ABSTRACT
Aspects of the invention include host cells that are engineered to produce benzylisoquinoline
alkaloids (BlAs). The host cells include heterologous coding sequences for a variety of enzymes
involved in synthetic pathways from starting compounds to BIAs of the host cell. The heterologous
coding sequences may be derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell and
multiple copies of the heterologous coding sequences may be present in the host cells. In some
embodiments, the host cell is selected from a reticuline-producing host cell, a sanguinarine
precursor-producing host cell, a protoberberine-producing host cell, a thebaine-producing host cell
and an opiate-producing host cell. Also provided are methods of producing the BIAs of interest by
culturing the host cells under culture conditions that promote activity of enzymes encoded by the
heterologous coding sequences of the host cells. Aspects of the invention further include
compositions, e.g., host cells, starting compounds and kits, etc., that find use in methods of the
invention.

      BENZYLISOQUINOLINE ALKALOIDS                    (BIA) PRODUCING MICROBES,
                  AND METHODS OF MAKING AND USING THE SAME
           The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
   Application 2014228241, which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/788,560, filed 15 March 2013, which are hereby incorporated by reference.
 5                                    GOVERNMENT RIGHTS
           This invention was made with Government support under contract no. 1066100
   awarded by the National Science Foundation and under contract no. AT007886 awarded by
   the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.
10                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. § 119 (e), this application claims priority to the filing date of
   United States Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/788,560 filed on March 15, 2013;
   the disclosure of which application is herein incorporated by reference.
                                          INTRODUCTION
15          Benzylisoquinoline alkaloids (BIAs) are a large group of secondary metabolites from
   plants and other organisms. These molecules have therapeutic functions in the human
   body, ranging from the established analgesic and antitussive properties of morphine and
   codeine, to novel activities against cancer and infection observed for molecules such as
   berberine and sanguinarine. Supply of all these BIA molecules so that they are available to
20 researchers and physicians is of interest. The number of synthetic reactions and
   requirements for selective stereochemistry means that chemical synthesis of BIAs is low
   yielding and not a viable means for large-scale production. Instead, for the widely used
   drugs codeine and morphine, the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) has been bred and
   developed as a production crop. Intermediates in morphine biosynthesis that find use as
25 drugs and drug precursors do not accumulate because the plant metabolism is evolved to
   maximize pathway flux to the final opioids. Even for end product metabolites like morphine,
   accumulation occurs only within specialized cells in the buds and vascular tissue and
   requires harsh chemical processing of harvested plant material during the extraction
   process, which typically yields less than 2% morphine by dry weight.
30
                                            SUMMARY
           Aspects of the invention include host cells that are engineered to produce
   benzylisoquinoline alkaloids (BlAs). The host cells include heterologous coding sequences
   for a variety of enzymes involved in synthetic pathways from starting compounds to BIAs of
35 the host cell. The heterologous coding sequences may be derived from a different source
                                                   1

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   organism as compared to the host cell and multiple copies of the heterologous coding
   sequences may be present in the host cells. In some embodiments, the host cell is selected
   from a reticuline-producing host cell, a sanguinarine precursor-producing host cell, a
   protoberberine-producing host cell, a thebaine-producing host cell and an opiate-producing
 5 host cell. Also provided are methods of producing the BIAs of interest by culturing the host
   cells under culture conditions that promote activity of enzymes encoded by the heterologous
   coding sequences of the host cells. Aspects of the invention further include compositions,
   e.g., host cells, starting compounds and kits, etc., that find use in methods of the invention.
10                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The invention is best understood from the following detailed description when read
   in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is emphasized that, according to common
   practice, the various features of the drawings are not to-scale. On the contrary, the
   dimensions of the various features are arbitrarily expanded or reduced for clarity. Included
15 in the drawings are the following figures.
           Figure 1 depicts the in vivo methylation of norlaudanosoline by methyltransf erases
   from P. somniferum and Thalictrum flavum with detection of methylation products by liquid
   chromatography-mass spectrometry (LCMS).
           Figure 2 depicts alternative methylation routes to reticuline from norlaudanosoline.
20         Figure 3 depicts alternative methylation routes to reticuline from norcoclaurine.
           Figure 4 depicts the biosynthetic steps to produce sanguinarine from reticuline.
           Figure 5 depicts a biosynthetic pathway of interest from reticuline to berberine.
           Figure 6 depicts the effect of episomal gene copy number and expression of various
   cytochrome P450-NADPH reductase enzymes on protoberberine production in yeast
25 cultures.
           Figure 7 depicts the microbial production of berberine from norlaudanosoline.
           Figure 8 depicts a biosynthetic pathway from reticuline to thebaine or its products.
           Figure 9 depicts the results of combinations of salutaridine reductase (SaIR) and
   salutaridinol 7-0-acetyltransferase (SaIAT) variants in thebaine
30 producing strains.
           Figure 10 depicts a design for a genetic construct which enhances promoter activity
   and prevents instability of two genes sharing sequence similarity, namely T60DM and
   CODM.
           Figure 11 depicts a route for engineering protoberberine and protopine alkaloid
35 biosynthesis in S. cerevisiae from the precursor molecule norlaudanosoline via the branch
   point intermediate reticuline. The final engineered protopine production strain contains 11
   heterologous expression cassettes (seven integrated enzymes and four enzymes
                                                  2

    WO 2014/143744                                                        PCT/US2014/027833
   expressed from a yeast artificial chromosome), including Cytochrome P450s (EcSTS,
   PsMSH, EcCFS), Cytochrome P450 reductases (ATR1) and other enzyme class (Ps60MT,
   PsCNMT, Ps4'OMT, PsBBE, PsTNMT).
            Figure 12 depicts the microbial production of (S)-cheilanthifoline. (a) Schematic
 5 depicting the transformation of norlaudanosoline to (S)-cheilanthifoline. (b) LC-MS analysis
   of growth media of yeast strains fed with norlaudanosoline, showing the vector control strain
   (left) produces scoulerine (peak 3, m/z=328 ). When the EcCFS enzyme is expressed
   (right), the metabolite cheilanthifoline is detected (m/z=326, peak 4), confirmed by MS-MS
   fragmentation (below). (c) (S)-cheilanthifoline production with various enzyme variant and
10 cytochrome P450 NADPH reductase partner pairing. (d) P450 expression level results in
   distinct ER morphology. EcCFS C-terminally tagged with GFP on high copy (top) or low
   copy (middle)     plasmids localize to the       endoplasmic reticulum,   but show distinct
   morphologies of ER proliferation. Wild type ER (no heterologous P450 expressed) is shown
   for comparison (bottom). Percentages indicate GFP positive proportion of the yeast. (e)
15 Stable expression of CFS improves cheilanthifoline production and conversion efficiency of
   scoulerine. (f) Promoter choice affects CFS activity. EcCFS expressed from a low copy
   plasmid with URA selection under the control of 5 different promoters.
            Figure 13 depicts optimization of (S)-stylopine production. (A) Schematic depicting
   the transformation of norlaudanosoline to (S)-stylopine. (B) LC-MS analysis of growth media
20 of yeast strains fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline, showing vector control strain produces
   cheilanthifoline (peak 4, m/z=326). When the EcSTS enzyme is expressed, stylopine is
   detected (peak 5, m/z=324) by comparison to standard. (C) Stylopine production varies with
   the combination of the species variants of CFS and STS, expressed from separate low copy
   plasmids. (D) Growth of the engineered yeast strains at 25*C improves STS activity. (E)
25 Gene copy number of CFS and STS affects stylopine production.
            Figure 14 depicts engineering of a heterologous protopine biosynthesis pathway. (A)
   Schematic depicting the transformation of norlaudanosoline to protopine. (B) LC-MS
   analysis of growth media of yeast strains fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline showing the vector
   control strain produces stylopine (peak 5, m/z=324). When the TNMT enzyme is expressed,
30 the metabolite cis-N-methylstylopine is detected (m/z=338, peak 6) as confirmed by MS
   MS fragmentation. (C) When MSH is added, protopine is detected (m/z=354), as confirmed
   by comparison to a standard and MS-MS fragmentation.
            Figure 15 depicts the engineering of a heterologous morphine biosynthesis pathway
   in yeast, including transformations of thebaine by the morphine biosynthesis enzymes
35 thebaine 6-O-demethylase (T60DM), codeine O-demethylase (CODM), and codeinone
   reductase (COR) from opium poppy P. somniferum. Two routes to morphine which pass
   through intermediates codeinone and codeine (route i) and oripavine and morphinone (route
                                                   3

     WO 2014/143744                                                      PCT/US2014/027833
   ii). Additionally, a newly-identified route to neomorphine (iii), demonstrating a broader
   substrate range for COR and CODM.
           Figure 16 depicts methods for (a) engineering the host yeast cell and (b) titrating
   additives in the culture medium to enhance morphine production by providing 2
 5 oxoglutarate as a co-substrate for the morphine biosynthesis pathway.
           Figure 17 depicts a design to alter gene copy number to increase pathway flux to
   morphine. Titers of the target product morphine (black bars) and non-target neomorphine
   (grey bars) were analyzed from strains harboring different numbers of copies of T60DM,
   COR1.3, and CODM. The culture medium was analyzed by LC-MS for opiate production
10 after 96 h growth in deep-well plates with 1 mM thebaine. Each strain expressed one copy
   of T6ODM, COR1.3, and CODM, on a pYES1L vector. Additional gene copies were
   integrated into the host cell genome . The control strain expressing one copy of each gene
   from the pYES1 L vector (gene ratio 1:1:1) produced an intermediate level of morphine and
   is indicated in the graph by a broken line. Error bars show ±1 SD of three biological
15 replicates.
           Figure 18 depicts a spatial engineering approach to improve pathway specificity for
   morphine. (a) Schematic depicting the rationale for using a spatial engineering approach
   based on enzyme delocalization to improve pathway specificity for the target product
   morphine. Localizing COR1.3 to an organelle can isolate this enzyme from the non-target
20 substrate neopinone (produced by cytoplasmic T60DM activity) and allow additional time
   for the intervening spontaneous isomerization of neopinone to the target substrate
   codeinone to occur. In such a scheme the heterologous pathway is divided into two parts:
   (1) cytoplasmic T60DM (circle) converts thebaine to neopinone, which subsequently
   rearranges to codeinone at an unknown rate; and as a result (2) isolated COR1.3 (circle)
25 has greater access to codeinone than neopinone and converts this substrate to codeine,
   which is then irreversibly demethylated by CODM (circle) to morphine. The overall effect of
   this localization scheme is to direct pathway flux toward the target end-product morphine.
   As a design consideration for COR1.3 localization, the enzyme may be directed to an
   organelle in one of three configurations: free within the organelle lumen, membrane
30 localized with the enzyme extending into the cytoplasm, or membrane localized with the
   enzyme extending into the organelle lumen. (b) An organelle routing toolkit allows for
   modular routing of proteins to specified organelles in the yeast host cell. A set of modular
   localization tags (ER]: SEQ ID NO:1, ER2: SEQ ID NO:2, ER3: SEQ ID NO:3 and 4, V1:
   SEQ ID NO:5, PM1: SEQ ID NO:6, and MT1: SEQ ID NO:7) was designed to fuse to any
35 enzyme via a 7 amino acid linker of either GlyeSerThr (SEQ ID NO:8) at the N-terminus or
   ProGly 6 (SEQ ID NO:9) at the C-terminus. To validate the tags, each was fused to the
   fluorescent protein GFP and imaged in live yeast cells. Organelle markers KAR2-DsRed
                                                 4

    WO 2014/143744                                                       PCT/US2014/027833
   HDEL (SEQ ID NO:4) and COX4-mCherry were included in the organelle routing toolkit as
   ER3 and MT1, respectively. Untagged COR1.3 (COR1.3-GFP) localized to the cytoplasm in
   yeast cells. Scale bars, 4 pm.
           Figure 19 illustrates that the organelle routing toolkit may be used to localize the
 5 heterologous COR1.3 enzyme to yeast organelles to enhance titer and selectivity for
   morphine. Localized COR1.3 variants were expressed together with untagged T60DM and
   CODM in a yeast host cell. Strains were cultured in optimized media with 1 mM thebaine,
   grown for 96 h, and culture medium analyzed for morphine (black bars) and neomorphine
   (grey bars) by LC-MS.
10         Figure 20 depicts expansion of the opiate biosynthetic pathway in engineered yeast
   strains by incorporation of bacterial enzymes to allow for the biological synthesis of semi
   synthetic opioids. Schematic depicting the extended transformations of thebaine in yeast by
   incorporating morA, morphine dehydrogenase, and morB, morphine reductase, from
   Pseudomonas putida M1 0 into the heterologous pathway.
15         Figure 21 depicts optimized yeast strains for the production of diverse opioids. (a)
   Total opioid molecule concentration in the culture medium after closed-batch fermentation.
   Yeast strains CSY950, CSY951, and CSY952 (Table 4) were optimized for the production
   of morphine, hydromorphone, and hydrocodone/oxycodone, respectively. The indicated
   strains were cultured in closed batch fermentations in media supplemented with 1 mM
20 thebaine (equivalent to 311 mg/L). Culture medium was analyzed at the end of the
   fermentation for a panel of opioids through LC-MS. (b) Cell density and concentrations of
   key opioids (hydrocodone, dihydrocodeine, and oxycodone) as a function of time for the
   fermentation of yeast strain CSY952. At indicated time points, samples were taken, diluted,
   and analyzed for cell density through spectrometry and opioid production through LC-MS.
25         Figure 22 depicts liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LCMS)
   analysis of metabolites secreted into the culture medium by an engineered yeast strain. The
   strain expresses Papaver somniferum T60DM, COR1.3 and CODM and was cultured for 96
   hours in the presence of thebaine. The LCMS peaks 1-5 correspond to the MS2
   fragmentation patterns for codeinone, codeine, neopine, morphine and neomorphine.
30         Figure 23 depicts LCMS analysis of metabolites secreted into the culture medium by
   engineered yeast strains expressing enzymes from P. somniferum and P. putida M10.
   Strain CSY946 (expressing T60DM and morB) and CSY945 (expressing T60DM, CODM,
   morA amd morB) were cultured for 96 hours in the presence of thebaine. The LCMS peaks
   6-11 correspond to hydrocodone, oxycodone, hydromorphone, dihydrocodeine, 14
35 hydroxycodeine, and dihydromorphine.
                                                  5

    WO 2014/143744                                                             PCT/US2014/027833
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            As summarized above, aspects of the invention include host cells that are
   engineered to produce benzylisoquinoline alkaloids (BlAs). The host cells include
   heterologous coding sequences for a variety of enzymes involved in synthetic pathways
 5 from starting compounds to BIAs of the host cell. In some embodiments, the host cell is
   selected from a reticuline-producing host cell, a sanguinarine precursor-producing host cell,
   a protoberberine-producing host cell, a thebaine-producing host cell and an opiate
   producing host cell. Also provided are methods of producing the BIAs of interest by culturing
   the host cells under culture conditions that promote expression of enzymes encoded by the
10 heterologous coding sequences of the host cells.
            Before the present invention is described in greater detail, it is to be understood that
   this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described, as such may, of course,
   vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
15 describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope
   of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.
            Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening value, to
   the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise, between
   the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that
20 stated range, is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these
   smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also
   encompassed within the invention, subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated
   range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits, ranges excluding either or
   both of those included limits are also included in the invention.
25          Certain ranges are presented herein with numerical values being preceded by the
   term "about." The term "about" is used herein to provide literal support for the exact number
   that it precedes, as well as a number that is near to or approximately the number that the
   term precedes. In determining whether a number is near to or approximately a specifically
   recited number, the near or approximating unrecited number may be a number which, in the
30 context in which it is presented, provides the substantial equivalent of the specifically recited
   number.
            Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
35 described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention,
   representative illustrative methods and materials are now described.
            All publications and patents cited in this specification are herein incorporated by
                                                     6

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and individually
   indicated to be incorporated by reference and are incorporated herein by reference to
   disclose and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the
   publications are cited. The citation of any publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing
 5 date and should not be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled
   to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further, the dates of publication
   provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be
   independently confirmed.
           It is noted that, as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a",
10 "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is
   further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such, this
   statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as
   "solely," "only" and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements, or use of a
   "negative" limitation.
15         As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure, each of
   the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and
   features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the
   other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present
   invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any
20 other order which is logically possible.
   BENzYLISOQUINOLINE ALKALOIDS (BIAS)
           Aspects of the present invention include host cells which produce compounds that
   are characterized as benzylisoquinoline alkaloids (BlAs), as well as biosynthetic precursors,
25 intermediates, and metabolites thereof. A variety of BIAs, biosynthetic precursors,
   intermediates, and metabolites thereof may be produced by the subject host cells, including
   but not limited to reticuline, sanguinarine, a protoberberine, berberine, a
   benzophenanthridine alkaloid, thebaine, an opiate compound, cheilanthifoline, stylopine,
   cis-N-methylstylopine, salutaridinol, salutaridinol-7-O-acetate, protopine and
30 dihydrosanguinarine, (S)-canadine, oripavine, codeinone, neopine, neomorphine, morphine,
   codeine, hydromorphone, hydrocodone, oxycodone, oxymorphone, dihydrocodeine, 14
   hydroxycodeine and dihydromorphine.
           The synthetic pathways generated in the host cells may start with any convenient
   compound(s). Starting compounds of interest include, but are not limited to, laudanosoline,
35 methyl laudanosoline, norlaudanosoline, methyl norlaudanosoline, norcoclaurine,
   salutaridine, reticuline, tyramine, dopamine, 4-HPA, 4-HPPA, coclaurine, N
   methylcoclaurine, 3'-hydroxy-N-methylcoclaurine, scoulerine, tetrahydrocolumbamine,
                                                    7

    WO 2014/143744                                                             PCT/US2014/027833
   canadine, laudanine, sanguinarine, thebaine, morphine, codeine, codeinone and dimethyl
   tetrahydoisoquinoline, e.g., 6,7-dimethyl-1 -2-3-4-tetrahydroisoquinoline or another
   compound that may or may not be normally present in the endogenous BIA pathway. In
   certain embodiments, the starting compound is reticuline, norlaudanosoline or
 5 norcoclaurine. Thus, the starting material may be non-naturally occurring or the starting
   material may be naturally occurring. Other compounds may also be used as the starting
   material in the desired synthetic pathway, based upon the synthetic pathway present in the
   host cell. The source of the starting material may be from the host cell itself, e.g., tyrosine,
   or the starting material may be added or supplemented to the host cell from an outside
10 source. For example, if the host cells are growing in liquid culture (an in vivo environment),
   the cell media may be supplemented with the starting material, e.g., tyrosine or
   norlaudanosoline, which is transported into the cells and converted into the desired
   products.
15 HosT CELLS
             As summarized above, one aspect of the invention is a host cell that produces one
   or more BIAs. Any convenient type of host cell may be utilized in producing the subject BIA
   producing cells, see, e.g., US2008/0176754, the disclosure of which is incorporated by
   reference in its entirety. In some cases, the host cell is yeast. In some instances the host
20 cell is from a strain of yeast engineered to produce a BIA of interest. In some embodiments,
   the host cell is selected from a reticuline-producing host cell, a sanguinarine precursor
   producing host cell, a protoberberine-producing host cell, a thebaine-producing host cell
   and an opiate-producing host cell.
             Any convenient cells may be utilized in the subject host cells and methods. In some
25 cases, the host cells are non-plant cells. In certain cases, the host cells are insect cells,
   mammalian cells, bacterial cells or yeast cells. Host cells of interest include, but are not
   limited to, bacterial cells, such as Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, Streptomyces and
   Salmonella typhimuium cells and insect cells such as Drosophila melanogasterS2 and
   Spodoptera frugiperda Sf9 cells. In some embodiments, the host cells are yeast cells or E.
30 coli cells. In certain embodiments, the yeast cells can be of the species Saccharomyces
   cerevisiae (S. cerevisiae). Yeast is of interest as a host cell because cytochrome P450
   proteins, which are involved in some biosynthetic pathways of interest, are able to fold
   properly into the endoplasmic reticulum membrane so that their activity is maintained. Yeast
   strains of interest that find use in the invention include, but are not limited to, those
35 described by Smolke, et al., in US2008/0176754, the disclosure of which is incorporated by
   reference in its entirety, such as CEN.PK (Genotype: MA Ta/a ura3-52/ura3-52 trpl
   289/trp 1-289 leu2-3_ 112/leu2-3_ 112 his3 L 1/his3 L1 MAL2-8C/MAL2-8C SUC2/SUC2),
                                                     8

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   S288C, W303, D273-10B, X2180, A364A, 71278B, AB972, SK1 and FL100. In certain
   cases, the yeast strain is any of S288C (MATa; SUC2 mal mel gal2 CUP1 flo1 flo8-1 hap1),
   BY4741 (MATa; his3A1; leu2AO; met] 5A0; ura3AO), BY4742 (MATa; his3A1; leu2AO;
   lys2AO; ura3AO), BY4743 (MATa/MATa; his3A1/his3A1; leu2AO/leu2AO; met15A0/MET15;
 5 LYS2/lys2A0; ura3AO/ura3AO), and WAT1 1 or W(R), derivatives of the W303-B strain
   (MATa; ade2-1; his3-11, -15; leu2-3,-112; ura3-1 canR; cyr+) which express the
   Arabidopsis thaliana NADPH-P450 reductase ATR1 and the yeast NADPH-P450 reductase
   CPR1, respectively. In another embodiment, the yeast cell is W303alpha (MATa; his3-11,15
   trp1-1 leu2-3 ura3-1 ade2-1). The identity and genotype of additional yeast strains of
10 interest can be found at EUROSCARF (web.uni
   frankfurt.de/fbl 5/mikro/euroscarf/colindex.html).
           The term "host cells," as used herein, are cells that harbor one or more heterologous
   coding sequences which encode activity(ies) that enable the host cells to produce desired
   BIA(s), e.g., as described herein. The heterologous coding sequences could be integrated
15 stably into the genome of the host cells, or the heterologous coding sequences can be
   transiently inserted into the host cell. As used herein, the term "heterologous coding
   sequence" is used to indicate any polynucleotide that codes for, or ultimately codes for, a
   peptide or protein or its equivalent amino acid sequence, e.g., an enzyme, that is not
   normally present in the host organism and can be expressed in the host cell under proper
20 conditions. As such, "heterologous coding sequences" includes multiple copies of coding
   sequences that are normally present in the host cell, such that the cell is expressing
   additional copies of a coding sequence that are not normally present in the cells. The
   heterologous coding sequences can be RNA or any type thereof, e.g., mRNA, DNA or any
   type thereof, e.g., cDNA, or a hybrid of RNA/DNA. Examples of coding sequences include,
25 but are not limited to, full-length transcription units that comprise such features as the
   coding sequence, introns, promoter regions, 3'-UTRs and enhancer regions.
           As used herein, the term "heterologous coding sequences" also includes the coding
   portion of the peptide or enzyme, i.e., the cDNA or mRNA sequence, of the peptide or
   enzyme, as well as the coding portion of the full-length transcriptional unit, i.e., the gene
30 comprising introns and exons, as well as "codon optimized" sequences, truncated
   sequences or other forms of altered sequences that code for the enzyme or code for its
   equivalent amino acid sequence, provided that the equivalent amino acid sequence
   produces a functional protein. Such equivalent amino acid sequences can have a deletion
   of one or more amino acids, with the deletion being N-terminal, C-terminal or internal.
35 Truncated forms are envisioned as long as they have the catalytic capability indicated
   herein. Fusions of two or more enzymes are also envisioned to facilitate the transfer of
   metabolites in the pathway, provided that catalytic activities are maintained.
                                                     9

    WO 2014/143744                                                               PCT/US2014/027833
            Operable fragments, mutants or truncated forms may be identified by modeling
   and/or screening. This is made possible by deletion of, for example, N-terminal, C-terminal
   or internal regions of the protein in a step-wise fashion, followed by analysis of the resulting
   derivative with regard to its activity for the desired reaction compared to the original
 5 sequence. If the derivative in question operates in this capacity, it is considered to constitute
   an equivalent derivative of the enzyme proper.
           Aspects of the present invention also relate to heterologous coding sequences that
   code for amino acid sequences that are equivalent to the native amino acid sequences for
   the various enzymes. An amino acid sequence that is "equivalent" is defined as an amino
10 acid sequence that is not identical to the specific amino acid sequence, but rather contains
   at least some amino acid changes (deletions, substitutions, inversions, insertions, etc.) that
   do not essentially affect the biological activity of the protein as compared to a similar activity
   of the specific amino acid sequence, when used for a desired purpose. The biological
   activity refers to, in the example of a decarboxylase, its catalytic activity. Equivalent
15 sequences are also meant to include those which have been engineered and/or evolved to
   have properties different from the original amino acid sequence. Mutable properties of
   interest include catalytic activity, substrate specificity, selectivity, stability, solubility,
   localization, etc. In certain embodiments, an "equivalent" amino acid sequence contains at
   least 80%-99% identity at the amino acid level to the specific amino acid sequence, in some
20 cases at least about 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94% and more in
   certain cases, at least 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% and 99% identity, at the amino acid level. In
   some cases, the amino acid sequence may be identical but the DNA sequence is altered
   such as to optimize codon usage for the host organism, for example.
           The host cells may also be modified to possess one or more genetic alterations to
25 accommodate the heterologous coding sequences. Alterations of the native host genome
   include, but are not limited to, modifying the genome to reduce or ablate expression of a
   specific protein that may interfere with the desired pathway. The presence of such native
   proteins may rapidly convert one of the intermediates or final products of the pathway into a
   metabolite or other compound that is not usable in the desired pathway. Thus, if the activity
30 of the native enzyme were reduced or altogether absent, the produced intermediates would
   be more readily available for incorporation into the desired product. In some cases, if the
   host cell is a yeast cell and the desired pathway requires the cosubstrate 2-oxoglutarate,
   the expression of the native endogenous glutamate and/or 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase
   enzymes may be may be reduced or ablated, which could convert the desired cosubstrate
35 (2-oxoglutarate) into glutamate or succinyl-CoA, respectively.. In some instances, where
   ablation of expression of a protein may be of interest, is in proteins involved in the
   pleiotropic drug response, including, but not limited to, ATP-binding cassette (ABC)
                                                    10

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   transporters, multidrug resistance (MDR) pumps and associated transcription factors, These
   proteins are involved in the export of BIA molecules into the culture medium, thus deletion
   controls the export of the compounds into the media, making them more available for
   incorporation into the desired product. In some embodiments, host cell gene deletions of
 5 interest include genes associated with the unfolded protein response and endoplasmic
   reticulum (ER) proliferation. Such gene deletions may lead to improved BIA production. The
   expression of cytochrome P450s may induce the unfolded protein response and may cause
   the ER to proliferate. Deletion of genes associated with these stress responses may control
   or reduce overall burden on the host cell and improve pathway performance. Genetic
10 alterations may also include modifying the promoters of endogenous genes to increase
   expression and/or introducing additional copies of endogenous genes. Examples of this
   include the construction/use of strains which overexpress the endogenous yeast NADPH
   P450 reductase CPR1 to increase activity of heterologous P450 enzymes. In addition,
   endogenous enzymes such as ARC8, 9, and 10, which are directly involved in the synthesis
15 of intermediate metabolites, may also be overexpressed.
            Heterologous coding sequences of interest include but are not limited to sequences
   that encode enzymes, either wild-type or equivalent sequences, that are normally
   responsible for the production of BIAs in plants. In some cases, the enzymes for which the
   heterologous sequences code can be any of the enzymes in the BIA pathway, and can be
20 from any convenient source. In some instances, cheilanthifoline synthase (CFS; EC        .14.
   21,2) is found in at least Papaver somniferum, Eschscholzia californica, and Argemone
   mexicana and is known to synthesize (S)-cheilanthifoline from (S)-scoulerine.. The choice
   and number of enzymes encoded by the heterologous coding sequences for the particular
   synthetic pathway may be selected based upon the desired product. In certain
25 embodiments, the host cells of the present invention may comprise 1 or more, 2 or more, 3
   or more, 4 or more, 5 or more, 6 or more, 7 or more, 8 or more, 9 or more, 10 or more, 11 or
   more, 12 or more, 13 or more, 14 or more, or even 15 or more heterologous coding
   sequences, such as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15 heterologous coding
   sequences.
30          Unless otherwise noted, the heterologous coding sequences are as reported in
   GENBANK. A list of enzymes of interest is shown in Tables 2 and 3. The host cells of the
   present invention may comprise any combination of the listed enzymes, from any source.
   Unless otherwise indicated, Accession numbers in Table 3 refer to GenBank. Some
   accession numbers refer to the Saccharomyces genome database (SGD) which is available
35 on the world-wide web at www.yeastgenome.org.
            In some embodiments, the host cell (e.g., a yeast strain) is engineered for selective
   production of a BIA of interest by localizing one or more enzymes to a compartment in the
                                                  11

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   cell. In one embodiment of the invention illustrated in Figure 18, an enzyme may be
   localized to the yeast endoplasmic reticulum by fusing an ER2 targeting sequence to the C
   terminus of the protein.
            In some cases, an enzyme may be located in the host cell such that the compound
 5 produced by this enzyme spontaneously rearranges, or is converted by another enzyme to
   a desirable metabolite before reaching a localized enzyme that may convert the compound
   into an undesirable metabolite. The spatial distance between two enzymes may be selected
   to prevent one of the enzymes from acting directly on a compound to make an undesirable
   metabolite, and restrict production of undesirable end products (e.g., an undesirable opioid
10 by-product). In certain embodiments, any of the enzymes described herein, either singularly
   or together with a second enzyme, may be localized to any convenient compartment in the
   host cell, including but not limited to, an organelle, endoplasmic reticulum, golgi, vacuole,
   nucleus, plasma membrane or the periplasm (see, e.g., Figure 18).
            In some embodiments, the host cell includes one or more of the enzymes that
15 comprise a localization tag. Any convenient tags may be utilized. In some cases, the
   localization tag is a peptidic sequence that is attached at the N-terminal and or C-terminal of
   the enzyme. Any convenient methods may be utilized for attaching a tag to the enzyme.
            In some cases, the localization tag is derived from an endogenous yeast protein.
   Such tags may provide route to a variety of yeast organelles: the endoplasmic reticulum
20 (ER), mitochondria (MT), plasma membrane (PM), and vacuole (V).
            In certain embodiments, the tag is an ER routing tag (e.g., ER1). In certain
   embodiments, the tag is a vacuole tag (e.g., V1). In certain embodiments, the tag is a
   plasma membrane tag (e.g., P1). In certain instances, the tag includes or is derived from, a
   transmembrane domain from within the tail-anchored class of proteins.
25          In some embodiments, the localization tag locates the enzyme on the outside of an
   organelle. In certain embodiments, the localization tag locates the enzyme on the inside of
   an organelle.
            In some instances, the expression of each type of enzyme is increased through
   additional gene copies (i.e., multiple copies), which increases intermediate accumulation
30 and ultimately BIA and/or BIA precursor production. Embodiments of the present invention
   include increased BIA production in a host cell through simultaneous expression of multiple
   species variants of a single or multiple enzymes. In some cases, additional gene copies of a
   single or multiple enzymes are included in the host cell. Any convenient methods may be
   utilized in including multiple copies of a heterologous coding sequence for an enzyme in the
35 host cell.
            In some embodiments, the host cell includes multiple copies of a heterologous
   coding sequence for an enzyme, such as 2 or more, 3 or more, 4 or more, 5 or more, or
                                                   12

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   even 10 or more copies. In certain embodiments, the host cell include multiple copies of
   heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes, such as multiple copies of two or
   more, three or more, four or more, etc. In some cases, the multiple copies of the
   heterologous coding sequence for an enzyme are derived from two or more different source
 5 organisms as compared to the host cell. For example, the host cell may include multiple
   copies of one heterologous coding sequence, where each of the copies is derived from a
   different source organism. As such, each copy may include some variations in explicit
   sequences based on inter-species differences of the enzyme of interest that is encoded by
   the heterologous coding sequence.
10         The engineered host cell medium may be sampled and monitored for the production
   of BIA compounds of interest. The BIA compounds may be observed and measured using
   any convenient methods. Methods of interest include, but are not limited to, LC-MS
   methods (e.g., as described herein) where a sample of interest is analyzed by comparison
   with a known amount of a standard compound. Identity may be confirmed, e.g., by m/z and
15 MS/MS fragmentation patterns, and quantitation or measurement of the compound may be
   achieved via LC trace peaks of know retention time and/or EIC MS peak analysis by
   reference to corresponding LC-MS analysis of a known amount of a standard of the
   compound.
20          Reticuline-producinci host cells
            Reticuline is the major branch point intermediate in the synthesis of BIAs and a high
   yield of this intermediate is of interest in engineering efforts to produce end products such
   as morphine, sanguinarine or berberine. In some cases, to produce reticuline from
   norlaudanosoline three enzymes are expressed in the host cell: norcoclaurine 6-0
25 methyltransferase (60MT; EC 2.1.1.128), coclaurine N- methyltransferase (CNMT;
   EC 2.1.1.140) and 3'hydroxy-N-methylcoclaurine 4'-0-methylase (4'OMT; EC 2.1.1.116). In
   general, the enzymes are derived from different source organisms as compared to the host
   cell. To produce reticuline from norcoclaurine, an additional cytochrome P450 enzyme, e.g.,
   CYP80B3 or CYP80B1 (EC 1.14.13.71), may be expressed with the three
30 methyltransferases. Engineering S. cerevisiae to produce reticuline may utilize any
   convenient optimization methods. In some instances, all combinations of the three
   methyltransferases from two or more species (e.g., P. somniferum and T. flavum) are
   expressed together to find the best reticuline producer. In another instance, the optimal
   combination of methyltransferases (all 3 from P. somniferum) may be integrated into the
35 yeast chromosome and the expression of each titrated without effecting yield of reticuline.
   The expression of the methyltransferase enzymes may be titrated up or down, and the
   methyltransferases may act sequentially, in concert or a combination of the two, on the
                                                    13

    WO 2014/143744                                                             PCT/US2014/027833
   substrates.
            Aspects of the invention include strains of S. cerevisiae with improved reticuline
   production through overexpression of 60MT, CNMT and/or 4'OMT genes from several
   different species. By improved or increased production is meant both the production of
 5 some amount of reticuline where the control has no reticuline production, as well as an
   increase of about 10% or more, such as about 20% or more, about 30% or more, about
   40% or more, about 50% or more, about 60% or more, about 80% or more, about 100% or
   more, such as 2-fold or more, such as 5-fold or more, including 10-fold or more in situations
   where the control has some reticuline production. Methyltransf erases from different species
10 have slightly different substrate specificities [Choi et al. (2002). J Biol Chem 277, 830-835;
   Liscombe et al. (2009). Plant J 60, 729-74; Morishige et al., (2000) J Biol Chem 275, 23398
   23405; Ounaroon et al. (2003) Plant J36, 808-819; Sato et al., (1994) Eur J Biochem 225,
   125-131]. When methyltransferases of different species origin are expressed together in a
   single strain, it is possible to take advantage of the varying substrate specificities and
15 increase flux through the multiple methylation pathways to increase the yield of reticuline. In
   some cases, species variants of the methyltransferases include, but are not limited to, P.
   somniferum, T. flavum and Coptisjaponica (Table 2). In certain cases, species variants of
   the methyltransf erases are derived from P. somniferum. In certain instances, species
   variants of the methyltransferases are derived from T. flavum. In some embodiments,
20 species variants of the methyltransferases are derived from C.japonica.
            In some embodiments, the host cell comprises two or more heterologous coding
   sequences for two or more methyltransferases selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT. In
   certain instances, the two or more methyltransf erases are derived from two or more
   different source organisms as compared to the host cell.
25          In some cases, the host cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for the
   methyltransferases 60MT and CNMT. In certain cases, the host cell comprises
   heterologous coding sequences for the methyltransf erases CNMT and 4'OMT.
            In some instances, the host cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for the
   methyltransf erases 60MT and 4'OMT.
30          In certain embodiments, the host cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for
   all of the methyltransf erases 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT.
            In some instances, the expression of each type of methyltransferase is increased
   through additional gene copies (i.e., multiple copies), which increases intermediate
   accumulation and ultimately reticuline production. Embodiments of the present invention
35 include increased reticuline production in a yeast strain through simultaneous expression of
   multiple species variants of a single or multiple methyltransf erases and incorporation of
   additional gene copies of a single or multiple methyltransferases.
                                                   14

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
            In some embodiments, the host cell include multiple copies of a methyltransferase,
   such as 2 or more, 3 or more, 4 or more, 5 or more, or even 10 or more copies. In certain
   embodiments, the host cell include multiple copies of one or more methyltransferases, such
   as multiple copies of two or more, three or more, four or more, etc. methyltransferases. In
 5 some cases, the multiple copies of the methyltransferase are derived from two or more
   different source organisms as compared to the host cell. For example, the host cell may
   include multiple copies of one heterologous coding sequence, where each of the copies is
   derived from a different source organism. As such, each copy may include some variations
   in explicit sequences based on inter-species differences of the enzyme of interest that is
10 encoded by the heterologous coding sequence.
            In some instances, the multiple copies are of a heterologous coding sequence for
   CNMT. In certain instances, two copies of a heterologous coding sequence for CNMT are
   included. In some instances, the multiple copies are of a heterologous coding sequence for
   60MT. In certain instances, two copies of a heterologous coding sequence for 60MT are
15 included. In some instances, the multiple copies are of a heterologous coding sequence for
   4'OMT. In certain instances, two copies of a heterologous coding sequence for 4'OMT are
   included.
            In some cases, the host cell is capable of producing an increased amount of
   reticuline from norcoclaurine relative to a control host cell that lacks multiple copies of the
20 one or more heterologous coding sequences for the one or more methyltransferase. In
   certain instances, the increased amount of reticuline is about 10% or more relative to the
   control host cell, such as about 20% or more, about 30% or more, about 40% or more,
   about 50% or more, about 60% or more, about 80% or more, about 100% or more, 2-fold or
   more, 5-fold or more, or even 10-fold or more relative to the control host cell.
25          In some cases, the host cell is capable of producing an increased amount of
   reticuline from norlaudonosoline relative to a control host cell that lacks multiple copies of
   the one or more heterologous coding sequences for the one or more methyltransferase. In
   certain instances, the increased amount of reticuline is about 10% or more relative to the
   control host cell, such as about 20% or more, about 30% or more, about 40% or more,
30 about 50% or more, about 60% or more, about 80% or more, about 100% or more, 2-fold or
   more, 5-fold or more, or even 10-fold or more relative to the control host cell.
            In some embodiments, the host cell is capable of producing a 10% or more yield of
   reticuline from norcoclaurine, such as 20% or more, 30% or more, 40% or more, 50% or
   more, 60% or more, 70% or more, 80% or more, or even 90% or more yield of reticuline
35 from norcoclaurine.
            In some embodiments, the host cell is capable of producing a 10% or more yield of
   reticuline from norlaudonosoline, such as 20% or more, 30% or more, 40% or more, 50% or
                                                  15

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   more, 60% or more, 70% or more, 80% or more, or even 90% or more yield of reticuline
   from norlaudonosoline.
            In certain embodiments, the host cell is an engineered strain that includes a
   biosynthetic pathway that incorporates any combination of the following alternative
 5 methylation routes and leads to increased production of reticuline. In some instances, the
   host cell is capable of producing reticuline from norlaudanosoline via a biosynthetic pathway
   of Figure 2. In certain embodiments, the host cell is capable of producing reticuline from
   norcoclaurine via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 3. In some cases, when the starting
   material of the pathway is norlaudanosoline (Figure 2, (1)), 60MT, CNMT and/or 4'OMT
10 may act on this compound to produce three distinctly methylated intermediates: BIA 2,
   which is initially methylated by 60MT, is then methylated by either CNMT or 4'OMT; BIA 3,
   which is initially methylated by CNMT, is then methylated by either 60MT or 4'OMT; BIA 4,
   which is initially methylated by 4'OMT, is then methylated by either 60MT or CNMT; BIA 5,
   which is previously methylated by 60MT and 4'OMT, is methylated by CNMT to produce
15 reticuline; BIA 6, which is previously methylated by 60MT and CNMT, is methylated by
   4'OMT to produce reticuline; and BIA 7, which is previously methylated by CNMT and
   4'OMT, is methylated by 60MT to produce reticuline.
            In some instances, when the starting material of the pathway is norcoclaurine,
   60MT or CNMT may act on this compound, to produce two distinctly methylated products
20 (Figure 3): BIA 10, which is initially methylated by 60MT, is then methylated by CNMT; BIA
   11, which is initially methylated by CNMT, is then methylated by 60MT. BIA 12, also known
   as N-methylcoclaurine, which is previously methylated by 60MT and CNMT, is then
   sequentially acted upon by CYP80B1 or CYP80B3 and 4'OMT to produce reticuline.
            In certain instances, the host cell is a yeast strain. In some cases, the yeast strain is
25 S. cerevisiae.
            Sanquinarine and Sanquinarine precursor-producinq host cells
            Aspects of the invention include host cells that produce protoberberine and
   benzophenanthridine alkaloids, including, but not limited to, cheilanthifoline, stylopine, cis
30 N-methylstylopine, scoulerine, protopine, dihydrosanguinarine and sanquinarine. Figure 4
   depicts a synthetic pathway present in embodiments of host cells according to
   embodiments of the present invention. Although the pathway may be longer, starting from
   norlaudanosoline, norcoclaurine or any other convenient BIAs, e.g., as shown in other
   figures, this particular pathway depiction begins with reticuline and ends with sanguinarine.
35 The pathway can include fewer enzymes than those displayed if the desired end result is
   one of the intermediates in the norlaudanosoline to sanguinarine pathway. The present
   invention includes biosynthetic pathways of multiple enzymatic steps, e.g., those catalyzed
                                                     16

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   by the enzymes BBE (EC 1.21.3.3 ), CFS (EC 1.14.21.2), CPR (EC 1.6.2.4), STS
   (EC 1.14.21.1), TNMT (EC2.1.1.122), MSH (EC 1.14.13.37), P6H (EC 1.14.13.55) and
   DBOX (EC 1.5.3.12), within an engineered yeast strain to produce a variety of
   protoberberine and benzophenanthridine compounds. In addition, the present invention
 5 includes tools and methods to optimize the production of protoberberine and
   benzophenanthridine compounds within the context of the engineered yeast strain.
           In some embodiments, the host cell is capable of producing sanguinarine or a
   sanguinarine precursor, wherein the host cell comprises one or more heterologous coding
   sequences for one or more enzymes selected from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH,
10 P6H and DBOX, wherein the one or more enzymes is derived from a different source
   organism as compared to the host cell. In certain embodiments, the sanguinarine precursor
   is a protoberberine or a benzophenanthridine alkaloid.
           In certain instances, the source organism is P. somniferum, E. californica,
   Arabidopsis thaliana, Papaver bracteatum or A. mexicana. In certain cases, the source
15 organism is P. somniferum. In some instances, the source organism is E. californica. In
   some instances, the source organism is A. thaliana. In certain embodiments, the source
   organism is P. bracteatum. In some cases, the source organism is A. mexicana.
           In some instances, the one or more enzymes is two or more enzymes that are
   derived from two or more different source organisms as compared to the host cell.
20         In some embodiments, the host cell comprises multiple copies of the one or more
   heterologous coding sequences. In certain embodiments, the multiple copies of the one or
   more heterologous coding sequences are derived from two or more different source
   organisms as compared to the host cell. For example, the host cell may include multiple
   copies of one heterologous coding sequence, where each of the copies is derived from a
25 different source organism. As such, each copy may include some variations in explicit
   sequences based on inter-species differences of the enzyme of interest that is encoded by
   the heterologous coding sequence.
           In some cases, the host cell comprises two or more, such as three or more, four or
   more, five or more, or even more, heterologous coding sequences for two or more enzymes
30 selected from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX.
           In certain instances, the host cell further comprises one or more gene deletions in
   comparison to a native host cell, wherein the one or more deleted genes is selected from
   IRE1, HAC1, OP1, INO1, IN02, IN03, PDR1, STB5, PDR3, PDR5, SNQ2, YOR1, TPO1,
   TPO2, TPO3, TPO4, PDR1 0, PDR1 1, PDR1 5, PDR1 6, PDR1 7, QDR1, QDR2, QDR3,
35 FLR1, AQR1, AQR2, and CIN5.
           In some cases, the host cell is a yeast strain (e.g., as described herein).
           In certain embodiments, the host cell is capable of producing the sanguinarine or
                                                    17

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   sanguinarine precursor from norlaudanosoline via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 4. In
   some instances, the host cell is capable of producing the sanguinarine or sanguinarine
   precursor from norlaudanosoline via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 11.
           In some instances, the host cell comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a
 5 BBE enzyme. The heterologous coding sequence for the BBE enzyme may be integrated
   into a host cell chromosome. In some instances, the host cell comprises a heterologous
   coding sequence for a CFS enzyme. In some instances, the host cell comprises a
   heterologous coding sequence for a CPR enzyme. In some instances, the host cell
   comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a STS enzyme. In some instances, the host
10 cell comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a TNMT enzyme. In some instances,
   the host cell comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a MSH enzyme. In some
   instances, the host cell comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a P6H enzyme. In
   some instances, the host cell comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a DBOX
   enzyme.
15         In some cases, the host cell is a yeast strain that produces scoulerine, where
   berberine bridge enzyme (BBE; EC 1.21.3.3) (e.g., from P. somniferum or E. californica) is
   expressed on a low copy construct (e.g., a low copy plasmid, YAC or chromosomally
   integrated) in the yeast strain with, e.g., Ps60MT, PsCNMT, and/or Ps4'OMT
   chromosomally integrated. Any convenient variants of the enzymes may be utilized, e.g.,
20 one of more of the enzyme variants depicted in Table 2.
           In some cases, the sanguinarine precursor is cheilanthifoline. In certain instances,
   the host cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for cheilanthifoline synthase (CFS;
   EC 1.14.21.2) and a cytochrome P450 NADPH reductase (CPR; EC 1.6.2.4) enzyme. In
   some instances, the CPR enzyme is an ATR enzyme, e.g., ATR1. In some instances, the
25 host cell is a yeast strain that produces cheilanthifoline, where cheilanthifoline synthase
   (CFS) (e.g., from E. californica (EcCFS), P. somniferum (PsCFS) and/or A. mexicana
   (AmCFS)) is expressed on a low copy construct (e.g., a low copy plasmid, YAC or
   chromosomally integrated) in the yeast strain with, e.g., Ps60MT, PsCNMT, Ps4'OMT,
   PsBBE and/or ATR1 chromosomally integrated. Any convenient variants of the enzymes
30 may be utilized, e.g., one of more of the enzyme variants depicted in Table 2.
           In some embodiments, the host cell produces stylopine, where stylopine synthase
   (STS; EC 1.14.21.1) (e.g., from E. californica (EcSTS), P. somniferum (PsSTS) and/or A.
   mexicana (AmSTS)) is expressed in the host cell on a low copy construct (e.g., a low copy
   plasmid, YAC or chromosomally integrated) in a cheilanthifoline producing strain. Any
35 convenient variants of the enzymes may be utilized, e.g., one of more of the enzyme
   variants depicted in Table 2.
           In certain cases, the host cells produces cis-N-methylstylopine, where
                                                   18

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   tetrahydroprotoberberine N-methyltransferase (TNMT; EC 2.1.1.122) (e.g., from P.
   somniferum (PsTNMT) or E californica (EcTNMT)) is expressed in the host cell from a low
   copy construct (e.g., a low copy plasmid, YAC or chromosomally integrated) in a stylopine
   producing strain. Any convenient variants of the enzymes may be utilized, e.g., one of more
 5 of the enzyme variants depicted in Table 2.
           In some instances, the host cells produce protopine. In certain cases, cis-N
   methylstylopine 14-hydroxylase (MSH, EC 1.14.13.37) (e.g., from P. somniferum (PsMSH))
   is expressed in the host cell from a low copy construct (e.g., a low copy plasmid, YAC or
   chromosomally integrated) in a cis-N-methylstylopine producing strain. In certain instances,
10 the host cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for a TNMT and a MSH enzyme.
   Any convenient variants of the enzymes may be utilized, e.g., one of more of the enzyme
   variants depicted in Table 2.
           In some cases, the host cell produces dihydrosanguinarine, where protopine 6
   hydroxylase (P6H; EC 1.14.13.55) (e.g., from E californica (EcP6H) or P. somniferum
15 (PsP6H)) is expressed in the host cell from a low copy construct (e.g., a low copy plasmid,
   YAC or chromosomally integrated) in a protopine producing strain. Any convenient variants
   of the enzymes may be utilized, e.g., one of more of the enzyme variants depicted in Table
   2.
           In some cases, the host cell produces sanguinarine, where
20 dihydrobenzophenanthridine oxidase (DBOX; EC 1.5.3.12) (e.g., from P. somniferum
   (PsDBOX)) is expressed in the host cell from a low copy construct (e.g., a low copy
   plasmid, YAC or chromosomally integrated) in a dihydrosanguinarine producing strain. Any
   convenient variants of the enzymes may be utilized, e.g., one of more of the enzyme
   variants depicted in Table 2.
25         In some embodiments, the host cell is an engineered strain that produces more
   cheilanthifoline than a control strain, where additional copies of CFS are expressed in the
   engineered strain. By more is meant both the production of some amount of cheilanthifoline
   where the control has no cheilanthifoline production, as well as an increase of about 10% or
   more, such as about 20% or more, about 30% or more, about 40% or more, about 50% or
30 more, about 60% or more, about 80% or more, about 100% or more, such as 2-fold or
   more, such as 5-fold or more, including 10-fold or more in situations where the control has
   some cheilanthifoline production. Varying the expression level of a cytochrome P450 of
   interest, through gene copy number, promoter strength or promoter regulation may improve
   the production of target compounds. In certain cases, expression from a high copy plasmid
35 does not result in measureable cheilanthifoline production. In certain instances, when one
   or multiple copies of the CFS gene are expressed in a host cell from low copy constructs,
   cheilanthifoline production is higher. In some embodiments, when more copies of CFS gene
                                                  19

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   are included in the host cell, the levels of cheilanthifoline are higher.
            In certain instances, to produce more stylopine, variants of enzymes CFS and STS
   from different species are expressed in combination in a host cell. Increased levels of
   stylopine may be observed by comparison of the engineered host cell with a control cell that
 5 does not include the desired expression of enzymes of interest. By increased is meant both
   the production of some amount of stylopine where the control has no stylopine production,
   as well as an increase of about 10% or more, such as about 20% or more, about 30% or
   more, about 40% or more, about 50% or more, about 60% or more, about 80% or more,
   about 100% or more, such as 2-fold or more, such as 5-fold or more, including 10-fold or
10 more in situations where the control has some stylopine production. For example, the
   measurement of stylopine production from different CFS variants expressed with different
   variants of STS is shown in Figure 13(c). Any convenient combinations of enzymes may be
   utilized to produce increased levels of stylopine.
            In some instances, to produce more cheilanthifoline, host cells (e.g., yeast strains)
15 are engineered to include chromosomally integrated NADPH cytochrome P450 reductases
   from a variety of species to optimize the activity of cytochrome P450s. For example, the
   measurement of cheilanthifoline production from various cheilanthifoline synthase enzymes
   expressed with variants of cytochrome P450 NADPH reductase enzymes may be
   performed. Any convenient combinations of these enzymes may be utilized to produce
20 increased levels of cheilanthifoline relative to a control.
            In certain cases, to produce more cheilanthifoline or stylopine, host cells (e.g., yeast
   strains) that overexpress cytochrome b5 are utilized to optimize the activity of cytochrome
   P450s. For example, the measurement of cheilanthifoline or stylopine production from host
   cells with and without cytochrome b5 overexpressed may be performed. In some cases, the
25 host cell overexpresses cytochrome b5 and produces an increased level of cheilanthifoline
   or stylopine relative to a control cell.
            In certain embodiments, to produce more protoberberine alkaloids, the host cell is
   cultured in conditions that provide for improved cytochrome P450 activity. Conditions of
   interest include, but are not limited to, growth at a reduced temperature (e.g., about 10'C,
30 about 15'C, about 200C, about 220C, about 250C, about 280C, about 300C, about 330C, or
   about 350C) and in a vessel that provides high aeration (e.g., a flask such as a baffled
   flask). For example, a variety of protoberberine alkaloids from host cells grown in different
   culture conditions may be measured. In certain embodiments, the hosts cells are incubated
   at reduced temperature (e.g., about 25"C) and under higher aeration conditions (e.g., in a
35 flask). Under such conditions, the enzymes levels and/or enzyme activity (e.g., production
   of cheilanthifoline and stylopine) may be increased relative to a control.
            In some embodiments, the host cells produce more protoberberine alkaloids where
                                                   20

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   the host cell is optimized by the deletion of genes associated with the unfolded protein
   response and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) proliferation to improve BIA production. Gene
   deletions of interest include, but are not limited to, IRE1, HAC1, OP11, INO1, IN02, and
   IN03 (e.g., Table 3. In some cases, the expression of cytochrome P450s induces the
 5 unfolded protein response and causes the ER to proliferate. Deletion of genes associated
   with these stress responses may control or reduce overall burden on the host cell and
   improve pathway performance. By more is meant both the production of some amount of
   protoberberine alkaloids where the control has no protoberberine alkaloids production, as
   well as an increase of about 10% or more, such as about 20% or more, about 30% or more,
10 about 40% or more, about 50% or more, about 60% or more, about 80% or more, about
   100% or more, such as 2-fold or more, such as 5-fold or more, including 10-fold or more in
   situations where the control has some protoberberine alkaloids production.
            In certain instances, the host cell comprises one or more heterologous or
   endogenous coding sequences for one or more proteins involved in transport of compounds
15 across the cell membrane. In certain cases, the one or more proteins involved in transport
   of compounds across the cell membrane is selected from PDR1, PDR5, SNQ2, YOR1,
   PDR3, CIN5, and PDR3.
            In certain embodiments, genes involved in the pleiotropic drug response, including,
   but not limited to, ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, multidrug resistance (MDR)
20 pumps and associated transcription factors, are deleted in the host cell to reduce the export
   of BIA molecules into the culture medium. Examples of genes include, but are not limited to,
   PDR1, STB5, PDR3, PDR5, SNQ2, YOR1, TPO1, TPO2, TPO3, TPO4, PDRI 0, PDR1 1,
   PDR15, PDR16, PDR17, QDR1, QDR2, QDR3, FLR1, AQR1, AQR2, and CIN5. Gene
   deletions include single deletions or multiple deletions in any combination. In some
25 instances, the host cell include one or more gene deletions of interest and produces lower
   levels of reticuline, scoulerine, cheilanthifoline or stylopine than control cells that do not
   include the one or more gene deletions of interest.
            In another embodiment, in the subject host cells, a gene involved in the pleiotropic
   drug response, including but not limited to ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters,
30 multidrug resistance (MDR) pumps and associated transcription factors, are placed under
   the control of a regulated (e.g., inducible or growth stage dependent) promoter to implement
   temporal control of BIA transport. In certain cases, a transporter gene is placed under the
   control of a stationary phase promoter which causes a BIA of interest to be retained within
   the cell until stationary phase. In such host cells, the conversion of starting materials to the
35 desired end products may be increased.
                                                    21

     WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
             Protoberberine-producinq host cells
             Aspects of the invention include engineered host cells that produce protoberberine
   alkaloids. In some cases, the protoberberine alkaloids have one of the following structures:
                 R4    R5                       R4    R5
         R3                   R6         R3                 R6
         R2    |         +    R7R8       R2              N      R8
                   113     R,       R9            113              R9
                     R12            R10             R12            R10
                              R11                           R11
 5  where R1 -R14 are each independently selected from -H, an alkyl (e.g., a lower alkyl such as
    methyl (CH 3 ) or ethyl), a hydroxyl or an alkoxy (OR) (e.g., a lower alkoxy such as methoxy
   or ethoxy).
             In certain instances, the protoberberine alkaloids are produced from reticuline or
   other analogs thereof, or derivatives thereof, e.g., present in the culture media (e.g., of a
10  reticuline-producing cell, e.g., as described herein), or introduced to a cell lysate or lysate
   fraction. In certain cases, the host cells may include one or more heterologous coding
    sequences to express one or more of, or any combination of, the following enzymes:
   berberine bridge enzyme (BBE), scoulerine 9'-O-methyltransferase (S90MT), canadine
    synthase (CAS), and (S)-tetrahydroprotoberberine oxidase (STOX), wherein the one or
15  more enzymes is derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell.
             In some instances, the source organism is P. somniferum, E. californica, C.
   japonica, T. flavum, Berberis stolonifer, T. flavum subsp. glaucum, Coptis chinensis,
    Thalictrum spp, Coptis spp, Papaver spp, Berberis wilsonae, A. mexicana, or Berberis spp.
             In certain embodiments, the host cell comprises multiple copies of the one or more
20  heterologous coding sequences. In some case, the multiple copies of the one or more
    heterologous coding sequences are derived from two or more different source organisms as
   compared to the host cell. For example, the host cell may include multiple copies of one
    heterologous coding sequence, where each of the copies is derived from a different source
    organism. As such, each copy may include some variations in explicit sequences based on
25  inter-species differences of the enzyme of interest that is encoded by the heterologous
   coding sequence.
             In some instances, the host cell comprises two or more heterologous coding
    sequences for two or more enzymes selected from BBE, S90MT, CAS and STOX. In some
    instances, the host cell comprises three or more heterologous coding sequences for three
30 or more enzymes selected from BBE, S90MT, CAS and STOX. In some instances, the host
                                                    22

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for each of the enzymes BBE, S90MT, CAS
   and STOX.
            In some embodiments, the host cell comprises the heterologous coding sequence
   for CAS and a heterologous coding sequence for ATR1. In certain embodiments, the host
 5 cell comprises the heterologous coding sequence for STOX.
            In some embodiments, the host cell (e.g., an engineered yeast strain) supports a
   biosynthetic pathway as depicted in Figure 5.
            In some instances, the host cell includes the gene STOX that shares 75% or more
   (e.g., 78%) nucleic acid sequence identity with the naturally occurring gene B. wilsonae (S)
10 tetrahydroprotoberberine oxidase (Table 3). The gene may be a non-natural nucleotide
   sequence, codon-optimized for yeast expression.
            Aspects of the invention entail the functional expression of STOX or its homologues
   in live yeast culture. In certain embodiments, host cells are engineered to produce berberine
   from its precursor (S)-canadine.
15          In one embodiment of the invention, the expression levels for the enzymes are
   relatively low (e.g., CEN/ARS vector or genomic expression) for BBE, CAS, and STOX
   (see, e.g., Figure 6a) and relatively high (e.g., 2 pm vector or multiple genomic copies) for
   S90MT (see, e.g., Figure 6b). The expression levels may be altered using any convenient
   method. Methods of interest include but are not limited to, changing the strength of the
20 constitutive promoter, using an inducible promoter, changing the number of copies of each
   gene episomally or genomically (see, e.g., Figure 6c), altering the selection marker, and/or
   culture conditions corresponding to promoter activity or selection.
            In some embodiments, the one or more enzymes are recombinantly expressed from
   a yeast artificial chromosome (e.g., Figure 10).
25          Aspects of the invention include the functional expression of CAS or its homologues
   in live yeast culture as part of a larger biosynthetic pathway. In certain embodiments, the
   host strains are engineered to produce berberine from norlaudanosoline or its precursors
   (e.g., according to Figures 5, 7 or Table 2). In some instances, the host cell is capable of
   producing berberine from reticuline via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 5. In another
30 embodiment of the invention, the host cell includes a cytochrome P450 reductase partner
   for CAS that is ATR1, the co-expression of which may result in higher CAS activity than E.
   californica CPR, A. thaliana ATR2, P. somniferum CPR, or endogenous yeast CPR (e.g.,
   Figure 6d).
            Aspects of the invention entail the functional expression of STOX or its homologues
35 in live yeast culture. In certain embodiments, host cells are engineered to produce (S)
   canadine, the precursor of berberine, from norlaudanosoline. In some embodiments, the
   host cell is capable of producing (S)-canadine from norlaudanosoline.
                                                   23

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
            In order to enhance the accumulation of BIAs within the yeast cell, heterologous
   transporters, including but not limited to plant ATP-binding cassette proteins from BIA
   producing plants, may be expressed in the engineered strains. In some embodiments, one
   or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more transporters selected from
 5 CjABCB1, CjABCB2, and/or CjABCB2 may be included to accumulate berberine within the
   host cell.
            In some cases, the host cell is a yeast strain.
            Thebaine-producinq host cells
10          Aspects of the invention include engineered host cells that produce thebaine, either
   as an intermediate or a final product, from reticuline or its precursors. The reticuline or its
   precursors may be produced by an existing strain, be present in the culture media, or
   introduced to a cell lysate or lysate fraction. In some instances, the host cells may include
   one or more heterologous coding sequences to express for one or more enzymes selected
15 from salutaridine synthase (SalSyn), cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6), cytochrome P450
   2D2 (CYP2D2), salutaridine reductase (SaIR), and/or salutaridinol 7-0-acetyltran sferase
   (SalAT). The one or more enzymes may be derived from a different source organism as
   compared to the host cell.
            In some instances, the source organism is P. somniferum, P. bracteatum, Papaver
20 orientale, Papaver spp, Homo sapiens, or Rattus norvegicus.
            In certain cases, the host cells are engineered yeast strains that support a
   biosynthetic pathway in a host as depicted in Figure 8.
            In certain embodiments, the host cell comprises multiple copies of the one or more
   heterologous coding sequences. In some case, the multiple copies of the one or more
25 heterologous coding sequences are derived from two or more different source organisms as
   compared to the host cell.
            In some instances, the host cell comprises two heterologous coding sequences. In
   certain instances, the two heterologous coding sequences are for the enzymes SaIR and
   SaIAT.
30          In some instances, the host cell includes the gene CYP2D6, CYP2D2, and/or
   SalSyn and/or another natural or engineered P450 that can produce salutaridine from
   reticuline. The gene may be a natural or non-natural nucleotide sequence, codon-optimized
   for yeast expression.
            In some embodiments, the host cell includes a cytochrome P450 reductase partner
35 for CYP2D6, CYP2D2, and/or SalSyn that is a mammalian CPR and/or ATR1, the co
   expression of which may result in higher CYP2D6, CYP2D2, and/or SalSyn activity than E.
   californica CPR, A. thaliana ATR2, P. somniferum CPR, or endogenous yeast CPR.
                                                    24

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
            In some embodiments, the host cell may include one or more heterologous coding
   sequences to express one or more of any SaIR variant listed in Table 2. In some cases, the
   host cell may express one or more of any SaIAT variant listed in Table 2. Additionally, the
   SaIR variants may include the F1 04A and/or 1275A mutations and/or any other convenient
 5 mutations (e.g., Figure 9). Aspects of the invention include the functional expression of both
   SaIR and SaIAT, resulting in the production of thebaine from salutaridine.
            In one embodiment of the invention, the host cell includes a combination of
   enzymes: codon-optimized P. bracteatum SaIR with F1 04A or 1275A mutations and any of
   the codon-optimized variants of SaIAT (e.g., Figure 9). The SaIAT genes may share less
10 than or equal to 80% nucleic acid sequence identity with their naturally occurring
   counterparts (Table 3). These genes may be non-natural nucleotide sequences, codon
   optimized for yeast expression.
            In another embodiment of the invention, the conversion of salutaridine to thebaine
   catalyzed by SaIR and SaIAT occurs in a crude lysate of the subject host cell expressing
15 both enzymes supplemented by the cofactor NADPH. In another embodiment of the
   invention, SaIAT and SaIR may be expressed in an engineered host cell expressing any
   convenient additional enzymes such that the strain produces products for which thebaine is
   a precursor. In some cases, the strain may produce oripavine, morphine, codeine,
   hydromorphone, hydrocodone, oxycodone, and/or oxymorphone from thebaine.
20          In some instances, the host cell further comprises heterologous coding sequences
   for T60DM and morB (e.g., morB or morB-E160G). In certain cases, the strain may produce
   one or more opiate compounds, such as hydrocodone.
            In yet another embodiment of the invention, the conversion of reticuline to thebaine
   catalyzed by SaIR and SaIAT occurs in a host cell (e.g., an engineered yeast strain) that is
25 modified to produce increased amounts of NADPH by comparison to a control host cell
   (e.g., a native yeast strain) (see, e.g., Table 2).
            In one embodiment of the invention, SaIR and/or SalAT and CYP2D2 or CYP2D6 or
   SalSyn or an engineered cytochrome P450 enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of
   reticuline to salutaridine are expressed from a yeast artificial chromosome.
30          In some cases, the host cell is a yeast strain. In certain instances, the host cell may
   be engineered to increase production of salutaridinol or thebaine or products for which
   thebaine is a precursor from reticuline or its precursors by localizing SaIR and/or SalAT to
   organelles in the yeast cell. SaIR and/or SaIAT may be localized to the yeast endoplasmic
   reticulum in order to decrease the spatial distance between SaIR and/or SaIAT and
35 CYP2D2 or CYP2D6 or SalSyn or an engineered cytochrome P450 enzyme that catalyzes
   the conversion of reticuline to salutaridine. By increased production is meant both the
   production of some amount of the compound of interest where the control has no production
                                                   25

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   of the compound of interest, as well as an increase of 10% or more, such as 50% or more,
   including 2-fold or more, e.g., 5-fold or more, such as 10-fold or more in situations where
   the control has some production of the compound of interest.
 5         Opiate-producinq host cells
           Aspects of the invention include engineered host cells expressing one or more of the
   following enzymes: thebaine 6-O-demethylase (T60DM: EC 1.14.11.31), codeinone
   reductase (COR; EC 1.1.1.247), codeine O-demethylase (CODM: EC 1.14.11.32),
   morphine dehydrogenase (morA: EC 1.1.1.218 and EC 1.1.1.247) and morphinone
10 reductase (morB: EC 1.3.1.-) (see, e.g., Table 2). The host cells may produce opiate
   compounds selected from including codeine, morphine, hydrocodone and hydromorphone,
   oxycodone, dihydrocodeine, 14-hydroxycodeine and dihydromorphine. By more is meant
   both the production of some amount of the compound of interest where the control has no
   production of the compound of interest, as well as an increase of about 10% or more, such
15 as about 20% or more, about 30% or more, about 40% or more, about 50% or more, about
   60% or more, about 80% or more, about 100% or more, such as 2-fold or more, such as 5
   fold or more, including 10-fold or more in situations where the control has some production
   of the compound of interest. The host cells may synthesize these products from thebaine,
   either supplied in the culture medium, or produced by the host cells itself, or produced by
20 one or more strains co-cultured with the opiate-producing host cells. In some embodiments,
   the genetic modifications which comprise these host cells may be combined with those of
   thebaine-producing host cells to produce master strains capable of biosynthesizing opiates
   from upstream intermediates, tyrosine, or fermentable carbon sources.
           The opiate compounds may be observed and measured using any convenient
25 methods. Methods of interest include LC-MS methods (e.g., as described herein) where a
   sample of interest is analyzed by comparison with a known amount of a standard opiate
   compound. Identity may be confirmed, e.g., by m/z and MS/MS fragmentation patterns, and
   quantitation or measurement of the compound may be achieved via LC and/or EIC MS
   analysis by reference to a corresponding amount of standard of the compound.
30         In some embodiments, the host cell is capable of producing the opiate compound
   from thebaine via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 15.
           In some cases, the host cell produces no oripavine or morphinone from thebaine. In
   certain instances, the host cell produces one or more of neopine and neomorphine.
           In some instances, the host cell produces a yield of the opiate compound that is
35 10% or more of the total opiates, such as 20% or more, 30% or more, 40% or more, 50% or
   more, 50% or more, 50% or more, 50% or more, or even 90% or more of the total opiates in
   the host cell. In certain cases, the host cell produces a yield of the opiate compound that is
                                                    26

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   30% or more, such as 50% or more of the total opiates.
            In some embodiments, the host cell produces an opiate compound, wherein the host
   cell comprises: one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes
   selected from T60DM, COR, and CODM, wherein the one or more enzymes are derived
 5 from a different source organism as compared to the host cell; and one or more
   heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected from morA and morB,
   wherein the one or more enzymes are derived from a different source organism as
   compared to the host cell. In certain embodiments the morA is P. putida morA and the
   morB is P. putida morB. In certain embodiments, the host cell comprises four or more
10 heterologous coding sequences.
            In some cases, the host cell is a cell that produces an opiate compound, wherein the
   host cell comprises four or more heterologous coding sequences for four or more enzymes
   selected from thebaine 6-O-demethylase (T60DM), codeinone reductase (COR), codeine
   O-demethylase (CODM), morphine dehydrogenase (morA) and morphinone reductase
15 (morB), wherein the four or more enzymes are derived from a different source organism as
   compared to the host cell.
            In certain embodiments, the source organism is P. somniferium, Papaver spp. or P.
   putida.
            In some instances, the host cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for
20 T60DM, COR, CODM and morA. In certain instances, the host cell comprises heterologous
   coding sequences for T60DM, COR, CODM and morB. In certain instances, the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for T60DM, CODM, morA and morB. In some
   embodiments, the host cell comprises heterologous coding sequences for the enzymes
   T60DM, COR and CODM.
25          In certain cases, the host cell comprises multiple copies of one or more of the
   heterologous coding sequences. The multiple copies of the heterologous coding sequences
   may be derived from one or two or more different source organisms as compared to the
   host cell. For example, the host cell may include multiple copies of one heterologous
   coding sequence, where each of the copies is derived from a different source organism. As
30 such, each copy may include some variations in explicit sequences based on inter-species
   differences of the enzyme of interest that is encoded by the heterologous coding sequence.
            In some instances, host cell expresses one or more of the genes thebaine 6-0
   demethylase (T60DM), codeinone reductase (COR) and codeine O-demethylase (CODM).
   In certain cases, these genes (T60DM, COR and CODM) share 76.2%, 76.8- 77.7% and
35 75.2% nucleotide sequence similarity, respectively, with the naturally occurring genes from
   P. somniferum (see Table 3. In certain cases, the genes expressed in the engineered host
   cells represent non-natural nucleotide sequences which are optimized for the codon usage
                                                    27

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   of the host cell, S. cerevisiae.
            In some instances, the host cells support a metabolic pathway as depicted in Figure
   15. In certain cases, in the first step T60DM acts on thebaine to make neopinone. However,
   some of the pool of neopinone in the yeast cell is then acted on by COR to make neopine,
 5 while some other molecules of neopinone spontaneously rearrange to form codeinone.
   Codeinone is also acted on by COR to make codeine. Neopine and codeine are then
   metabolized by CODM to make neomorphine and morphine respectively. This pathway may
   result in the production of non-target products neopine and neomorphine as well as the
   expected targets codeine and morphine. In some embodiments, the host cell provided a
10 route to morphine utilizing the three enzymes T60DM, COR and CODM (Figure 15) where
   the engineered strains produce little or no oripavine or morphinone.
            In one embodiment of the invention, the COR enzyme for the pathway is isoform 1.3
   from P. somniferum. This isoform of COR may produce similar levels of codeine to other
   variants tested, but minimize the amount of non-target neopine.
15          In another embodiment, the host cell (e.g., a yeast strain) is engineered for selective
   production of codeine and morphine over neopine and neomorphine by localizing COR to
   compartments in the yeast cell. In one embodiment of the invention illustrated in Figure 18,
   COR is localized to the yeast endoplasmic reticulum by fusing an ER2 targeting sequence
   to the C-terminus of the protein. T60DM may be located in the cytoplasm of such a host cell
20 such that neopinone produced by this enzyme spontaneously rearranges to codeinone
   before reaching the mitochondrial-localized COR enzyme. The spatial distance between the
   two enzymes may be selected to prevent COR from acting directly on neopinone to make
   neopine, and restrict production of non-target neopine and downstream neomorphine. In
   another embodiment of the invention, CODM is co-localized with COR to convert codeine
25 produced by COR to morphine. In yet another embodiment, COR, either singularly or
   together with CODM, is be localized to any convenient compartment in the host cell (e.g., a
   yeast cell), including but not limited to the endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi, vacuole, nucleus,
   plasma membrane, and the periplasm (see Figure 18).
            In certain embodiments, the host cell (e.g., a yeast strain) has several copies of
30 each heterologous coding sequence present in the cell either integrated in the chromosome
   or within episomal DNA. Any convenient ratios of heterologous coding sequences may be
   utilized in the subject host cells. In some instances optimized for the production of
   morphine, the ratio for the total number of copies of heterologous coding sequences for
   T60DM:COR:CODM is 1:1:3, 2:1:2 or 2:1:3 (see, e.g., Figure 17).
35          The culture medium may be optimized such that excess 2-oxoglutarate is available
   to support the activity of 2-oxoglutarate-dependent enzymes T60DM and CODM. The
   culture medium may include any of the following additives used either individually or in
                                                   28

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   combination: 2-oxoglutarate, glutamate, and glutamine (Figure 16). In certain embodiments,
   the host cell is an engineered yeast strain capable of producing increased amounts of 2
   oxoglutarate by comparison to a control yeast strain. In other embodiments, the 2
   oxoglutarate is added directly to the culture media.
 5         In some embodiments, the host cell further comprises increased amounts of 2
   oxoglutarate by comparison to a control host cell (e.g., a yeast strain), wherein the
   increased amounts of 2-oxoglutarate are introduced via direct addition to the culture
   medium of the host cell. In some instances, the host cell further comprises increased
   amounts of one or two or three of glutamine,    2-oxcolutarate and gutarnate by comparison
10 to a control yeast strain.
           In some instances, the host cell supports the activity of 2-oxoglutarate-dependent
   enzymes T60DM and CODM such that additional co-substrate 2-oxoglutarate is made
   available to the heterologous enzymes from the host cell metabolism (see, e.g., Figure 16).
   Such modifications of interest to the host cell genotype are detailed in Table 3 and may
15 include any one or more of the following: (1) overexpression of glutamate dehydrogenase
   enzyme (GDH), either native or heterologous, to generate 2-oxoglutarate from glutamate,
   (2) deletion of glutamine synthase (GLN1) to prevent loss of glutamate in glutamine
   production, and/or deletion of glutamate synthase (GLT1) to prevent loss of 2-oxoglutarate
   in glutamate production, (3) deletion of one or several glutamate dehydrogenase genes
20 (GDH1, GDH2, GDH3) to prevent the reversible conversion of glutamate to 2-oxoglutarate
   and ammonia, (4) deletion of one or several 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase genes (KGD1,
   KGD2, LPD1) to block loss of 2-oxoglutarate to succinyl-CoA, (5) and in addition, one or
   several mitochondrial 2-oxoglutarate transporters (including but not limited to ODC1 and
   ODC2) may be overexpressed or knocked out in the host cell.
25         In some instances, the host cell comprises one or more coding sequences for one or
   more proteins selected from GLN1, GLT1, GDH1, GDH2, GDH3, ODC1, ODC2, KGD1,
   KGD2 and LPD1.
           In certain instances, in a production strain the promoters regulating expression of
   the pathway genes are positioned adjacent to each other and act in opposing directions
30 such that two genes situated side-by-side are expressed from the sense and antisense
   strands (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 10). Genetic cassettes comprising a promoter, gene
   and terminator may be arranged in pairs with such a back-to-back promoter design to
   increase expression and give a corresponding increase in morphine production over
   identical cassettes positioned unidirectionally. A DNA construct of interest having such an
35 arrangement may be either incorporated in episomal DNA or chromosomal DNA or both. In
   some cases, when there is an odd number of genetic cassettes, the promoter of the gene
   without a pair is located adjacent to vector or chromosomal DNA.
                                                   29

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
             In some embodiments, the host cell includes one or more of the enzymes that
   comprise a localization tag. In certain embodiments, one or more of the enzymes in the host
   cell is spatially localized to a compartment in the host cell. In certain case, the host cell is a
   yeast cell. Any convenient locations in a host cell may be utilized for localizing one or more
 5 enzymes. In certain cases, the host cellular compartment is selected from mitochondrion,
   endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi, vacuole, nucleus, plasma membrane, and periplasm.
             In some instances, the one or more enzymes is spatially localized to the outside of
   the compartment in the yeast cell. In certain instances, the one or more enzymes is spatially
   localized to the inside of the compartment in the yeast cell. In some cases, the one or more
10 enzymes is COR. In some instances, the COR enzyme is localized to mitochondria in the
   yeast cell. In some embodiments, the host cell comprises COR and T60DM enzymes that
   are spatially separated from each other in the cell.
             In certain cases, if T60DM and CODM, sharing a minimum of about 80% or more
   (e.g.,  8 0 .1%) similarity to each other, are expressed from the same DNA construct in the
15 host cell, the genes are positioned back-to-back such that one is expressed from the sense
   strand and the other from the anti-sense strand. This design may enhance the stability of
   two sequences sharing homology.
             In some instances, the movement of metabolites between the cell and culture
   medium may be altered to improve uptake or retention. For a single transformation such as
20 the uptake of thebaine and conversion to neopinone by T60DM (and spontaneous
   rearrangement to codeinone) up to 2% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) may be included in the
   culture medium to enhance metabolite exchange with the culture medium such that more of
   the substrate is taken up by the cell and more of the product is released. For two or more
   transformations, plasma membrane transporters in the ATP-binding cassette class may be
25 deleted such that intermediates in the heterologous pathway are retained in the subject host
   cell. This supports flux through the pathway and results in enhanced production of end
   products. Alternatively, in some cases, the transporters may be temporally regulated such
   that expression is off during the exponential growth phase to in order retain intermediates,
   and then enhanced during the stationary phase to release end product metabolites to the
30 culture medium.
             In certain embodiments, the enzyme morphinone reductase (morB) (e.g., from P.
   putida) M1 0 is expressed in a host cell together with T60DM to generate host cell strains
   that produce hydrocodone (see e.g., Figure 20). The enzyme morB may include a mutation
   E160G.
35           In another embodiment of the invention, morphine dehydrogenase (morA), (e.g.,
   from P. putida M1 0), is expressed in a host cell together with morB. Such host cells make
   hydromorphone from morphine both in vitro (e.g., in crude lysate) and in vivo (e.g, as live
                                                     30

    WO 2014/143744                                                               PCT/US2014/027833
   cells). In certain cases, morA includes mutation C81S. In some embodiments, a morA
   variant and morB are expressed together in the host cell with one or more of T60DM, COR
   and CODM to make hydromorphone from thebaine. In certain embodiments, one or more
   variants of T60DM, COR, CODM, morA and morB are expressed in thebaine-producing
 5 strains to form a total biosynthesis pathway for hydromorphone (Figure 20).
            In another embodiment of the invention, morA has enhanced supply of cofactors
   NADP+/NADPH to support activity of this enzyme. In certain embodiments, the nitrogen
   metabolism in the host cell is altered such that NADPH-dependent ammonia assimilation is
   decreased and replaced with NADH-dependent assimilation. Such host cells may include
10 any one or more of the following genetic modifications: deletion of NADPH-dependent
   GDH1, deletion of NADPH-dependent GDH3, overexpression of NADH-dependent GDH2,
   or overexpression of a heterologous glutamate dehydrogenase (Table 3).
    Table 1: Host Cell strains of interest
   Strain      Enzyme             Starting            BIA Products                    Characteristics
   #           Expression         compounds
               Cassettes
   1           Ps60MT,            Norlaudanosoline    Reticuline, scoulerine,         Chromosomal
   (Figure     PsCNMT,                                cheilanthifoline, stylopine,    integration and
   14)         Ps4'OMT, PsBBE,                        cis-N-methylstylopine,          episomal
               EsCFS, ATR1,                           protopine
               EcSTS, PsTNMT,
               PsMSH
   2           Ps6OMT,            Norlaudanosoline    Reticuline, scoulerine,         Chromosomal
   (Figure     PsCNMT,                                tetrahydrocolumbamine,          integration, YAC,
   7)          Ps4'OMT, PsBBE,                        canadine, berberine             and episomal
              TfgS90MT,
              TfgCAS, ATR1,
               BwSTOX
   3           Ps60MT,            Norlaudanosoline    Reticuline, scoulerine,         Chromosomal
   (Figure     PsCNMT,                                tetrahydrocolumbamine,          integration and
   6A-B)       Ps4'OMT, PsBBE,                        canadine                        episomal
               TfgS90MT,
               TfgCAS, ATR1
   4           BwSTOX             Canadine            Berberine                       Episomal
   (Figure
   6A and
   6C)
   5           Ps60MT,            Norlaudanosoline    Reticuline, scoulerine,         Chromosomal
   (Figure     PsCNMT,                                tetrahydrocolumbamine,          integration and
   6A-B)       Ps4'OMT, PsBBE,                        canadine                        episomal
               TfgS90MT,
               TfgCAS, and one
               of ATR1, PsCPR,
               EcCPR, or no
               CPR
   6           SalSyn, CYP2D2,    Reticuline          Thebaine                        Chromosomal
   (Figure     or CYP2D6;                                                             integration, YAC,
   8)          PsSaIR, PsSaIR                                                         and episomal
               F105A, PsSaIR
               1275A, or PbSaIR
               and PsSalAT
                                                   31

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   7          PsSaIR, PsSaIR      Salutaridine      Thebaine                      Chromosomal
   (Figure    F105A, PsSaIR                                                       integration
   9)         1275A, or PbSalR
              and PsSaAT
           In some embodiments, the host cell is selected from one of the yeast strains 1-7
   described in Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain 1, comprising
   heterologous coding sequences and capable of producing compounds as is described in
 5 the entry of Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain 2, comprising
   heterologous coding sequences and capable of producing compounds as is described in
   the entry of Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain 3, comprising
   heterologous coding sequences and capable of producing compounds as is described in
   the entry of Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain 4, comprising
10 heterologous coding sequences and capable of producing compounds as is described in
   the entry of Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain 5, comprising
   heterologous coding sequences and capable of producing compounds as is described in
   the entry of Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain 6, comprising
   heterologous coding sequences and capable of producing compounds as is described in
15 the entry of Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain 7, comprising
   heterologous coding sequences and capable of producing compounds as is described in
   the entry of Table 1. In some embodiments, the host cell is selected from one of the yeast
   strains described in Table 4. In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain CSY905
   (e.g., as described herein). In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain CSY906
20 (e.g., as described herein). In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain CSY950
   (e.g., as described herein). In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain CSY951
   (e.g., as described herein). In certain embodiments, the host cell is yeast strain CSY952
   (e.g., as described herein).
                                                 32

   WO 2014/143744                                                                                                                                       PCT/US2014/027833
                                                                                                                                             r-                            cc7rN
                  C
                  03
                      LO co2~~                  eo               oo mo
                                                         0-nLOioC rouco-
                                                                           m memwcO
                                                                                om        et
                                                                                                    o
                                                                                                       W      o f;      cm o oIJ o0
                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                              mL o : roo ,veoonoo oo        - N o LO
                                                                                                                                                                 mooO- 0*
                                                                                                                                                                           E D ID
                                                                                                                                                                           to      0, m
        a         (0e - 00
                  s~jtooC3)Cjto       -e
                                            0 ,-- Fi z10oo00     N 0 T --- t            cq mtO          N     ' to d O O           m ) to                    0 - (0 oo
                     >o >> >> >->m                     >> oju- LL
                                                                             1     oo      nw
                                                                                y .. DoZ mu.Dou.
                                                                                                        r   (m        4
                                                                                                                     Dau           00..
                                                                                                                                  co            T~c
                                                                                                                                                       < <<r               o cre 00 L
                                                                                                                                                                             -                     )0Q(
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LO )
                  < << << <                     < << 0<                   < < < <0< w < w0Uow 3                                   < <J                 <<0                      o                    <<
                                            '.00~                                                 .0                                        -0         w
                                                                                       o           o                        0      0         0
                                                                                       2        m2        ~C                2      0-
                                                                                                                                   2         02 - CD              0 cioE                         E
                                                                                       x           x                    ai a:
                                                                                                                            x      x          x        C Z0)C,                         v              a)
                                                                                                                                                                                           Z         Z
                                                                                       o           o                        o      o          o                                        o         e
                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                      _0           0                        0      05         0 0            E' u                               <2c
       .,                              u~~ a~t                                         0) c)
                                                                                       as          a
                                                                                                               ) Q)a)Q)
                                                                                                                             asg m a-aV
                                                                                                                                        ci)
                                                                                                                                             gsa
                                                                                                                                                      uD
                                                                                                                                                   u >'E m
                                                                                                                                                                    i)  >           curo-
                                                                                                                                                                                            $ uu
                                                                                                                                                                                            Eu
                                                                                                                                                                                              o w c
                                                                                                                                                                                                ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Euu
                                                                                       O             0.                     0                 o      .T      N o)
                                                                                       0           0                        o       o         o         x        00                 o0x     x    E
                                                                                                                                                        w        w
                                               or                                                                                                                                    o           >
    Wa'
 C      Uc
           a 0                                  o                                     m rc w m             (D                                                                     00                 0
                                                      >-
          EE   .Q
                  CL       j)
                               EQC-(         0
                                                 c
                                                             r.      j C            c   - u      I       u tQu                   LujOI-
                                                                                                                                              8        utj      LZ         z      C6        Ea
 L)U Cd                     U    '        U       )               c)*                                                                       -Ei)       .E                         ..a c
-0                        -     l~)
                                  (c(~       ~    0li~                 (ii       c~ 0 ci      E       c       c--,                .         -=          o                          (
                                                                                                                                                                                  .a                  o
                  8T
                   -)I        E                 z               t              Z2                                                                                                                t
 _                    0                         -
...               o    i)           0-.c~~~
                                         -0
                                                 E                                                  c0        SC
                                                                                                             aC -2                  0                                              .a  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                      a)
o0                                                                                                                                  2       xN          )
 cm               O)                             0               o                                 0         z                                                                     +
       <                      .                     i              )>                                                       ci<                                                     +
                                                                                                                                                0)
    0   CU
                         0  ~             i                         0E~
                                                                                      Z=     Z1C
                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                                                                                                          z 0 i c . ~
  r               *  o oO      o-c               cc0.           -     O                 0          ra30                             20        c                                                       c0
            a)                        a)  0  i                    L))00                 u     o ~0 E         ~D          ~            2     0     O           :3       (3 0        -0
       n                                                        1 W1                      CD     =D              C~                     W      0)                                                     EE
                           oo                 0 2                            EE                              C5                     O         E              oR
 Cd(n      0)                 0    m                              N        0          ,*            D
                                                                                                    ,        i-
                                                                                                             --    c                 7       0 v?
                                                                                                                                                        E    -0tO
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                           c
                                                                                                                                                                                                     'F
                              O~                                                       :3                                                    -0         XO $L                                         CU
      ci,-                C-) o)             C)       C)C                                                                   4,              V)2C              )
  0     o
                  .=0         Zc
                              -
                                       m0T                       -E
                                                                      co              u           z0                                               o         a)                                      0
          0E    >c            z                                                                               i   c          i .  -  Om-)
                                                                                                                                     .)       N         E     I   I                        m          0o
                                                 N                                    UN         F-           0  c         U)                 i                                   0                  0
 .-     E         oEoE                                          c                                   E        -c -           -     IL-                         -                                        cz
 .      m                     2--                               .                      =           o              )        .n               0 cc
 aw               z
                                       0
                                     c'-      ~~                  o
                                                                                                              O E
                                                                                                              Oz0a           a~
                                                                                                                            O-m     x.        ooo
                                                                                                                                              N o      zo  n-Q-  E
                                                                                                                                                                 o)                 0 o               0
                                                 _33
                          0)      a)                                                                                                                    0    CU.p~
                                        N~~~I
                                                              ~~>.                                                                                           w L     ~ ~0      )
                                                                                                                                                                              c--. 0
                                                                                                                                                                                    2a
                                                                                                                                                                                        (i     0.2cca a
                  zE                                              Cw                  0                                     EE >.            -0 U           -0 co
                                                                                                                                                           Z~
                                       0 >,                                            cu 33 -               _rX

WO 2014/143744                                                                                                                                     PCT/US2014/027833
                                                                  Ul            )                                                                                                            (Nr
                           In    - r'~~ 1                                                                                    rn            cooc
                                                                                                                                            m0
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                InI      0r               Ln           L mC~         4U 0 0N                                R mmmn                                            c               0
  co co                                                    NN         ( 0 't        0n                                               00~         '                                            0 "     )I
      0m                             om        m                                                                                                                               u~0 o         Coo     o
                         E                                 2N                                                                                                   .                              0
                               0~~                                                                                   "u                              0
      0                     >     E
                                  0.Z
                                                           > E
                                                          ZO
                                                                                                      <N            >w
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~        E>
                                                           LU 0
                                                                                                             .t                            Lu o      z           t       <      13z
                                                          cc Uo                                                              o      z
                            E                                                                               i           '           "oo ui~ > E            i     E            u         E
      o                                                    o                                                                                                     o
                                                              a) >0                                                  wo            0    L~                           o'o )                a)0~   o o   0
                                                                                                                                      0
                             0>                         Q0>                                            c)oO.(u            .o       o        0a,>       000            a)>000ja,>0>
E             ~E                                 ~            E                                       -       i'                   -            EEE
                                                                                                      o
                                                                                                      o                     0
                                                          a)                                          co                    Co
                                                                                                                             Ni                      N                     N    4
                oj          CO
                                                                                                                                                ( a .(                            0
                                                                                                              Q     L            (      0
                                                                                                    3
                            II                                                                                               +                                                 -a
                           +                                                                          0.                                                                      -o
                                                                                  +                                                                                                   o
                           0.                                                                                                 0
                                    +                                     0                                                                                     +         E
    E                                                                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                                           00
                   -D           <                          _                                                                       00                                     m
                      E.    00. E.                                                                                                   :              z1                      0 u00 0            0
                                 0                  o++0                                                                                    0                                  +~ 0
                                                      z                                                 z                   +        o                                          a)
 0-      -.   L             o4-                                                                        4.40404                  <
                                                                                                                                                                          0
          o~r                                                                                                    Co           4c0
                                                                                                                                     0.              r 0>                 E21
                                                                                                                                                                         Co
                                                                                                                                                       0                  00
                                    <Co                                                                                                                                       >     -         C
                                  2   0Q
                                         <
                                                  -
                                                                            0:
                                                                             )                               :
                                                                                                                                   6                 w.
                                                                                                                                                     =
                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                 i:~       ow     a)       oa)0                       r0                    z~                           U                      w              a
                                       2         o.               xo    .c0W                            00c0c)~.                                                                               E
                                     7         o                      o0.~                              Zoo          <                                             05.
                                                                                                       ..                    F,                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                  o0            D-
                                            -2   -0                                                                           0.3.                                                             l
                                                                                             >,.,.0
                                                        2945    0 -F-    -   a)                                              0 0        UU                   -00
                                                                                       34

   WO 2014/143744                                                                                                                                               PCT/US2014/027833
                                                                                                           w~    ~                 00        0                       00)\JL
                                                                                                                                                                                             WN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  n
                                                      --
                                                                                                                                       cc
                                                                                                                                                ~ 00               0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                  C     j    Cc       -j   Cc       ' ~0 - 0 c
                                                                                                                                   CJ ED                                              '30                 E
                         ~0
                                     u-o                          -o                             CD
  3:                     mt                      u)
       ,2          .2       E                   -D
                                                                                                 0     *
-o      3   )     ~       3                                                                      0       .
                                                       0                  0
                w      EE                                           E                            0)x          0     0                                        0)                          )0                0
          -o        .. ,E                                            z-E                         D      a)     M   m       CO                  mm                     00M
     03:0           03:                          0     0            0      0-
  0::     1 5u         :       0(v0                        m)
  00                03                           0a)                                                                                                                                       03                                  w
                    E                                           E     ~   E                                                                                                          -o     a:3)
                                                                                                                                                                                       3)L.cu                    E.
                                                                                                                                                                                     73 w0 7)                    0
                                                                                                                                                              c0)
                                                                                                                                                              2               o0
                                                                                                              o)                                                              0
                                   NN       N                       O0                                                                            0    0     u     a)                 E        EE
                                                                                                                 0  C )        C)      C) 30         _2                                o         o
                                                                                                                                                     16                                              : .   E.33
                                                                                                                      *~ 0        0                                           -c-~               '-.3
                                             33S.
                                                                  7E-
                                                                                ~                                                 ~1m        '-U
                                                                                                                                                          ~         :
                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                      om         o
                                            E~~         ~~~                                                           f                   )         0               0       ~~Eo0~         ~           ::
                                                                                                                                                       F-           --                                           cE)
                                                                                                     cn-            a)     a)       a       z-0
                                                                                        (n                          r               c        L)              (DE
                                                                                               0                    El     El       E0       3                0
                                                                                  o                                                     0a)       a)     a)              Q
                                         3:                          00                                             E
                                                                                                                         Z33                                                                                  : 0c-3.
 -o        c                    0L                          ac.   .ruo    2                                                                                                           >     >.
  26       o.        0.         E                0          0                                                                                                                               w. w
           c~-l       Elo      oo4NT3            E          u)          t                                                          -        C                                           1
                               E                         o~         ~                   E        a)          C       E0~C                                               -,                   Z         .
                                                            o       o-        .         -                                                                                              000
                                                     .Er,~-                                                   LiL IL
                                                                                                             IL            1L) >            n-F)0.0
                                                                    u              od>                             0
                                       o0
                                    a)               L                                                                     0)a
0                        0                       0                        0                                                                                 0
                                                 E                       E                                                           0
                                                                                        0                                 'o                                        -    uO                                      3
                                                 a)                                                                                          c3)6                                      )m
                                                                                       .2                    '6                                                                        )Q        c3)0
                                              3)                                                                    a)                       a).                    0o                Do mn                a,
                                                            2                                                                                                                         o     2 2           w
                                                                    o                   0                                                                                     0C)      >.)3)..
                 U       3)
                                                                                                                           oo.      >
                                                                                                                                    E                                                 C- C)
  a)                                                                                                                       >,     0 m          '0                             O
           3:        0                                     a)                                                      .                                                                       0 V)0                 :3
                                                                                          C      o                                                              0.-r               >     0    z333333
                            L)       u(L                                                                                        F      E-L V)          >     C-0.0         0.      ~        f~lDD
                                                                                            35

          WO 2014/143744                                                                                 PCT/US2014/027833
 ~etkrt        d e os              KGD2                     ra~~ f ook~~ tsh bdr dl gnt     2txo       to t
Upoank ~ dreoys                   I DY rompcsento dt?        de 1dehiogynee whH   d orbox As 2 tooo             0e t                  YR
                                   ova      Mi 6 %f                                                                             .tt~ ...........
A.;,NAo                                     i N       1;'1    ('g ;ev~ os  I1 s~$ ft sx                                nj £s ot V.f Y~S r;?n Fvr "N
dehysom  Lu                                                                                                                               it2W     06
Table 4: Fig
AShin           edtse
          Engineered   S. oeresiae Gstrains
                                       Expesin cagsm sadehd
                                             utilized           YnMPasei                    'mt m                pidout          se   Gd
Abbreviations: Pprodnoter, Tterminator. *CSY907 isrepeated inthis tabe to show its use as acofitrol strain,
                                         up,                      I
          Enierd~ 4: ceeia
         Table~~           ~~              uti zed
                                        ctan
    C19                u 1S 0    PeT6004T,~eCR1 in Pes~C00JST                        o,        fC
          .t   22
  Y9015                          P2:1124
             UP4
O$Y9%4            c11
      09233 AT0D1:10R1i
 CSY906
                   1,2
                4.92
                  222                                                                 3       1600M_____p__0R13
VSY907    3        11i
(SY92     3                                                                                    00T
CSY928 3                                                                              SI'ur3PaCODM.TcsI3 NaP         OC004
                                    ------ ------

         WO 2014/143744                                                                                    PCT/US2014/027833
C$Y92321U,                                      9                                            0
                                                                                      u3.P.TOcMJ>~            hs\.~CQDM0
C2Y934 4                     P       0J0                    R      P       0
  0S93K4     ER .'           il T6a    0D2 "Ll, lll    COlIL IMD$1C00
CSY937 4     V1                    ITQ0M4!P        00R13aV1'            OD4T
CSY938 4     PM              Pe. t T$0DM.TA  m    P 1 0R PMiTma      eC00WP         _______T_________________
CSY941   4   Mi..            P T.0D.MA          P T0R13P...00DM.              TT
0$Y931 4     00R             PT_00          _T ____0Rl          ____0DM          __
CSY940~ 4 ,COR)             Tq Pi600M           wib0R12#'              rC4To
CSY94I4      CORI            P"0
08Y743 5    tCOT)"60047                        P0l                 00OR P
             COR1.3mA
CSY944       T60     DM.
                    CO      r     w M          P 0DM          .    orA T
CSY944 5     T60DM00V        P%MTh0flM%               M,
05Y946 5     T6M  00mW
                AvA          P i600MePy00D                                     P
        Os   me rA m                603V       P C0D          P              P
CSY949 5 mrorA mot           P TJ604W'         P'r 0D                 A 'ThsP
                       .......            ........................                                            Ns3 \~~60r 1YY
C$SYY0 S     C3Y$5$              ST0D~weseCRlR2TPr 000rsCODPiisc0Me had\ 000T~~~u.1:,
CSY      6   CW1             P.T600M,.%.C:0DM0 ~~                .oA~T       P~~    me.~PWCT$OD4\ hdsrPWXCODMTz'             2A
C$Y$2$6      C$Y962            e6Di
                              .................                                              wGOc5                  eG

    WO 2014/143744                                                              PCT/US2014/027833
   METHODS
            As summarized above, aspects of the invention include methods of preparing a
   benzylisoquinoline alkaloid (BIA) of interest. As such, aspects of the invention include
   culturing a host cell under conditions suitable for protein production such that the
 5 heterologous coding sequences are functionally expressed and convert starting compounds
   of interest into product BIAs of interest.
            In some instances, the method is a method of preparing a benzylisoquinoline
   alkaloid (BIA), include culturing a host cell (e.g., as described herein) under conditions
   suitable for protein production; adding a starting compound to the cell culture; and
10 recovering the BIA from the cell culture.
            In some embodiments of the method, the starting compound, BIA product and host
   cell are described by one of the entries of Table 1. In certain embodiments, the host cell is
   described by one of the strains of Table 4. In certain embodiments, the host cell comprises
   one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes described in Table
15 2.
            Any convenient methods of culturing host cells may be employed for producing the
   BIAs of interest. The particular protocol that is employed may vary, e.g., depending on host
   cell, the heterologous coding sequences, the desired BIAs, etc. The cells may be present in
   any convenient environment, such as an environment in which the cells are capable of
20 expressing one or more functional heterologous enzymes. In vitro, as used herein, simply
   means outside of a living cell, regardless of the location of the cell. As used herein, the term
   in vivo indicates inside a cell, regardless of the location of the cell. In some embodiments,
   the cells are cultured under conditions that are conducive to enzyme expression and with
   appropriate substrates available to allow production of BIAs in vivo. In some embodiments,
25 the functional enzymes can be extracted from the host for production of BIAs under in vitro
   conditions. In some instances, the host cells can be placed back into a multicellular host
   organism. The host cells can be in any phase of growth, including, but not limited to,
   stationary phase and log-growth phase, etc. In addition, the cultures themselves may be
   continuous cultures or they may be batch cultures.
30          Any convenient cell culture conditions for a particular cell type may be utilized. In
   certain embodiments, the host cells that comprise the various heterologous coding
   sequences can be cultured under standard or readily optimized conditions, with standard
   cell culture media and supplements. As one example, standard growth media when
   selective pressure for plasmid maintenance is not required may contain 20 g/L yeast
35 extract, 10 g/L peptone, and 20 g/L dextrose (YPD). Host cells containing plasmids can be
   grown in synthetic complete (SC) media containing 1.7 g/L yeast nitrogen base, 5 g/L
   ammonium sulfate, and 20 g/L dextrose supplemented with the appropriate amino acids
                                                    38

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   required for growth and selection. Alternative carbon sources which may be useful for
   inducible enzyme expression include, but are not limited to, sucrose, raffinose, and
   galactose. Cells can be grown at any convenient temperature (e.g.,     3 02C) with shaking at
   any convenient rate (e.g., 200 rpm) in a vessel, e.g., in test tubes or flasks in volumes
 5 ranging from 1-1000 mL, or larger, in the laboratory. Culture volumes can also be scaled up
   for growth in larger fermentation vessels, for example, as part of an industrial process.
            Any convenient codon optimization techniques for optimizing the expression of
   heterologous polynucleotides in host cells may be adapted for use in the subject host cells
   and methods, see e.g., Gustafsson, C. et al. (2004) Trends Biotechnol, 22, 346-353, which
10 is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
            The subject method may also include adding a starting compound to the cell culture.
   Any convenient methods of addition may be adapted for use in the subject methods. The
   cell culture may be supplemented with a sufficient amount of the starting materials of
   interest (e.g., as described herein), e.g., a mM to pM amount such as between about 1-5
15 mM of starting compound. It is understood that the amount of starting material added, the
   timing and rate of addition, the form of material added, etc., may vary according to a variety
   of factors. The starting material may be added neat or pre-dissolved in a suitable solvent
   (e.g., cell culture media, water or an organic solvent). The starting material may be added in
   concentrated form (e.g., 1Ox over desired concentration) to minimize dilution of the cell
20 culture medium upon addition. The starting material may be added in one or more batches,
   or by continuous addition over an extended period of time (e.g., hours or days).
            The subject methods may also include recovering the BIA from the cell culture. Any
   convenient methods of separation and isolation (e.g., chromatography methods or
   precipitation methods) may be adapted for use in the subject methods to recover the BIA of
25 interest from the cell culture. Filtration methods may be used to separate soluble from
   insoluble fractions of the cell culture. In some cases, liquid chromatography methods (e.g.,
   reverse phase HPLC, size exclusion, normal phase chromatography) are used to separate
   the BIA from other soluble components of the cell culture.
            Also included are methods of engineering host cells for the purpose of producing
30 BIAs of interest. Inserting DNA into host cells may be achieved using any convenient
   methods. The methods are used to insert the heterologous coding sequences into the host
   cells such that the host cells functionally express the enzymes and convert starting
   compounds of interest into product BIAs of interest.
            Any convenient promoters may be utilized in the subject host cells and methods.
35 The promoters driving expression of the heterologous coding sequences may be
   constitutive promoters or inducible promoters, provided that the promoters can be active in
   the host cells. The heterologous coding sequences may be expressed from their native
                                                   39

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   promoters, or non-native promoters may be used. Such promoters may be low to high
   strength in the host in which they are used. Promoters may be regulated or constitutive. In
   certain embodiments, promoters that are not glucose repressed, or repressed only mildly by
   the presence of glucose in the culture medium, are used. Promoters of interest include but
 5 are not limited to, promoters of glycolytic genes such as the promoter of the B. subtilis tsr
   gene (encoding fructose bisphosphate aldolase) or GAPDH promoter from yeast S.
   cerevisiae (coding for glyceraldehyde-phosphate dehydrogenase), the ADH 1 promoter of
   baker's yeast, the phosphate-starvation induced promoters such as the PHO5 promoter of
   yeast, the alkaline phosphatase promoter from B. licheniformis, yeast inducible promoters
10 such as Gall -10, Gall, GalL, GalS, repressible promoter Met25, tetO, and constitutive
   promoters such as glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase promoter (GPD), alcohol
   dehydrogenase promoter (ADH), translation-elongation factor-1-a promoter (TEF),
   cytochrome c-oxidase promoter (CYCi), MRP7 promoter, etc. Autonomously replicating
   yeast expression vectors containing promoters inducible by hormones such as
15 glucocorticoids, steroids, and thyroid hormones may also be used and include, but are not
   limited to, the glucorticoid responsive element (GRE) and thyroid hormone responsive
   element (TRE). These and other examples are described U.S. Pat. No. 7,045,290, which is
   incorporated by reference, including the references cited therein. Additional vectors
   containing constitutive or inducible promoters such as a factor, alcohol oxidase, and PGH
20 may be used. Additionally any promoter/enhancer combination (as per the Eukaryotic
   Promoter Data Base EPDB) could also be used to drive expression of genes. Any
   convenient appropriate promoters may be selected for the host cell, e.g., E coli. One can
   also use promoter selection to optimize transcript, and hence, enzyme levels to maximize
   production while minimizing energy resources.
25         Any convenient vectors may be utilized in the subject host cells and methods.
   Vectors of interest include vectors for use in yeast and other cells. Yeast vectors can be
   broken up into 4 general categories: integrative vectors (Ylp), autonomously replicating high
   copy-number vectors (YEp), autonomously replicating low copy-number vectors (YCp) and
   vectors for cloning large fragments (YACs). Vector DNA can be introduced into prokaryotic
30 or eukaryotic cells via any convenient transformation or transfection techniques.
   UTILITY
           The host cells and methods of the invention, e.g., as described above, find use in a
   variety of applications. Applications of interest include, but are not limited to: research
35 applications and therapeutic applications. Methods of the invention find use in a variety of
   different applications including any convenient application where the production of BIAs is of
   interest.
                                                   40

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
             The subject host cells and methods find use in a variety of therapeutic applications.
   Therapeutic applications of interest include those applications in which the preparation of
   pharmaceutical products that include BIAs is of interest. As such, the subject host cells find
   use in the supply of therapeutically active BiAs or precursors thereof. In some instances,
 5 the host cells and methods are used to produce commercial scale amounts of BIAs where
   chemical synthesis of these compounds is low yielding and not a viable means for large
   scale production. In certain cases, the host cells and methods are utilized in a fermentation
   facility that would comprise bioreactors (fermenters) of e.g., 5,000-200,000 liter capacity
   allowing for rapid production of BIAs of interest for therapeutic products. Such applications
10 may include the industrial-scale production of BIAs of interest from fermentable carbon
   sources such as cellulose, starch, and free sugars.
             The subject host cells and methods find use in a variety of research applications.
   The subject host cells and methods may be used to analyze the effects of a variety of
   enzymes on the biosynthetic pathways of a variety of BIAs of interest. In addition, the host
15 cells may be engineered to produce BIAs that find use in testing for bioactivity of interest in
   as yet unproven therapeutic functions. In some cases, the engineering of host cells to
   include a variety of heterologous coding sequences that encode for a variety of enzymes
   elucidates the high yielding biosynthetic pathways towards BIAs of interest, or precursors
   thereof. In certain cases, research applications include the production of precursors for
20 therapeutic molecules of interest that can then be further chemically modified or derivatized
   to desired products or for screening for increased therapeutic activities of interest. In some
   instances, host cell strains are used to screen for enzyme activities that are of interest in
   such pathways, which may lead to enzyme discovery via conversion of BIA metabolites
   produced in these strains.
25           The subject host cells and methods may be used to as a production platform for
   plant specialized metabolites.
             The subject host cells and methods may be used as a platform for drug library
   development as well as plant enzyme discovery. For example, the subject host cells and
   methods may find use in the development of natural product based drug libraries by taking
30 yeast strains producing interesting scaffold molecules, such as protopine, and further
   functionalizing the compound structure through combinatorial biosynthesis or by chemical
   means. By producing drug libraries in this way, any potential drug hits are already
   associated with a production host that is amenable to large-scale culture and production. As
   another example, these subject host cells and methods can be find use in plant enzyme
35 discovery. The subject host cells provide a clean background of defined metabolites to
   express plant EST libraries to identify new enzyme activities. The subject host cells and
   methods provide expression methods and culture conditions for the functional expression
                                                  41

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   and increased activity of plant enzymes in yeast.
   KITS AND SYSTEMS
            Aspects of the invention further include kits and systems, where the kits and
 5 systems may include one or more components employed in methods of the invention, e.g.,
   host cells, starting compounds, heterologous coding sequences, vectors, culture medium,
   etc., as described herein. In some embodiments, the subject kit includes a host cell (as
   described herein), and one or more components selected from a starting compounds, a
   heterologous coding sequence and/or a vector including the same, and a culture medium.
10          Any of the components described herein may be provided in the kits, e.g., host cells
   comprising one or more heterologous coding sequences, starting compounds, components
   suitable for use in expression systems (e.g., cells, cloning vectors, multiple cloning sites
   (MCS), bi-directional promoters, an internal ribosome entry site (IRES), etc.), culture
   medium, etc. A variety of components suitable for use in making and using heterologous
15 coding sequences, cloning vectors and expression systems may find use in the subject kits.
   Kits may also include tubes, buffers, etc., and instructions for use. The various reagent
   components of the kits may be present in separate containers, or some or all of them may
   be pre-combined into a reagent mixture in a single container, as desired.
            In some cases, the kit includes a host cell selected from a reticuline-producing host
20 cell, a sanguinarine precursor-producing host cell, a protoberberine-producing host cell, a
   thebaine-producing host cell and an opiate-producing host cell. The host cells may include
   one or more heterologous coding sequences (e.g., as described herein). In certain cases,
   the cell expresses a BIA of interest (e.g., as described herein).
            Aspects of the invention include systems for producing a BIA of interest, where the
25 systems may include engineered host cells including heterologous coding sequences (e.g.,
   as described herein), starting compounds, culture medium, a fermenter and fermentation
   equipment, e.g., an apparatus suitable for maintaining growth conditions for the host cells,
   sampling and monitoring equipment and components, and the like. A variety of components
   suitable for use in large scale fermentation of yeast cells may find use in the subject
30 systems.
            In some cases, the system includes components for the large scale fermentation of
   engineered host cells, and the monitoring and purification of BIA compounds produced by
   the fermented host cells. In certain embodiments, one or starting compounds (e.g., as
   described herein) are added to the system, under conditions by which the engineered host
35 cells in the fermenter produce one or more desired BIA products. In certain cases, the BIA
   products of interest are opioid products, such as codeine, neopine, morphine, neomorphine,
   hydrocodone, oxycodone, hydromorphone, dihydrocodeine, 14-hydroxycodeine, or
                                                   42

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   dihydromorphine.
            In some cases, the system includes means for monitoring and or analyzing one or
   more BIA compounds produced by the subject host cells. For example, a LC-MS analysis
   system as described herein, a chromatography system, or any convenient system where
 5 the sample may be analyzed and compared to a standard, e.g., as described herein. The
   fermentation medium may be monitored at any convenient times before and during
   fermentation by sampling and analysis. When the conversion of starting compounds to BIA
   products of interest is complete, the fermentation may be halted and purification of the BIA
   products may be done. As such, in some cases, the subject system includes a purification
10 component suitable for purifying the BIA products of interest from the host cell medium into
   which it is produced. The purification component may include any convenient means may
   be used to purify the BIA products of fermentation, including but not limited to, silica
   chromatography, reverse-phase chromatography, ion exchange chromatography, HIC
   chromatography and size exclusion chromatography. In some cases, the subject system
15 provides for the production and isolation of BIA fermentation products of interest following
   the input of one or more starting compounds to the system.
            The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art
   with a complete disclosure and description of how to make and use the present invention,
   and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention nor
20 are they intended to represent that the experiments below are all or the only experiments
   performed. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g.
   amounts, temperature, etc.) but some experimental errors and deviations should be
   accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is
   weight average molecular weight, temperature is in degrees Centigrade, and pressure is at
25 or near atmospheric.
                                           EXPERIMENTAL
   1.       Reticuline-producing yeast strains
            Strains of S. cerevisiae were developed with improved reticuline production through
30 overexpression of 60MT, CNMT or 4'OMT genes from several different species.
            Figure 1 depicts the in vivo methylation of norlaudanosoline by methyltransferases
   from P. somniferum and T. flavum. In each panel, cultures of host cells expressing each
   methyltransferase individually were grown in the presence of norlaudanosoline and
   methylation products were detected with LCMS. The data demonstrate that
35 methyltransferases have broad substrate specificity providing support to alternative
   methylation pathways. (a) 60MT enzymes from both species show similar methylation
   activity on norlaudanosoline. Fragmentation of methylation product shown in inset. (b)
                                                   43

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   PsCNMT displays higher methylation activity than TfCNMT on norlaudanosoline as a
   substrate. Fragmentation of methylation product shown in inset. (c) 4'OMT enzymes from
   both species show similar methylation activity on norlaudanosoline. Fragmentation of
   methylation product is shown in inset.
 5           Figure 2 depicts alternative methylation routes to reticuline from norlaudanosoline.
   When the starting material of the pathway is norlaudanosoline (1), 60MT, CNMT or 4'OMT
   can act on this compound, thereby creating three distinctly methylated intermediates. BIA 2,
   which is initially methylated by 60MT, can then be methylated by either CNMT or 4'OMT.
   Likewise, BIA 3, which is initially methylated by CNMT, can then be methylated by either
10 60MT or 4'OMT. Similarly, BIA 4, which is initially methylated by 4'OMT, can then be
   methylated by either 60MT or CNMT. BIA 5, which is previously methylated by 60MT and
   4'OMT, can be methylated by CNMT to produce reticuline. BIA 6, which is previously
   methylated by 60MT and CNMT, can be methylated by 4'OMT to produce reticuline. BIA 7,
   which is previously methylated by CNMT and 4'OMT, can be methylated by 60MT to
15 produce reticuline.
             Figure 3 depicts alternative methylation routes to reticuline from norcoclaurine.
   When the starting material of the pathway is norcoclaurine, either 60MT or CNMT can act
   on this compound, thereby creating two distinctly methylated products. BIA 10, which is
   initially methylated by 60MT, can then be methylated by CNMT. BIA 11, which is initially
20 methylated by CNMT, can then be methylated by 60MT. BIA 12, also known as N
   methylcoclaurine, which is previously methylated by 60MT and CNMT, is then sequentially
   acted upon by CYP80B1 and 4'OMT to produce reticuline.
             N-methylcoclaurine production: expression titration of PsCNMT. The measurement
   of N-methylcoclaurine (BIA 12) production when PsCNMT gene copy number is varied with
25 either Tf60MT or Ps60MT in a strain fed norcoclaurine was performed. N-methylcoclaurine
   (BIA 12) production is shown when PsCNMT gene copy number is varied with either
   Tf60MT or Ps60MT in a strain fed norcoclaurine. Crude cell lysates of host cells
   expression either Ps60MT or Tf60MT and one or two copies of PsCNMT were incubated
   with norcoclaurine. The doubly methylated product, N-methylcoclaurine, was measured
30 using LCMS. With Ps60MT, the ion count increased from 2 x 107 to 5.5 x 107 when 2x
   PsCNMT used instead of 1x PsCNMT. With Tf60MT, the ion count increased from 1.5 x 107
   to 6 x 107 when 2xPsCNMT used instead of 1x PsCNMT. The data demonstrates that
   higher gene copy number of a methyltransferase CNMT can increase N-methylcoclaurine
   production.
35
                                                    44

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   II.      Sanguinarine precursor-producing yeast strains
            Strains were developed that produce protoberberine and benzophenanthridine
   alkaloids, including cheilanthifoline, stylopine, cis-N-methylstylopine, protopine and
   dihydrosanguinarine.
 5          Figure 4 depicts a synthetic pathway present in the host cells to make sanguinarine
   from reticuline. Although the pathway may be longer, starting from norlaudanosoline or
   norcoclaurine as shown in other figures, this particular pathway depiction begins with
   reticuline and ends with sanguinarine. The pathway can include fewer enzymes than those
   displayed if the desired end result is one of the intermediates in the norlaudanoso line to
10 sanguinarine pathway. The addition of multiple enzymatic steps, specifically those catalyzed
   by the enzymes CFS, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX, within an engineered yeast strain
   produces a variety of protoberberine and benzophenanthridine compounds.
   1.       Introduction
            Microbial production hosts have been engineered for several protoberberine and
15 protopine alkaloids in the sanguinarine branch of the BIA biosynthetic pathway. Specifically,
   yeast strains were engineered to produce the compounds cheilanthifoline (4), stylopine (5),
   (S)-cis-N-methylstylopine (6), and protopine (7) from the fed substrate norlaudanosoline (1)
   (Figure 11). These pathways show complex plant natural products pathways reconstructed
   in a microbial host, based on number of heterologous enzymes and types of enzymes. In
20 particular, a pathway comprising eight enzymatic steps, including three catalyzed by
   cytochrome P450s, and 11 total heterologous expression cassettes, was demonstrated.
   Several pathway optimization strategies were developed for the reconstruction of these
   complex pathways in yeast for an efficient microbial platform for the biosynthesis of plant
   specialized metabolites. In particular, strategies supporting the functional expression of
25 multiple plant cytochrome P450 enzymes in the context of a large multi-step pathway were
   used, including expression balancing, CPR matching, and culture condition optimization.
   These general design strategies can be applied more broadly to support the engineering of
   diverse plant natural product pathways in yeast.
            Figure 11 depicts engineering protoberberine and protopine alkaloid biosynthesis in
30 S. cerevisiae. The optimized protopine production strain is fed the precursor molecule
   norlaudanosoline, which is converted to the key branch point intermediate reticuline by
   three    chromosomally     integrated    methyltransferase   enzymes (Ps60MT, PsCNMT,
   Ps4'OMT). Chromosomally integrated berberine bridge enzyme (PsBBE) transforms (S)
   reticuline to (S)-scoulerine. Two copies (one chromosomally integrated, one expressed from
35 a yeast artificial chromosome) of the cytochrome P450s cheilanthifoline synthase (EcCFS)
   and stylopine synthase (EcSTS) are expressed with a chromosomally integrated copy of a
   cytochrome P450-NADPH reductase from A thaliana (ATR1) to produce the compounds
                                                   45

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   (S)-cheilanthifoline   and (S)-stylopine,     respectively.   Next, tetrahydroprotoberberine-N
   methyltransferase (PsTNMT) converts (S)-stylopine to (S)-cis-N-methylstylopine, then the
   cytochrome P450 cis-N-methylstylopine 14-hydroxylase (PsMSH) produces protopine from
   cis-N-methylstylopine. Both PsTNMT and PsMSH were expressed from a yeast artificial
 5 chromosome. The final engineered protopine production strain contains 11 heterologous
   expression cassettes (seven integrated enzymes and four enzymes expressed from a yeast
   artificial chromosome). Cytochrome P450s (EcSTS, PsMSH, EcCFS), Cytochrome P450
   reductases (ATR1), other enzyme class (Ps60MT, PsCNMT, Ps4'OMT, PsBBE, PsTNMT).
10 2.        Results
   a.        Engineering    an   optimized      microbial   scaffold-producing    strain   for    the
             protoberberine and protopine alkaloids
             The reconstruction of the sanguinarine branch of the BIA biosynthetic pathway was
   targeted, which encompasses several protoberberine and protopine alkaloids, in a yeast
15 production host. The sanguinarine branch is comprised of ten enzymatic steps, four of
   which are catalyzed by plant cytochrome P450s, to reach sanguinarine (the end-product of
   the pathway) from norlaudanosoline (a commercially-available, fed substrate). Several
   downstream enzymes in this pathway have been cloned and characterized, allowing the
   engineering of a microbial production strain for intermediate metabolites along the
20 sanguinarine branch.
             The BIA metabolite scoulerine is a scaffold from which one can access the
   protoberberine and protopine alkaloid structures in the sanguinarine branch. A yeast strain
   that had been previously engineered to produce scoulerine from the fed substrate
   norlaudanosoline was used (Hawkins, K. & Smolke, C. Production of benzylisoquinoline
25 alkaloids in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Nat. Chem. Biol. 4, 564-573 (2008)). This strain
   expressed four plant enzymes;            the three methyltransferase      (Papaver somniferum
   norcoclaurine       6-0-m ethyltransf erase,    Ps60MT;       P.    somniferum      coclaurine-N
   methyltransf erase,     PsCNMT;       P.    somniferum     3'hydroxy-N-methylcoclaurine      4'-0
   m ethyltransferase, Ps4'OMT) expression cassettes were integrated into the chromosome,
30 and the expression cassette encoding the enzyme that converts the key branch point
   metabolite reticuline to the scaffold scoulerine (P. somniferum berberine bridge enzyme,
   PsBBE) was placed into a high-copy plasmid.
             To optimize the strain for greater flux through the sanguinarine branch, scoulerine
   production was increased by integrating the PsBBE expression cassette into the yeast
35 chromosome. The strains were fed 4 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours.
   Samples of the growth media were analyzed using high pressure liquid chromatography
   coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and production of scoulerine was confirmed by
                                                    46

    WO 2014/143744                                                        PCT/US2014/027833
   comparison of the fragmentation pattern (MS-MS) to reported fragmentation patterns
   (Schmidt, J. & Raith, K. Analysis of benzylisoquinoline-type alkaloids by electrospray
   tandem mass spectrometry and atmospheric pressure photoionization. Eur. J. Mass
   Spectrom. 11, 325-333 (2005)). By changing expression of PsBBE from a high-copy
 5 plasmid to the chromosome, the production of scoulerine was increased by 3-fold to 1.5
   mg/L and improved the conversion efficiency of reticuline to scoulerine from 20% to 64%.
   b.       Engineering an optimized microbial production host for cheilanthifoline
            The first dedicated step in the sanguinarine branch is the conversion of the scaffold
10 molecule scoulerine to cheilanthifoline by the enzyme cheilanthifoline synthase (CFS), the
   first cytochrome P450 in this pathway (Figure 12a). As plant cytochrome P450s have been
   a challenge to functionally express in microbial hosts, various strategies were examined to
   support functional heterologous expression of this P450 enzyme and optimize its activity in
   yeast.
15          The pairing of various plant cytochrome CPRs with CFS variants expressed at
   different levels was first examined. Variants of CFS from three native plant hosts were
   codon optimized and synthesized - E. californica (EcCFS), A. mexicana (AmCFS), and P.
   somniferum (PsCFS). The CFS variants were expressed on either a high-copy or low-copy
   plasmid from a strong yeast promoter (pGPD). Three plant CPR expression cassettes,
20 encoding A. thaliana (ATR1), E. californica (EcCPR), and P. somniferum (PsCPR) CPRs,
   were integrated into the yeast chromosome and tested with each of the CFS variants.
   Although EcCPR and PsCPR originate from the same plant species as the CFS variants,
   plants have multiple CPR variants and the particular CPRs selected may not support CFS
   activity. While ATR1 originates from a plant species that does not produce BIA molecules,
25 this CPR has been used to support heterologous P450 activity in yeast (Urban, P.,
   Mignotte, C., Kazmaier, M., Delorme, F. & Pompon, D. Cloning, yeast expression, and
   characterization of the coupling of two distantly related Arabidopsis thaliana NADPH
   cytochrome P450 reductases with P450 CYP73A5. J. Biol. Chem. 272, 19176-86 (1997)).
   Strains harboring all combinations of CPR variants and CFS variants were fed 2 mM
30 norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours. Samples of the growth media were analyzed
   using LC-MS. Cheilanthifoline production was confirmed through comparison of the
   observed fragmentation pattern to reported fragmentation patterns (Figure 12b).
        The data demonstrates that the specific CPR pairing and P450 expression level can
   substantially impact the functional activity of the plant P450 in a heterologous microbial
35 host. Specifically, ATR1 supported activity of all CFS variants was 20-50 fold better than
   any of the other tested CPR variants and produced up to 600 pg/L cheilanthifoline (Figure
   12c). While the native yeast CPR and EcCPR were able to support a low level of activity
                                                  47

    WO 2014/143744                                                        PCT/US2014/027833
   from EcCFS and AmCFS, the PsCPR did not couple with any of the expressed P450s. All
   CFS variants resulted in cheilanthifoline production when paired with an appropriate CPR;
   however, EcCFS and AmCFS were substantially more active than PsCFS. The difference in
   activity observed between the EcCFS and AmCFS variants in yeast is supported by the
 5 difference in the reported Km values for these enzymes (EcCFS, 900 nM; AmCFS, 1.9 pM;
   PsCFS, no reported Km). The data also demonstrates that cheilanthifoline production levels
   were substantially higher when the CFS variants were expressed from low-copy plasmids
   than when expressed from high-copy plasmids.
            P450s naturally localize to the endoplasm reticulum (ER), and overexpression of
10 these enzymes in yeast can cause a stress response in which the ER membranes
   proliferate. The activity data, suggests that high-level expression of plant P450s in yeast
   can overwhelm the ER and impair the activity of the enzymes. To examine P450
   concentration and subcellular localization as a function of expression level in live cells, the
   CFS variants were C-terminally tagged with EGFP in high-copy and low-copy plasmids and
15 cells harboring these constructs were analyzed by confocal microscopy. ER localization of
   the tagged enzymes was confirmed by co-localization with the ER marker DsRed-Kar2
   HDEL (Figure 12d).
           Two major differences were observed between the cells expressing the tagged CFS
   variants from high-copy or low-copy plasmids. First, a significant reduction in the number of
20 GFP positive cells was observed in cells harboring a P450-GFP fusion construct compared
   to a GFP-only construct, and the difference was more significant when the fusion was
   expressed from a high-copy plasmid (27%) than from a low-copy plasmid (56%). The data
   suggest that the cell's ability to maintain a plasmid expressing a cytochrome P450 enzyme
   is reduced in comparison to a plasmid expressing a fluorescent reporter, and that
25 expression of plant P450s from low-copy plasmids results in more stable expression across
   the cell population and thus may result in higher bulk activity. Second, the morphology of
   the ER was distinct between cells harboring the P450-GFP expression cassettes in high
   and low-copy plasmids. In cells harboring the high-copy plasmids, the P450-GFP fusion
   proteins were generally observed in highly concentrated bright patches adjacent to the
30 nucleus or plasma membrane. In contrast, in cells harboring the low-copy plasmids, the ER
   membranes remained distributed throughout the cell and GFP fluorescence levels were
   dim, indicating a lower concentration of P450s. Thus, under conditions in which the plant
   P450 was expressed at lower levels the morphology of the ER membrane in these
   engineered cells was more similar to that of wild type cells. Taken together, the confocal
35 microscopy and functional activity data suggest that high-level expression of plant P450s
   can cause extreme ER proliferation, which is highly stressful to the yeast host and is
   detrimental to the activity of the enzyme. Thus, the optimal expression strategy for plant
                                                  48

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   P450s in a heterologous yeast host is from low-copy plasmids or stable integrations into the
   chromosome (Figure 12e).
            Finally, the impact of plant P450 expression level and regulation on cheilanthifoline
   production in the yeast host was examined. Cheilanthifoline production was examined from
 5 engineered pathway variants in which CFS was expressed in a low-copy plasmid under the
   control of five different promoters: pGPD (level: strong, regulation: early), pTEF1 (strong,
   constitutive), pPGK1 (medium, early), pTP1 (medium, early), and pHXT7 (strong, late). As
   before, strains harboring the indicated constructs were fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and
   grown for 96 hours at the indicated conditions. Samples of the growth media were analyzed
10 with LC-MS. The GPD promoter provided up to a 12-fold improvement in cheilanthifoline
   production compared to the other promoters tested (Figure 12f). The data indicate that both
   expression level and regulation strategy play roles in optimizing the activity of plant P450s
   in a heterologous yeast host. For example, the TEF promoter exhibits similar strength as
   pGPD, with a different regulatory profile and pPGK1 exhibits a similar regulatory profile as
15 pGPD with a different strength; however, each of these promoters resulted in different
   cheilanthifoline production levels. These results indicate that an optimized cheilanthifoline
   producing yeast strain was engineered to express the plant P450 EcCFS at low levels
   (either from a low-copy plasmid or chromosomally integrated under the control of a GPD
   promoter) and to pair this plant P450 with the ATRI CPR. This engineered strain produced
20 up to 600 pg/L cheilanthifoline and was able to convert up to 38% of the scoulerine.
            Figure 12 depicts microbial production of (S)-cheilanthifoline. (a) Schematic
   depicting the transformation of norlaudanosoline to (S)-cheilanthifoline with an emphasis on
   the enzymatic steps optimized. Dashed arrows indicate multiple enzymatic steps. Scheme
   labels follows that depicted in Figure 11. (b) LC-MS analysis of growth media of yeast
25 strains fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours. LC-MS traces show the vector
   control strain (left) produces scoulerine (peak 3) but no peak in 326 EIC. When the EcCFS
   enzyme is expressed (right), a peak is detected in the 326 EIC (peak 4), and the
   fragmentation (MS-MS, below) confirms the identity of the metabolite as cheilanthifoline. (c)
   (S)-cheilanthifoline production is dependent on enzyme variant and cytochrome P450
30 NADPH reductase partner pairing. Variants of cheilanthifoline synthase (CFS) from E.
   californica (EcCFS), A. mexicana (AmCFS) and P. somniferum (PsCFS) were expressed
   from low copy plasmids in yeast strains with cytochrome P450 reductase enzymes (CPRs)
   from either the native yeast or various plant sources (A. thaliana, E. californica, P.
   somniferum) integrated into the TRP locus. (d) P450 expression level results in distinct ER
35 morphology. EcCFS C-terminally tagged with GFP on high copy (top) or low copy (middle)
   plasmids localize to the endoplasmic reticulum, but show distinct morphologies of ER
   proliferation. Wild type ER (no heterologous P450 expressed) is shown for comparison
                                                 49

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   (bottom). Percentages indicate proportion of the yeast population that are GFP positive
   under the indicated expression condition. (e) Stable expression (low copy plasmid or
   chromosomal integration) of CFS improves cheilanthifoline production and conversion
   efficiency of scoulerine. EcCFS was expressed either on a high copy plasmid (2 micron,
 5 TRP selection marker), low copy plasmid (CEN/ARS, TRP selection marker), or integrated
   into the MET15 locus of the yeast chromosome. (f) Promoter choice affects CFS activity.
   EcCFS was expressed form a low copy plasmid with URA selection under the control of 5
   different promoters (GPD, HXT7, PGK1, TEF, TP11). Data in (c, d) are representative of at
   least 3 independent experiments, and data in (e, f) are reported as mean ± s.d. of at least 3
10 independent experiments.
   c.       Engineering an optimized microbial production host for stylopine
           The next step in the sanguinarine branch is the conversion of cheilanthifoline to
   stylopine by stylopine synthase (STS), a plant cytochrome P450 closely related to CFS
15 (Figure 13). As a starting point in engineering stylopine-producing strains, the P450
   optimization strategies elucidated with CFS were utilized; specifically, (i) expressing the
   plant P450 from a low-copy plasmid, (ii) controlling the expression of the P450 from the
   GPD promoter, and (iii) pairing the P450 with the ATR1 CPR. However, since the
   biosynthetic pathway to stylopine includes two plant P450s, additional strategies were
20 examined for further optimizing the activities of these enzymes within the context of the
   multi-step pathway.
           The pairings of plant variants of STS and CFS were first examined to explore any
   synergistic effects between particular pairings. Variants of STS from E californica (EcSTS),
   A. mexicana (AmSTS), and P. somniferum (PsSTS) were yeast codon optimized and
25 synthesized. Yeast strains with the ATR1 CPR expression cassette integrated into the
   chromosome and harboring different combinations of CFS and STS variants on low-copy
   plasmids were fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours. Samples of the growth
   media were analyzed with LC-MS. Stylopine production was confirmed through comparison
   of the elution time and fragmentation pattern to a standard (ChromoDex) and reported
30 fragmentation patterns (Figure 13b). The data demonstrate that heterologous expression of
   both EcSTS and PsSTS result in stylopine production in the engineered yeast strains,
   whereas AmSTS was not active under these conditions. AmSTS is also reported to convert
   scoulerine to nandinine; however, this product was not detected. The most productive P450
   enzyme pairing was EcCFS and EcSTS, which produced 14 pg/L stylopine, up to a 6-fold
35 improvement over the other combinations of enzymes (Figure 13c). The difference in
   activity observed between the STS variants in yeast is supported by the difference in the
   reported Km values for these enzymes (EcSTS, 400 nM; AmSTS, 5.2 pM; PsSTS, no
                                                 50

    WO 2014/143744                                                             PCT/US2014/027833
   reported Km). However, even with the most productive P450 pairings, the conversion
   efficiency of cheilanthifoline to stylopine was only 25%.
            Methods    were     next   investigated    to  improve  the   conversion   efficiency of
   cheilanthifoline to stylopine. The effect of growth temperature on plant P450 activity in our
 5 heterologous yeast host was examined. Yeast strains harboring the biosynthetic pathway
   with EcCFS paired with each STS variant were grown at 30 C and 25 C. As before, strains
   harboring the indicated constructs were fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours
   at the indicated conditions. Samples of the growth media were analyzed using LC-MS.
   Stylopine production in strains expressing EcCFS and EcSTS increased by 3-fold to a titer
10 of 40 pg/L when the strains were grown at 25CC compared to 300C (Figure 13d). The data
   indicate the strains are more productive on a per OD basis, meaning that the improved
   production of stylopine is due to an increase in the bulk activity of the enzymes, not due to
   higher cell density. It is likely that the effects on general yeast cellular processes as a result
   of changing these conditions resulted in improved folding and localization of the P450s, and
15 thus improved activities.
            Varying the gene copy number ratio of CFS and STS was examined. Experiments
   expressing the enzymes from plasmids indicated that a 2:2 ratio of CFS to STS resulted in a
   3-fold increase in stylopine production compared to a 1:1 ratio (Figure 13e). Taken together,
   the data indicates that an optimized stylopine-producing yeast strain was engineered to
20 express EcCFS and EcSTS with an optimal gene copy number ratio of 2:2 and when grown
   at 250C produced stylopine and improved the conversion efficiency of scoulerine to
   cheilanthifoline and the conversion of cheilanthifoline to stylopine.
            Figure 13 depicts optimization of (S)-stylopine production. (A) Schematic depicting
   the transformation of norlaudanosoline to (S)-stylopine with an emphasis on the enzymatic
25 steps optimized. Dashed arrows indicate multiple enzymatic steps. Scheme labels follows
   that depicted in Figure 11. (B) LC-MS analysis was performed of the growth media of yeast
   strains fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours. LC-MS traces show the vector
   control strain produces cheilanthifoline (peak 4, m/z=326) but no peak in the m/z=324 EIC.
   When the EcSTS enzyme is expressed, a peak is detected in the m/z=324 EIC (peak 5),
30 which elutes at the same time as the stylopine standard. The fragmentation of the stylopine
   standard (MS-MS) matches the fragmentation of peak 5, confirming the identity of the
   metabolite as stylopine. LC-MS traces were representative of at least three independent
   experiments. (C) Stylopine production varies with the combination of the species variants of
   CFS and STS. All pairings of CFS and STS variants were expressed from separate low
35 copy plasmids. (D) Growth of the engineered yeast strains at 250C improves STS activity.
   Each variant of STS was expressed with EcCFS (on separate low copy plasmids) and
   grown at either 250 or 30*C. Gene copy number of CFS and STS affects stylopine
                                                      51

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   production. (E) Gene copy number was varied by integrating a copy of the EcCFS
   expression cassette into the chromosome in the MET15 locus and expressing additional
   copies of EcCFS and EcSTS on low-copy plasmids. The strain variants in this experiment
   all harbored three plasmids regardless of P450 copy number to ensure that plasmid load
 5 and media composition were consistent. The data demonstrate that increasing copies of the
   two plant P450s generally resulted in increased stylopine production. The highest stylopine
   production resulted from two copies of EcCFS and two copies of EcSTS, which improved
   production levels be approximately 3-fold compared to the original expression system (one
   copy of each enzyme).
10
   d.      Engineering a microbial production host for (S)-cis-N-methylstylopine and protopine
           The next step in the pathway is the conversion of stylopine to (S)-cis-N
   methylstylopine by the enzyme tetrahydroprotoberberine-N-methyltransferase             (TNMT)
   (Figure 14a). TNMT was added to a YAC containing EcCFS and EcSTS, which was
15 expressed in a strain with integrated copies of EcCFS and EcSTS. Strains harboring the
   indicated construct were fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours at 250C, and
   samples of the growth media were analyzed with LC-MS. The production of cis-N
   methylstylopine was confirmed by comparison of the fragmentation pattern to reported
   fragmentation patterns (Figure 14b). When TNMT is expressed in the optimized stylopine
20 producing strain, cis-N-methylstylopine is produced and stylopine cannot be detected in the
   media, suggesting that TNMT is highly efficient and able to reach 100% conversion
   efficiency.
           The final step in protopine synthesis is the hydroxylation of (S)-cis-N-methylstylopine
   by the cytochrome P450 (S)-cis-N-methylstylopine 14-hydroxylase (MSH). The optimization
25 techniques for cytochrome P450s were applied to MSH expression, including expression
   from a stable construct, in this case a YAC, and pairing with the ATRI reductase partner.
   Strains harboring the indicated construct were fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96
   hours at 25*C. Protopine production was confirmed through comparison of the elution time
   and fragmentation pattern to a standard and reported fragmentation patterns (Figure 14c).
30 The data indicates that MSH is a highly efficient enzyme, such that the optimized protopine
   producing strain protopine and achieves conversion of cis-N-methylstylopine to protopine.
           Figure 14 depicts engineering of a heterologous protopine biosynthesis pathway. (A)
   Schematic depicting the transformation of norlaudanosoline to protopine with an emphasis
   on the enzymatic steps optimized. Dashed arrows indicate multiple enzymatic steps.
35 Scheme labels follows that depicted in Figure 11. (B) LC-MS analysis was performed of
   growth media of yeast strains fed 2 mM norlaudanosoline and grown for 96 hours. LC-MS
   traces showed that the vector control strain produces stylopine (peak 5, m/z=324) but no
                                                  52

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   peaks in the m/z=338 or 354 EICs. When the TNMT enzyme is expressed, a peak is
   detected in the m/z=338 EIC (peak 6) and the fragmentation (MS-MS) confirms the identity
   of the metabolite as cis-N-methylstylopine. (C) When MSH is added, a peak is detected in
   the m/z=354 EIC, which elutes at the same time as the protopine standard and the
 5 fragmentation (MS-MS) of the protopine standard matches the fragmentation of peak 7
   (m/z=354), confirming the identity of the metabolite as protopine. LC-MS traces were
   representative of at least three independent experiments.
   5.      Optimization of culture conditions for protoberberine         and protopine alkaloid
10         production
           To produce more cheilanthifoline or stylopine, yeast strains were constructed to
   overexpress cytochrome b5 to optimize the activity of cytochrome P450s. Cytochrome b5
   with CFS and STS. Cheilanthifoline and/or stylopine production from host cells with and
   without cytochrome b5 overexpressed was measured. Cultures were grown in the presence
15 of norlaudanosoline and products were detected in the media with LCMS. The data
   demonstrate that in some cases the levels of cheilanthifoline (e.g., with AmCFS) and/or
   stylopine (e.g., with EcCFS/AmSTS) is increased when cytochrome b5 is expressed.
           To produce more protoberberine alkaloids the yeast strain is optimized by the
   deletion of genes associated with the unfolded protein response and endoplasmic reticulum
20 (ER) proliferation to improve BIA production. Examples of gene deletions include IRE1,
   HACI, OP11, INO1, INO2, and IN03 (Table 3). Expression of cytochrome P450s induces
   the unfolded protein response and causes the ER to proliferate. Deletion of genes
   associated with these stress responses can control or reduce overall burden on the host cell
   and improve pathway performance.
25         Genes involved in the pleiotropic drug response, including ATP-binding cassette
   (ABC) transporters, multidrug resistance (MDR) pumps and associated transcription factors,
   are deleted in the host strain to reduce the export of BIA molecules into the culture medium.
   Examples of genes include PDR1, STB5, PDR3, PDR5, SNQ2, YOR1, TPO1, TPO2,
   TPO3, TPO4, PDR10, PDR11, PDR15, PDR16, PDR17, QDR1, QDR2, QDR3, FLR1,
30 AQR1, AQR2, and CIN5. Gene deletions include single deletions or multiple deletions in
   any combination.
           BIA production in transporter knockouts. The measurement of reticuline, scoulerine,
   cheilanthifoline and stylopine production from host cells with modification of various proteins
   involved in transport of compounds across the cell membrane was performed: dPDR1,
35 dPDR5, dsNQ2, dYOR1, dPDR3, dCIN5 and dPDR1dPDR3 knockouts were compared to a
   WT control. Cultures were grown in the presence of norlaudanosoline and products were
   detected in the media with LCMS after growing for 96 hours. The data demonstrate that
                                                 53

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   some modifications (e.g., deletions) produce higher levels of reticuline, scoulerine,
   cheilanthifoline or stylopine than others.
           Genes involved in the pleiotropic drug response, including ATP-binding cassette
   (ABC) transporters, multidrug resistance (MDR) pumps and associated transcription factors,
 5 are placed under the control of a regulated (inducible or growth stage dependent) promoter
   to implement temporal control of BIA transport. One example is to put an important
   transporter gene under the control of a stationary phase promoter which would cause BIAs
   to be retained within the cell until stationary phase, thereby increasing the likelihood starting
   materials are converted to end products.
10
   4.      Methods
   a.      Plasmid and yeast strain construction
           Oligonucleotides were synthesized using conventional methods. Cloning was
   performed with chemically competent E coli (TOP10, LifeTech, F- mcrA A(mrr-hsdRMS
15 mcrBC) <p80lacZAM15 AlacX74 nupG recAl araD139 A(ara-leu)7697 galE15 galK16
   rpsL(StrR) endAl K). E. coli were cultured in Luria-Bertani media (EMD Chemicals) with
   appropriate antibiotic: 100 pg/mL ampicillin (EMD Chemicals) or 50 pg/mL kanamycin (EMD
   Chemicals). Spin columns were used to purify plasmids from E coli cultures according to
   the manufacturer's instructions (Epoch Life Science). Sequencing was performed by Elim
20 Biopharmaceuticals (Hayward, CA). The S. cerevisiae strains described in this work are all
   derived from W303a (MATa leu2-3,112 trpl-1 canl-100 ura3-1 ade2-1 his3-11,15). A
   standard lithium acetate protocol was used for yeast transformations. Yeast were cultured in
   either YPD or appropriate synthetic drop out media for plasmid maintenance and
   supplemented with 2% dextrose (w/v).
25         Gene     sequences      for   EcCFS     (BAG75113),    EcCPR     (AAC05022),      EcSTS
   (BAD98250), and AmSTS (ABR14721) were yeast codon optimized and assembled from
   oligonucleotides designed with DNAWorks (Hoover, D. M. & Lubkowski, J. DNAWorks: an
   automated method for designing oligonucleotides for PCR-based gene synthesis. Nucleic
   Acids   Res.    30,   e43   (2002)).   AmCFS      (ABR14722),    PsCFS    (ADB89213),     PsSTS
30 (ADB89214), and PsMSH (AGC92398) were yeast codon optimized and synthesized by
   GeneArt (Life Technologies).
           Most yeast expression vectors described in this work were constructed with
   Gateway Cloning Technology (Life Technologies). Enzymes were PCR amplified using
   PfuUltrall  Fusion HS DNA Polymerase (Life Technologies) or Expand High Fidelity
35 Polymerase (Roche), cleaned up using QlAquick PCR purification kit (Qiagen) and cloned
   into the pENTR vector through either TOPO cloning or a BP recombination reaction using
   BP clonase 11and the pDONR221 vector (Life Technologies). All genes were subsequently
                                                    54

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   recombined into selected pAG expression vectors from the Lindquist lab (available through
   Addgene) (Alberti, S., Gitler, A. D. & Lindquist, S. A suite of Gateway@ cloning vectors for
   high-throughput     genetic   analysis    in  Saccharomyces      cerevisiae.   913-919   (2007).
   doi:10.1002/yea) using LR Clonase II (Life Technologies). A variety of primers and plasmid
 5 were used in this work. For the assays testing various promoters with EcCFS, pCS2238
   was digested with Sacl/Spel to remove the GPD promoter and TEF1, PGK1, TP11 or HXT7
   promoters were ligated into this site using standard ligation technique
            Yeast artificial chromosomes (YACs) were constructed with the GeneArt Higher
   Order Genetic Assembly System (Life Technologies). DNA fragments were generated
10 through PCR reactions using primers designed with the DNA Designer for Higher Order
   Genetic Assembly and Expand High Fidelity Polymerase (Roche). DNA fragments were
   cleaned with QlAquick PCR purification kit (Qiagen) and 100 ng of each DNA fragment and
   the linear pYES1 L vector were transformed via electroporation into engineered yeast strains
   containing appropriate upstream enzymes. Assembled YACs were recovered from yeast
15 cells according to the manufacturer's instructions.
            For chromosomal integrations, the gene of interest was recombined into pCS2643 or
   pCS2644 using LR clonase II (Life Technologies), and the complete integration cassette
   (gene expression cassette and selection marker) was PCR amplified with the appropriate
   integration primers and Expand High Fidelity Polymerase (Roche) to add approximately 80
20 nucleotides of homology. The PCR products from two 100 pL reactions were ethanol
   precipitated and transformed into yeast using a standard lithium acetate procedure.
   Integration was verified through PCR screening across the junctions of the targeted locus
   and the expression cassette. The integration selection markers were flanked by loxP sites
   to facilitate selection marker rescue and strains were transformed with pCS277 (pSH63)
25 which encodes expression of CRE recombinase (GOldener et al. A new efficient gene
   disruption cassette for repeated use in budding yeast. Nucleic Acids Res. 24, 2519-24
   (1996)). The strains were grown in YPD for 36 hours with 10OX back-dilutions every 12
   hours then plated to single colonies. Loss of the selection marker and the plasmid were
   verified through restreaking colonies on appropriate selective media.
30
   b.       Imaging P450 localization in live cells with confocal microscopy
            Yeast cell cultures were inoculated into 3 mL of selective media and grown for 8-12
   hours, to an approximate OD600 of 0.1. 1 mL of culture was pelleted at 6000 rpm for 30
   seconds, the supernatant discarded and the cells resuspended in 25-50 pL media. 1-3 pL of
35 culture were mounted on 2% agarose pads made with appropriate drop-out media to
   provide cells with nutrients to facilitate live cell imaging. Live yeast cells were imaged with
   Leica SP5 multiphoton/confocal microscope equipped with a 63.Ox glycerine immersion
                                                    55

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   objective.
   c.      Growth conditions for assays
           Overnight yeast cultures were started in drop-out medium with 2% dextrose (w/v) in
   3 mL test tube cultures and grown at 300C, 260 rpm or in 500 pL cultures in deep well 96
 5 well plates covered with AeraSeal film and grown at 300C, 480 rpm, 80% humidity in a
   Kuhner Lab-Therm LX-T 96-well plate shaker.
           Overnight cultures were back-diluted 75-1 OX into appropriate dropout media
   supplemented with 2-4 mM norlaudanosoline. More specifically, some assays were
   conducted with 500 pL cultures in deep well 96 well plates covered with AeraSeal film and
10 grown at 300C, 480 rpm, 80% humidity in a Kuhner Lab-Therm LX-T 96-well plate shaker.
   Other assays were conducted using 5 mL cultures grown in 125 mL baffled flasks at 250C,
   260rpm in a New Brunswick Scientific 124 shaking incubator. Unless otherwise indicated,
   cultures were sampled 96 hours following back-dilution.
15 e.      Analysis of metabolite production
           Aliquots of yeast cultures were centrifuged at 6000 rpm for 10 minutes and growth
   media samples were taken for analysis by LC-MS/MS. Samples were run on Agilent
   ZORBAX SB-Aq 4.6x50 mm, 5 pm column with 0.1% acetic acid as solvent A and methanol
   with 0.1% acetic acid as solvent B. The following method for the separation of metabolites
20 of interest was used with a constant flow rate of 0.5 mL/min: 0-1 min, 0% to 27.5% B; 1-2
   min, 27.5% B; 2-8 min, 27.5% to 60% B; 8-8.5, 35 to 100% B; 8.5-14 min, 100% B; followed
   by a 6 minute equilibration at 0% solvent B. After separation by HPLC, metabolites were
   injected into an Agilent 6320 ion trap mass spectrometer for detection and identification.
           Quantification of metabolites was based on integrated peak area of the extracted ion
25 chromatogram peaks calculated using DataAnalysis for 6300 Series Ion Trap LC/MS
   version 3.4 (Bruker Daltonik GmbH) and reported as the mean ± s.d. We generated
   standard curves for reticuline, stylopine, and berberine and used the most similar standard
   chemical structure to estimate concentration of intermediates for which no standard was
   available.
30
   Ill.    Protoberberine-producing yeast strains
           Strains of S. cerevisiae were developed that produce protoberberine alkaloids;
   including (S)-tetrahydrocolumbamine, (S)-canadine, and berberine; as intermediates or final
   products, from (S)-scoulerine or its precursors produced by an existing engineered strain,
35 present in the culture media, or introduced to a cell lysate or lysate fraction. More
   specifically, these strains express any combination of (S)- scoulerine 9-0
                                                 56

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   methyltransf erase (S90MT), (S)- canadine synthase (CAS), (S)-tetrahydroprotoberberine
   oxidase (STOX).
            The structure of protoberberine alkaloids produced by engineered yeast strains is
   described above, where -R may be -H, -CH3, -OH, or -OR. These protoberberine alkaloids
 5 are produced from reticuline or other similar chemical species produced by an existing
   engineered strain, present in the culture media, or introduced to a cell lysate or lysate
   fraction. These strains may express any combination of the following enzymes: berberine
   bridge enzyme (BBE), scoulerine 9'-O-methyltransf erase (S90MT), canadine synthase
   (CAS), and S-tetrahydroprotoberberine oxidase (STOX).
10          Figure 5 depicts the heterologous biosynthetic pathway supported by the engineered
   yeast strains. The gene STOX shares 78% nucleic acid sequence identity with the naturally
   occurring gene B. wilsonae (S)-tetrahydroprotoberberine oxidase (Table 2). This gene is a
   non-natural nucleotide sequence, codon-optimized for yeast expression.
            Figure 6 depicts the effect of episomal gene copy number on protoberberine
15 production in yeast cultures. The favored expression levels for the enzymes are relatively
   low (e.g., CEN/ARS vector or genomic expression) for BBE, CAS, and STOX (Figure 6a)
   and relatively high (e.g., 2 pm vector or multiple genomic copies) for S90MT (Figure 6b).
   The expression levels may be altered by changing the strength of the constitutive promoter,
   using an inducible promoter, changing the number of copies of each gene episomally or
20 genomically (Figure 6c), altering the selection marker, and/or culture conditions
   corresponding to promoter activity or selection.
            The effect of episomal gene copy number on protoberberine production was
   determined by assays performed in yeast cultures (Figure 6). (a) For CAS, 4 mM
   norlaudanosoline was added to the media of a tetrahydrocolumbamine-producing strain with
25 CAS expressed from either a multi-copy 2 pm plasmid or a single copy CEN/ARS plasmid.
   For STOX, 250 pM canadine was added to the media of a strain expressed from either a
   multi-copy 2 um plasmid or a single copy CEN/ARS plasmid. (b) 4 mM norlaudanosoline
   was added to the media of scoulerine-producing strains expressing the listed plasmids. For
   both experiments, after 72 h growth yeast were pelleted by centrifugation and the media
30 was analyzed by LC-MS. Positive ion electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectra were
   obtained with an Agilent 6320 Ion Trap (electrospray capillary voltage -3.5 kV; heated
   capillary temperature 350 *C; sheath gas: nitrogen) coupled to an Agilent 1200 Series
   HPLC equipped with an Agilent Zorbax SB-Aq column (3.0 x 50 mm 1.8 micron) and an
   Agilent Zorbax SB-Aq guard column (2.1 x 12.5 mm 5 micron). The LC separation method
35 was isocratic elution with H20 for 1 min, gradient elution to H20:CH 3OH 75:25 over 3 min,
   gradient elution to 100% CH30H over 1 min, and finally isocratic elution for 4 min with a
   flow rate of 0.6 mL min-1. Both solvents were 0.1% acetic acid. Extracted ion
                                                  57

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   chromatograms for the product extracted ion chromatograms for the molecular ion were
   plotted and manually integrated. Error bars are S.D. of three biological replicates. (c) Copy
   number is rank-order correlated with expression level. Samples were prepared from
   overnight cultures of yeast strains with the indicated plasmid as described by Kushnirov et
 5 al. (2000). Yeast 16, 857-860, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Following
   SDS-PAGE, proteins were transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane, which was blocked for
   1 hour in 5 % BSA and then probed with HRP-conjugated anti-HA antibody overnight. The
   membrane was imaged following incubation with enhanced chemiluminescent HRP
   substrate.
10         The effect of cytochrome P450-NADPH reductase partners on CAS activity was
   investigated (Figure 6d). The co-expression of the cytochrome P450 reductase ATR1 with
   CAS resulted in higher CAS activity than E californica CPR, A. thaliana ATR2, P.
   somniferum CPR, or endogenous yeast CPR. Assays were performed in vivo with 4 mM
   norlaudanosoline in yeast expressing CAS from a multi-copy plasmid. Positive ion
15 electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectra were obtained as described herein. Extracted ion
   chromatograms for the product standard molecular ion were plotted and manually
   integrated. The data were normalized such that the peak area in the absence of CPR = 1.
           Functional expression of STOX in yeast culture was observed. Assays were
   performed in vivo with 250 pM canadine (m/z=340) in yeast expressing STOX from
20 CEN/ARS plasmid. Positive ion electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectra were obtained
   as described for Figure 6. Extracted ion chromatograms for the berberine product
   (m/z=336) and a 1 uM berberine standard molecular ion were plotted and smoothed using
   the Gauss processing tool for 1 cycle at the default smoothing width in DataAnalysis for
   6300 Series Ion Trap LC/MS v. 3.4.
25          In order to enhance the accumulation of BIAs within the yeast cell, heterologous
   transporters, for example plant ATP-binding cassette proteins from BIA-producing plants,
   are expressed in the engineered strains. These transporters are CjABCB1, CjABCB2,
   and/or CjABCB2 and act to accumulate berberine within the yeast cell.
           Figure 7 depicts in vivo production of berberine from norlaudanosoline. The
30 production of reticuline, scoulerine, tetrahydrocolumbamine, canadine, and berberine was
   demonstrated from cultures of host cells expressing SOMT, CAS, BBE, and STOX from a
   YAC; having a second copy of SOMT on a high copy 2 pm plasmid; ATR1 integrated; and
   three enzymes to convert norlaudanosoline to reticuline integrated. Assays were performed
   with 4 mM norlaudanosoline in yeast cultures for 96 h. Products were identified in media by
35 LC-MS as described for Figure 6: Reticuline m/z 330, scoulerine m/z 328,
   tetrahydrocolumbamine m/z 342, canadine m/z340 and berberine m/z 336. The MS/MS
                                                  58

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   spectra for m/z 336 demonstrates that product 5 is berberine, as this spectra matched the
   spectra of a berberine standard.
   IV.     Thebaine-producing yeast strains
 5         Yeast strains were engineered that produce thebaine, as an intermediate or final
   product, from salutaridine or its precursors produced by an existing engineered strain,
   present in the culture media, or introduced to a cell lysate or lysate fraction. More
   specifically, these strains express any combination of salutaridine reductase (SaIR) and
   salutaridinol 7- O-acetyltransferase (SalAT).
10         Figure 8 depicts the heterologous biosynthetic pathway supported by the engineered
   yeast strains.
           Figure 9 depicts the conversion of salutaridine to thebaine in crude lysate of
   engineered yeast. The functional expression of both SaIR and SaIAT was observed by
   monitoring ion counts (EIC) m/z=312 peak areas, which results in the production of
15 thebaine from salutaridine. Strains containing P. bracteatum SaIR produced greater
   thebaine than strains containing, P. somniferum SaIR. Strains containing SaIR with the
   F1 04A or 1275A mutation produced greater thebaine than strains containing SaIR without
   these mutations. The combination of enzymes may also include any of the codon-optimized
   variants of SaIAT listed in Table 2. Assays were performed with 100 pM salutaridine and 50
20 pM NADPH in crude lysate of yeast expressing SaIR and SaIAT from the genome. Positive
   ion electrospray ionization (ESI) mass spectra were obtained as described for Figure 6.
   Extracted ion chromatograms for the product standard molecular ion were plotted and
   manually integrated.
           The SaIAT genes share less than or equal to 80% nucleic acid sequence identity
25 with their naturally occurring counterparts (Table 3). These genes are non-natural
   nucleotide sequences, codon-optimized for yeast expression.
           The conversion of salutaridine to thebaine catalyzed by SaIR and SaIAT occurs in a
   crude lysate of the yeast strain expressing both enzymes supplemented by the cofactor
   NADPH (Figure 9).
30         SaIAT and SaIR are also expressed in engineered strains expressing additional
   enzymes such that the strain produces products for which thebaine is a precursor. For
   example, the strain may produce oripavine, morphine, codeine, hydromorphone,
   hydrocodone, oxycodone, and/or oxymorphone.
           The conversion of salutaridine to thebaine catalyzed by SaIR and SaIAT occurs in
35 an engineered yeast strain modified to produce increased amounts of NADPH (Table 2).
            The yeast strain is engineered to increase production of salutaridinol or thebaine or
   products for which thebaine is a precursor from reticuline or its precursors by localizing
                                                  59

    WO 2014/143744                                                       PCT/US2014/027833
   SaIR and/or SaIAT to organelles in the yeast cell. For example, SaIR and/or SaIAT may be
   localized to the yeast endoplasmic reticulum in order to decrease the spatial distance
   between SaIR and/or SaIAT and CYP2D6 or SalSyn or an engineered cytochrome P450
   enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of reticuline to salutaridine.
 5
   V.      Opiate-producing yeast strains
   A.      Example 1
   1.      Introduction
           The following section describes the production and characterization of yeast to
10 support the final steps in opiate biosynthesis, yielding strains that can produce naturally
   occurring opiates and semi-synthetic opioids. The results described herein highlight that the
   loss of native regulation strategies upon transfer of a plant biosynthetic pathway to a
   microbial host can result in new pathway branches that direct flux toward undesired
   byproducts. To restore and control pathway specificity, a general organelle routing toolkit
15 was created that directs enzymes to specific native cellular compartments. This toolkit was
   used in a novel spatial engineering approach to actively delocalize plant pathway enzymes
   to yeast endomembranes, thus increasing specificity of morphine production over the
   byproduct neomorphine from 44% up to 96%. Heterologous morphine biosynthesis was
   further optimized by increasing supply of the co-substrate 2-oxoglutarate and titrating gene
20 copy number to balance pathway flux. By incorporating bacterial enzymes within the
   heterologous pathway, we demonstrated the biosynthesis of a panel of valuable semi
   synthetic opiates, including up to 51 mg/L hydrocodone, 70 mg/L oxycodone, and 1 mg/L
   hydromorphone, which are typically produced by chemical modification of natural opiates.
   Optimized engineered yeast strains produced 31-132 mg/L total opioid products,
25 demonstrating the development of a microbial biomanufacturing platform to supply natural
   and semi-synthetic opioids to the pharmaceuticals industry.
   2.      Results
   a.      Constructing a morphine biosynthetic pathway in yeast
30         The biosynthesis of morphine from thebaine is catalyzed by three enzymes in P.
   somniferum: the 2-oxoglutarate/Fe2 ,-dependent     dioxygenases T60DM and CODM, and
   NADPH-dependent aldo-keto reductase COR. These enzymes form two biosynthetic routes
   from thebaine to morphine. One route (i) includes a non-enzymatic rearrangement and
   generates intermediates neopinone, codeinone (1), codeine (2), and morphine (4) (Fig. 15).
35 Based on reported substrate affinities of T60DM and CODM, this is the predominant
   pathway in poppy. The minor route (ii) generates            oripavine and morphinone as
   intermediates to morphine (Fig. 15).
                                                  60

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
           Figure 15 depicts engineering a heterologous morphine biosynthesis pathway in
   yeast. The schematic depicts observed transformations of thebaine by the morphine
   biosynthesis enzymes - thebaine 6-0-demethylase (T60DM), codeine O-demethylase
   (CODM), and codeinone reductase (COR) from opium poppy P. somniferum. Two routes to
 5 morphine which pass through intermediates codeinone and codeine (route i) and oripavine
   and morphinone (route ii) occur in opium poppy. Route (i) and a newly-identified route to
   neomorphine (iii) occur in the heterologous context of a yeast cell, demonstrating a broader
   substrate range for COR and CODM.
           To reconstruct a morphine biosynthetic pathway in S. cerevisiae, we expressed
10 yeast codon-optimized T60DM, COR1.3, and CODM each flanked by unique yeast
   promoters and terminators and assembled into a single yeast artificial chromosome (YAC)
   vector (pYES1 L). From the four characterized P. somniferum COR isoforms, COR1.3 was
   selected because it had the highest affinity for codeinone. After culturing this strain with
   thebaine for 96 h, we observed codeinone, codeine, and morphine in the culture medium,
15 demonstrating    that these    heterologous    plant enzymes are       capable of catalyzing
   transformations of opiates in yeast (Figure 15). However, the detected opiate levels were
   low, with morphine production as low as 0.2 mg/L, suggesting that optimization efforts
   would be required to increase conversion efficiencies. Neopinone was not detected in this
   assay, likely because this intermediate is unstable and rearranges to codeinone over the
20 course of the experiment.
           Additional opiates detected in the culture medium indicated differences between the
   biosynthetic routes observed in the natural and heterologous systems. Intermediates from
   the minor route to morphine observed in plants - oripavine and morphinone - were not
   detected in the engineered yeast strain, suggesting that the low activities of each of these
25 enzymes on their alternative substrates precluded detectable levels. However, two other
   products were observed in similar quantities to codeine and morphine. The first had the
   same mass/charge (m/z) ratio as codeine and was determined to be neopine (3) by MS/MS
   analysis. Neopine may be produced by the activity of COR on the direct product of T60DM,
   neopinone, before it rearranges to codeinone (Fig. 15). The second unknown product had
30 the same m/z ratio as morphine and was determined to be neomorphine (5), produced by
   the CODM-catalyzed demethylation of neopine. Therefore, the analysis uncovered a novel,
   but undesired, opiate pathway (iii) in the engineered yeast strain (Fig. 15).
   b.      Increasing supply of the co-substrate 2-oxoglutarate for morphine biosynthesis
35         It was examined whether supply of a key co-substrate, 2-oxoglutarate, was limiting
   in the heterologous morphine biosynthesis pathway. The dioxygenases T60DM and CODM
   require 2-oxoglutarate to accept one oxygen atom in the oxidative demethylation of
                                                  61

    WO 2014/143744                                                        PCT/US2014/027833
   thebaine and codeine, respectively. Thus, it was examined whether increasing 2
   oxoglutarate supply would enhance flux through our engineered biosynthetic pathway.
            In endogenous yeast nitrogen metabolism, glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH)
   enzymes catalyze the interconversion of glutamate and 2-oxoglutarate (Fig. 16). Thus,
 5 increasing glutamate supply can increase the intracellular 2-oxoglutarate pool. Monosodium
   glutamate (MSG), a common nitrogen source, was titrated into the yeast culture medium.
   Glutamine was included in the culture medium as a nitrogen source to ensure the cultures
   were not nitrogen-limited and hence prevent positive growth effects due to MSG
   supplementation. No differences in final cell densities were observed with varying levels of
10 MSG. Upon increasing MSG concentration from 0 to 2.5 g/L an increase in morphine
   production was observed from 0.24 to 0.45 mg/L after 96 h growth (Figure 16b).
            It was next examined whether direct addition of the co-substrate 2-oxoglutarate to
   the culture medium would further enhance flux through the pathway. 2-oxoglutarate was
   titrated into the culture medium up to concentrations of 100 mM. Supplying this co-substrate
15 directly, in addition to 2.5 g/L MSG, increased morphine titers to 2.5 mg/L, a more than 10
   fold increase over the titer observed in standard medium (Figure 16b). All subsequent
   opiate-producing cultures were grown in this optimized culture medium supplemented with
   0.5 g/L glutamine, 2.5 g/L MSG, and 50 mM 2-oxoglutarate.
            Figure 16 depicts enhanced co-substrate 2-oxoglutarate supply increases morphine
20 biosynthesis titers. (a) In yeast metabolism 2-oxoglutarate participates in the tricarboxylic
   acid (TCA) cycle and in nitrogen assimilation where it is reversibly converted to glutamate
   by the activity of glutamate dehydrogenases Gdh1p, Gdh2p and Gdh3p. (b) Synthetic
   complete medium containing 0.5 g/L glutamine as a nitrogen base was supplemented with
   monosodium glutamate (MSG) up to 2.5 g/L, and then with 2-oxoglutarate up to 100 mM. A
25 yeast strain (CSY907) expressing T60DM, COR1.3, and CODMfrom a pYES1 L vector was
   cultured at the indicated culture medium compositions for 96 h in deep-well plates with 1
   mM thebaine. Morphine production levels were determined by LC-MS analysis of the culture
   medium. Error bars show ±1 SD of three biological replicates.
30 c.       Balancing enzyme expression levels to increase morphine titer
            It was next examined whether optimizing relative enzyme expression levels would
   increase pathway flux to morphine. The enzyme COR catalyzes the reversible reduction of
   codeinone to codeine in morphine biosynthesis. COR also catalyzes the reversible
   reduction of neopinone to neopine in yeast (Fig. 15). The presence of these reversible
35 reactions suggested that pathway flux toward the production of codeine, and consequently
   morphine, could be further increased by titrating the expression levels of pathway enzymes.
                                                 62

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
           To examine the combinatorial design space around T60DM, COR, and CODM
   expression levels, strains with varied gene copy numbers were constructed for each of the
   enzymes. In all strains, single copies of T6ODM, COR, and CODM were expressed from a
   YAC vector. Additional copies of one or more genes were integrated with a constitutive
 5 GPD promoter into the host cell genome at auxotrophic loci. The strains were cultured with
   1 mM thebaine in optimized medium (0.5 g/L glutamine, 2.5 g/L MSG, and 50 mM 2
   oxoglutarate) for 96 h in 96-well plates. Morphine and neomorphine titers were compared to
   those of the control strain with only the YAC vector (T6ODM:COR:CODM gene ratio of
   1:1:1).
10         Altering the copy numbers of pathway genes changed the overall opiate titers and
   relative levels of morphine and neomorphine. Increasing the copy number of COR alone
   (e.g., 1:3:1) or together with T6ODM (e.g., 2:2:1) decreased morphine production while
   increasing neomorphine production, such that overall opiate production was similar but
   differed in the ratio of end products (Fig. 17). For example, the control 1:1:1 strain produced
15 2.5 mg/L morphine and 3.7 mg/L neomorphine, a total of 6.2 mg/L end product opiates. In
   contrast, the 1:3:1 strain produced 2.0 mg/L morphine and 4.1 mg/L neomorphine; a
   different ratio of morphine to neomorphine, but a similar total end product titer. Other gene
   copy number combinations within the design space provided increases in morphine and
   total end product titers. For example, increased CODM copy number resulted in higher
20 production levels of both morphine and neomorphine (Fig. 17). This effect was enhanced by
   additional gene copies of T60DM such that one ratio of interest of T60DM:COR:CODM
   was 2:1:3, which produced 5.2 mg/L morphine and 4.8 mg/L neomorphine, a total of 10.0
   mg/L end product opiates in culture medium (Fig. 17).
           The observed relationship between morphine titers and gene copy number ratios
25 suggested two mechanisms of improvement in the engineered strains. First, providing
   additional gene copies of the final enzyme CODM increased the total amount of end
   products produced, e.g., by increasing the rate of conversion of codeine and neopine to
   morphine and neomorphine, respectively, and thus increasing the forward rate of the
   reversible COR reaction. Second, expression level changes that improved overall end
30 product titers also improved specificity for the target product morphine over the byproduct
   neomorphine. Specifically, in the lower yielding 1:3:1 strain morphine comprised 33% of the
   total end product opiates, while in a higher yielding 2:1:3 strain morphine comprised 52%.
   An analysis of pathway conversion efficiencies showed that CODM favors codeine as a
   substrate and thus biases the pathway for morphine production at high copy number. In
35 some cases of balanced copy number strains, non-target neomorphine still accounted for
   almost half the final product.
                                                   63

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   d.       Developing and implementing a localization toolkit to improve pathway specificity
            Earlier engineering efforts indicated that nearly half of the potential morphine yield
   was shunted to the unwanted side-product neomorphine (Fig.                 18), making pathway
   specificity an important engineering challenge. Conversion efficiencies were examined
 5 across the engineered pathway and determined that one cause of the branching from
   morphine to non-target neomorphine is the intervening spontaneous step between the
   reactions catalyzed by T60DM and COR. An engineering strategy in which T60DM and
   COR is spatially separated in the cell may allow additional time for the intervening
   spontaneous rearrangement of neopinone to codeinone (Fig. 18). Specifically, by isolating
10 COR to a yeast organelle it is possible to restrict access of this enzyme to the neopinone
   produced by cytoplasmic T60DM, providing neopinone additional time to rearrange to
   codeinone and ultimately be converted to morphine.
           To address this specificity challenge and more broadly enable spatial engineering
   approaches in yeast, a modular organelle routing toolkit was developed. The toolkit is
15 composed of 6 validated localization tags derived from endogenous yeast proteins. These
   tags route to a variety of yeast organelles: the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), mitochondria
   (MT), plasma membrane (PM), and vacuole (V) (Fig. 21a, b). An ER routing tag ER1, a
   vacuole tag V1, and a plasma membrane tag P1 were developed based on transmembrane
   domains from three proteins within the tail-anchored class of proteins. These 31-35 amino
20 acid tags are sufficient to direct the post-transcriptional localization of a target protein, such
   that the C-terminus inserts into the endomembrane of the assigned organelle and the
   protein is extended into the cytoplasm. To access the internal organelle environment, a
   second ER routing tag called ER2 was designed based on the 28 amino acid
   transmembrane domain of integral membrane protein calnexin. Two additional sequences
25 to localize proteins free within the ER lumen (ER3) and the mitochondrial matrix (MT1) were
   taken from the established ER and mitochondrial markers KAR2-DsRed-HDEL and COX4
   mCherry, respectively. To confirm the targeted localization, each member of the organelle
   routing toolkit was fused to GFP and examined by confocal microscopy (Fig. 18b).
           The organelle routing toolkit was applied to the COR enzyme in the morphine
30 pathway to determine whether physical delocalization of pathway enzymes could increase
   flux to the desired product (morphine) and decrease flux to the undesired product
   (neomorphine). A control strain in which COR1.3 was untagged and thus localized to the
   cytoplasm (CYT) with T60DM and CODM produced 2.5 mg/L morphine with 44% specificity
   after 96 h growth (Figure 19). When the organelle routing toolkit was employed fusing each
35 localization tag to COR to actively route this enzyme to different cellular compartments
   increased specificity (relative production of the desired product) and titer (absolute
   production levels of the desired product) were observed for morphine. COR localization to
                                                   64

     WO 2014/143744                                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   the ER (ER1 tag) and vacuole (V1 tag) facing into the cytoplasm resulted in strains with
   high morphine titers at approximately 3.5 mg/L In contrast, the strain with ER3 tagged
   COR, localized to the ER lumen, had nearly 100% specificity for morphine, but at reduced
   titers of less than I mg/L The localization of COR to the ER-lumen with the ER2 tag
 5  provided a balance of enhanced yields and specificity, resulting in morphine titers of 3.1
    mg/L at 86% specificity, and was carried forward in subsequent experiments.
   Table 5 (below) depicts Organelle Routing Toolkit. Modular targeting sequences were used
   to localize enzymes to organelles in engineered yeast strains. An enzyme selected for
    localization was fused to the targeting sequence using an intervening 7 amino acid tinker of
10  either Gly-SerThr (SEQ ID NO:8) at the N-terminus or ProGly (SEQ ID NO:9) at the C
   terminus,
   Table 5
   Abbreviations ER, endoplasmic reticulum; MT, mitochondra; PM plasma membrane: TM transmembrane domain: V,
   vacuole.
15   Unnanmed tans did no confer modular, stable ioca action to the Predicted compare ment
   Tag     Gene      GenBank ID Encodes                 Organelle length Tag Type            TM   C- or N
                                                                                                  terminus
   ERI     CY35      AAA67468.1   Cylochrome b5         ER             31        Ta anchor   Yes  C         Cytopiasmic
   ER2 CNE1          AAAO5967.1   Cainexin              ER             28        Type ITM    Yes  C         ER lumen
   ER3     KAR2      AAA3471.1    Chaperone             ER             42        Lumenai     No   N         ER lumen
   V1      NYVI      EDN5963Q.1   v-SNARE               V              35         Tai anchor Yes  c         Cytopjasnc
   PMI     SNC1      EEUO7245.1   v-SNARE               PM (ER,        32        Tat anchor  Yes  c         Cytoplasmic
   MT    - COX4      EEUO4676,1   Cytochrome c          MT             22        Mitochondra No   N         Mitochondria
                                  oxidase subunit 4                              import                     matrix
           FISI      AASs617 1    Fission protein                      27       YTat anchor  Yes  C         Cvtopiasmic
           PRCI      AAA34902J1   Carboxypeptidase      V              50        Vacuole     No   N         V umen
                                   Y                                             import
   Tag     Gene      Amino Acid Sequence
   ERI     CYBS      STSENQSKGSGTLVVILAILMLGVAYYLLNE
   ER2     CNEI      ILEOPLKFVLTAAVVLLTTSVLCCVVFT
   ER3     KAR2      MFFNRLSAGKLLVPLSVVLYALFVVILPLONSFHSSNVLVRG
   V1      NYVI      NIKEIMWWQKVKNITLLTFTIILFVSAAFMFFYLW
   PM1     SN 1      WYKDLKMKMCLALV iMLLVVIIVPIAVH FSR
   MT I    CoX4      MLSLRQSIRFFKPATRTLCSSR
           FSI       LKGVVVAGGVLAGAVAVASFFLRNKRR
           PRC1      MKAFTSLLCGLSitUAKA15LQRPtitDK-VutQAAEKFStDLtDWL
   Table 5 continued
   ERi (SEQ   ID NO:  I)
   ER2 (SEQ ID NO:21
   ER3 (SEQ ID NO:3)
20 V1 (SEQ ID NO:5)
   PM1 (SEQ 10 NO:6)
   MT1 (SEQ ID NO:7)
   * FISI (SEQ ID NO:10)
   'PRC     (SEQ ID NO:11)
25
                                                               65

     WO 2014/143744                                                     PCT/US20141027833
   e.       Incorporating microbial enzymes to achieve biological synthesis of semi-synthetic
            opioids
            Bacterium strain Pseudoronas putida MI0, identified in waste from an opium-poppy
   processing factory, performs enzymatic transformations of opioids Two characterized
 5 enzymes from this strain - NADP-dependent morphine dehydrogenase (morA) and NADH
   dependent morphinone reductase (morB) - catalyze many of these reactions MorA, an
   aldo-keto reductase, and morB, an o/p-barrel flavoprotein oxidoreductase, are
   heterologously expressed in E coYl to convert morphine to hydromorphone,
            It was examined whether morA and morB extend the biosynthetic capabilities of the
10 morphine-producing yeast strains to the valuable end products hydrocodone, oxycodone
   and hydromorphone (Fig. 20). In a single YAC, the P. somnnifemrn genes T60DM, COR,
   and CODM and the P. putida genes morA and morB were included. A yeast strain
   transformed with this YAC and cultured with 1 mM thebaine produced only a trace amount
   of hydrocodone and no detectable hydromorphone after 96 h growth,
15
    Engineered yeast strains expressing different combinations of the P, somnierurn and P.
   putida MI enzymes from a pYESIL vector produce different levels of target opioids,
    Genes Expressed-Lo                    s (mg/L in cute Medium
   T16DM.  c0DM. cont3, mOrA, motS   0.21     12 08                           1-ac
             18--DM .-----------              - ------       .4
            An alternative biosynthetic route to the semi-synthetic opioids hydrocodone and
20 hydromorphone was developed. It was first determined whether morA could reduce
   codeinone to codeine in place of COR in the morphine biosynthesis pathway by replacing
    COR with morA in the YAC encoding morphine production. The substitution of morA activity
   for COR resulted in 2.4 mg/L morphine with 69% selectivity, greater than the selectivity of
   any of the untagged COR isoform strains, morB was included to generate a four gene YAC
25 with T60DM, CODM, morA, and morB, A strain with this YAC produced 1.3 mg!L
    hydrocodone and 0.10 mg/L hydromorphone. The opioids dihydrocodeine and
   dihydromophine were also detected, due to morA and morB activity on hydrocodone and
   hydromorphone (Fig, 20 and 23). 14-hydroxycodeine was observed, presumably resulting
   from morA activity on 14-hydroxycodeinone (Figure 23). The hydroxylation of c-odeinone to
30  14-hydroxycodeinone has been observed to occur spontaneously in vfro, Trace amounts of
   another 14-hydroxylated product, oxycodone, were observed presumably due to the activity
   of morB on 14-hydroxycodeinone. Based on these results, a strain expressing only T60DM
   and morB was engineered to increase pathway flux to the morB products hydrocodone and
                                                   66

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   oxycodone. This two-enzyme strain produced 6.5 mg/L hydrocodone and 2.1 mg/L
   oxycodone, confirming that 14-hydroxylation is occurring as part of the pathway (Figure 20).
            Next, the ability of morA and morB mutants to increase flux to hydromorphone was
   examined. Specifically, morA Cys81 Ser was tested, which prevents irreversible product
 5 inhibition by morphinone at Cys8l on the enzyme surface. In addition, an alternative morB
   amino acid sequence (RCSB PDB: 1GWJA) with a Glu16OGly mutation relative to the
                                                                                                6
   original reported sequence (UniProtKB: Q51990) was tested. The morACe's and morBE1 0G
   variants were examined individually and in combination in the engineered pathway. The
   control strain, expressing T60DM, CODM,            morA, and morB, produced 1.3 mg/L
10 hydrocodone and 0.10 mg/L hydromorphone. Substituting morA with the morAe 1ss variant
   reduced titers of both hydrocodone and hydromorphone to 0.9 mg/L and 0.09 mg/L,
   respectively.    Substituting   morB   with  morBE160G   resulted    in   increased   levels   of
   hydromorphone in the culture medium. For example, strains expressing T60DM, CODM,
   morA, and morBE16OG produced 0.9 mg/L hydrocodone and 0.14 mg/L hydromorphone. The
15 reduced hydrocodone titer suggested that the morBEl16      G variant    has reduced activity on
   codeinone, redirecting flux to hydromorphone.
   f.       Combining strain engineering approaches to produce natural and semi-synthetic
            opioids
20          The genetic design elements described herein were used to construct three
   production strains for target opioid biosynthesis. The morphine production strain (CSY950)
   incorporated a genome-integrated copy of T60DM, two integrated copies of CODM, and a
   YAC encoding COR1.3-ER2, T60DM, and CODM. This strain directed pathway flux to
   morphine with ER-localized COR1.3 and enhanced overall pathway flux with the optimal
25 2:11:3 ratio of T60DM:COR1.3:CODM. The hydromorphone production strain (CSY951)
   incorporated a genome-integrated copy of T60DM, two integrated copies of CODM, and a
   YAC encoding T60DM, CODM, morA, and morBE160G. This hydromorphone production
   strain directed flux to hydromorphone with the morBEl16      G  variant and enhanced overall
   production with the optimal gene copy number ratio. The hydrocodone/oxycodone
30 production strain (CSY952) incorporated two integrated copies of T60DM and a YAC
   encoding T60DM and morB. These production strains were grown in parallel 0.25 L closed
   batch fermentations. Ten key opioid end products - codeine, neopine, morphine,
   neomorphine,       hydrocodone,      oxycodone, hydromorphone,           dihydrocodeine,     14
   hydroxycodeine, and dihydromorphine -           were   monitored    over the course of the
35 fermentation. Target opioids were detected in the culture medium after 24 h, increased in
   concentration with increasing cell density, and continued to accumulate in stationary phase.
   Strains CSY950, CSY951, and CSY952 accumulated 31, 68, and 132 mg/L target opioid
                                                 67

    WO 2014/143744                                                            PCT/US2014/027833
   molecules, respectively, in the culture medium during the course of the fermentation (Fig.
   24).
            Analysis of the total metabolite profile across strains at the final time point revealed
   important differences in pathway flux (Fig. 24). Strain CSY950 in which COR was localized
 5 to the ER produced low titers of neopine and neomorphine relative to codeine and morphine
   (2.6 and 0.76 mg/L relative to 7.7 and 4.7 mg/L), indicating that the spatial engineering
   approach remained effective at limiting pathway flux towards non-target byproducts in
   bench scale fermentations (Fig. 24a). However, the overall yield of morphine from this strain
   was lower. Examination of the full BIA profile revealed that the side product 14
10 hydroxycodeine was a large component of the total opioid molecules produced (15 mg/L). In
   this strain codeinone may form 14-hydroxycodeinone, which is then reduced by COR to 14
   hydroxycodeine. Furthermore, the higher titer of codeine than morphine suggests that
   factors influencing CODM activity may form a bottleneck in pathway flux to morphine.
            Analysis of the CSY951 fermentation culture medium provided more evidence of a
15 bottleneck in pathway flux from codeine to morphine. The products downstream of CODM
   morphine, hydromorphone, dihydromorphine - accumulated at low levels (0.54, 1.0, and 1.5
   mg/L, respectively) relative to other BIA products, suggesting that activity of CODM may be
   limited. This could occur due to restricted access of CODM to its substrate codeine as a
   result of passive diffusion out of the cell facilitated by the intermediate polarity of this
20 molecule, or it may be attributed to binding site competition from thebaine which is plentiful
   in the culture medium. CSY951           also accumulated low levels of hydrocodone and
   oxycodone (1.6 and 0.55 mg/L, respectively), consistent with morBEl 60 G limiting production
   of these side products and routing pathway flux to hydromorphone. In this strain morA
   activity increased accumulation of side products neopine and neomorphine (21 and 4.4
25 mg/L, respectively), possibly impacting yields of target end product hydromorphone. The
   data indicates that further optimization of the hydromorphone production strain may be
   achieved through a dual spatial-temporal regulation strategy. For example, implementing
   the spatial engineering approach to localize morA to the ER may support increased
   production of morphine and limit flux to the neomorphine branch as observed for ER
30 COR1.3. morA expression could be further temporally regulated to "switch on" once a
   suitable level of morphine has accumulated and then convert this intermediate to
   morphinone and ultimately to hydromorphone. A similar temporal regulation strategy applied
   to morB could limit the synthesis of side products such as hydrocodone and oxycodone.
            The CSY952 strain was engineered for the production of hydrocodone and
35 oxycodone and has a simple pathway architecture. The strain does not incorporate
   morA/COR or CODM and thus does not lose flux to the neomorphine branch nor encounter
   the bottleneck between codeine and morphine. CSY952 converted thebaine to hydrocodone
                                                   68

    WO 2014/143744                                                       PCT/US2014/027833
   and oxycodone with titers of 51 and 70 mg/L, respectively (Fig. 24a). Accumulation of
   hydrocodone was limited by its conversion to dihydrocodeine over the course of the
   fermentation, with a final titer of 11 mg/L (Fig. 24). The reduction of hydrocodone to
   dihydrocodeine may be attributed to a second reduction reaction by morB or may be the
 5 result of an endogenous yeast enzyme activity. The MS/MS spectra of dihydrocodeine
   matched published mass spectra. CSY952 demonstrates that high flux to target compounds
   can be achieved through a minimally branched pathway of heterologous enzymes with high
   activity in yeast.
10 3.       Discussion
            S. cerevisiae has been demonstrated as a biosynthetic platform for many valuable
   BIA target molecules, including as a production host for the transformation of thebaine to
   opioids including codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, oxycodone, and hydromorphone. The
   tools and methods support BIA biosynthesis in yeast by regulating the localization of
15 heterologous pathway enzymes and redirecting pathway flux to target end products. Gene
   copy number optimization and co-substrate supply enhancement were also applied to
   enhance yeast opiate biosynthesis. For example, three exemplary engineered strains
   produced 7.7 mg/L codeine and 4.7 mg/L morphine (CSY950), 1 mg/L hydromorphone
   (CSY951), and 51 mg/L hydrocodone, 11 mg/L dihydrocodeine, and 70 mg/L oxycodone
20 (CSY952) in bench-scale batch fermentations.
            In opium poppy, thebaine is converted to morphine via two biosynthetic routes. The
   initial bifurcation occurs when T60DM or CODM demethylates thebaine at a distinct
   position. Since both biosynthetic routes arrive at morphine in opium poppy this bifurcation is
   unlikely to impact yields in planta. However, the subject engineered yeast strains
25 demonstrate an additional branching due to the activities of COR and CODM on neopinone
   and neopine, respectively, resulting in production of neomorphine and decreased
   production of morphine.
             The plant enzymes may function differently when expressed in yeast than in the
   native plant host, due to the absence of native regulatory mechanisms and altered cellular
30 factors such as protein processing, localization, and microenvironment. In the subject
   engineered yeast strains, production of the intermediates oripavine or morphinone was not
   observed. In aqueous solution, neopinone rapidly rearranges to codeinone, but this
   molecule may be stabilized by conditions in the yeast cell. In vitro conditions thus favor
   codeine production, but in vivo conditions in yeast may slow neopinone rearrangement,
35 allowing COR to act on this intermediate to produce neopine.
            T60DM and CODM exhibit broad substrate specificity, catalyzing O-demethylation
   of non-morphinan alkaloid substrates such as scoulerine and allocryptopine. These
                                                 69

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
   enzymes also catalyze 0-demethylenation reactions that break methylenedioxy bridges in
   diverse BIAs, including allocryptopine, cryptopine, and protopine. Other examples of BIA
   enzyme promiscuity include the 0- and N-methyltransferases, which methylate many BIA
   substrates. In a heterologous microbial host, the absence of native temporal and spatial
 5 regulation mechanisms likely further broadens the range of substrates available to the BIA
   biosynthetic enzymes, leading to newly observed pathway branches and metabolites. In
   addition, combining enzymes from different species in a single host cell further increases
   the number of natural and non-native substrates available to any given enzyme and the
   production of a variety of BIA molecules. Reconstructing targeted microbial BIA biosynthetic
10 pathways can be achieved to manage flux through highly branching pathways to achieve
   optimal yields of individual target end products.
             To facilitate spatial engineering of biosynthetic pathways in yeast, an organelle
   routing toolkit was created that supports enzyme routing to selected organelles and
   endomembrane locations. These spatial engineering tools were applied to redirect flux to
15 the target product morphine, limiting         production of undesired side products. The
   spontaneous conversion of neopinone to codeinone was a key branch point in our pathway,
   where COR activity on neopinone directs flux to neomorphine and its activity on codeinone
   directs flux to morphine. Isolation of COR from T60DM may allow additional time for the
   spontaneous reaction to occur and redirect flux to the morphine branch. The results
20 demonstrate that actively routing COR to different organelles increases pathway specificity
   for morphine and overall morphine titer, likely through the combined effects of delocalization
   of pathway enzymes and reduction of COR activity to further balance pathway flux.
             The results show the construction of the final steps in opiate biosynthesis in yeast to
   convert thebaine to codeine and morphine and extension of this pathway to produce the
25 semi-synthetic drugs, e.g., hydrocodone, oxycodone, and hydromorphone. Combined with
   the total microbial biosynthesis of upstream BIA reticuline, the subject methods and host
   cells may be used or adapted for engineering a yeast strain capable of producing target
   opiates from simple sugar sources. Such strains may include functional expression of three
   known enzymes, including one cytochrome P450 to catalyze the conversion of (R)-reticuline
30 to salutaridine.
   4.        Methods
   a.        Plasmid and yeast strain construction
             Modern molecular biology techniques were used to construct the plasmids and
35 strains. The parent S. cerevisiae strain from which strains described in the examples were
   constructed was haploid W303a (MATa leu2-3,112 trpl-1 can1-100 ura3-1 ade2-1 his3
    11, 15). Yeast synthetic complete (SC) amino acid dropout media with 2% dextrose and
                                                   70

      WO 2014/143744                                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   complex Yeast Peptone Dextrose (YPD) medium containing 200 mg/L G418 sulfate were
   used for strain construction Chemically-competent E, coft strain TOP10 was used for
   cloning purposes and was grown in LB medium with the indicated antibiotic concentrations.
   Custom oligonucleotides were synthesized using standard methods. All heterologous gene
 5 sequences were downloaded from Gen~ank, codon optimized for expression in S.
   cerevisiae using the GeneArt GeneOpimizer program, and synthesized using standard
   methods, All yeast endogenous promoters, terminators, and organelle targeting sequences
   were amplified from W303a genomic DNA (Table S3). Polymerases used for PCR were Pfu
    Hotstart for products less than 2 kb and Expand High Fidelity PCR System for products
10 greater than 2 kb. Plasmids were prepared from E coh using QlAprep columns and
    Econospin columns .Sequencing was performed using standard methods.
   Table $3 depicts YAC Expression Cassettes, Unique promoters and terminators were
   paired with each gene to construct an expression cassette for incorporation into the YES1
   vector
                   Name                 Spec                          ies
                                                                        Gteak     D
   Ipc2
    pOS2661
                 E TODM ik .IVeam
                 I COR3 ( 0kbT)
                                        Paver
                                        Pa
                                        Pacavsr snfenrm
                                                                      i ADD3251
                                                                              A"3
                                                                      I AAF1I7 36
                                                                                         GPD
                                                                                               u152n)
                                                                                         TPnI0Uk)
                                                                                                           j ADI1
                                                                                                             STE2
                                                                                                                  (03k}
    p~s2c57        LOOM (~1150          P apaver swemm                  AOD'03l           E1
                                                                                          ,17   (k
                                                                                              IYCI                   ,3k
    f9x3'364       mo'rA (0 2kf         PsOudOmnna s     tdaM'i0        A AsI7353        PYKW 'f('lSkb)r0k
         p263       rA:1Ihik            Pseudoonas puaMiC               AA043569,1       PG1 Gdb)            P      4 k
                                                                                                                   '80
                    H ues were esdor flptimzed for expressiol in S. erevisiae
       lsofonrs of COR             cORT.3 in indcted rjcweow: cof0i
                                   Cepacing                                     l. AAF137361 CORI2. AAF137371: and
    COR 4 AAF1373.1
                              Va lnfe In.................wr......~
                                         ep~rrin andsnoC                               ~i ra.......               ........
15             To express heterologous genes from P somniferurm and P putida in W3030,
    individual expression cassettes were constructed which comprised an open reading frame
    flanked by a unique promoter and terminator (Table $3) and incorporated into the pYES1L
    vector, In the initial construction of expression cassettes, individual genes were combined
    with promoters and terminators by Splicing by Overlap Extension (SOEing) PCR and
20  recombined into Gateway vector pDONR221 (BP Conase 8) for sequence verification and
    storage, Expression cassettes were then PCR amplified using oligonucleotides designed by
    the GeneArt High-Order Genetic Assembly online tool, which adds homology regions for
    gap repair in yeast, 100 ng of each expression cassette PCR was combined with 100 ng
    linearized pYESiL and transformed into W303a by electroporation. The pYES1L vector
25  contains TRP1 for selection on tryptophan dropout media and an ARS4/CEN5 region such
    that each newly constructed vector was maintained as a single-copy, episomal plasmid in
    yeast. pYES1L constructs were verified by PCR screening and sequencing, To propagate
    the plasmid so that it could be transformed into other yeast background strains, the pYESI L
    vector was isolated from yeast and transformed into TOP] 0 E coli, where it was maintained
30  in single copy and selected on LB media with 50 mg/L spectinomycin dihydrochloride
    pentahydrate. Approximately 2 pg piasmid, enough to transform up to 10 yeast strains, was
    prepared from 100 mL overnight E. coli culture.
                                                                71

    WO 2014/143744                                                           PCT/US2014/027833
           To integrate additional gene copies into the yeast genome, expression cassettes
   comprising a gene flanked by a promoter and terminator were produced by PCR
   amplification of pUG vectors, which were modified to enable Gateway Cloning (Life
   Technologies). Vectors pUG6 and pUG73 containing KanMX and Kluyveromyces lactis
 5 LEU2 selection markers, respectively, were modified to include a GPD promoter and CYC1
   terminator flanking the Gateway cassette attR1-ccdB/CamR-attR2 to generate two new
   pDEST vectors called pCS2643 and pCS2644. Individual pENTR vectors each containing a
   gene open reading frame prefixed by a Kozak sequence were recombined with the pDEST
   vectors. From the resulting vectors, the gene expression cassette and adjoining selection
10 marker (KanMX or LEU2) flanked by loxP sites was PCR amplified with oligonucleotides
   that added 103 bp of homology to the target integration site in the yeast genome. The PCR
   product was transformed into W303a by standard lithium acetate transformation. Integration
   events were selected by growth on G418 or leucine-dropout media and confirmed by PCR
   screening of both integration borders and by sequencing. The loxP sites were used to
15 remove the selection marker by expression of Cre recombinase (Guldener et al. A new
   efficient gene disruption cassette for repeated use in budding yeast. Nucleic Acids Res 24,
   2519-2524 (1996)).
            Other plasmids were constructed from the Lindquist suite of destination vectors,
   especially pAG416GPD-ccdB (Alberti, S., Gitler, A.D. & Lindquist, S. A suite of Gateway
20 cloning vectors for high-throughput genetic analysis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Yeast
   24, 913-919 (2007). Vectors for microscopy were constructed with the organelle targeting
   sequence fused to GFP separated by a GlyeSerThr linker or a ProGly linker at the N
   terminal or C-terminal, respectively. The targeting sequence, linker and GFP were
   combined by SOEing PCR and cloned into pDONR221 using BP clonase 1l. The resulting
25 entry vector was recombined into pAG416GPD-ccdB or another destination vector using LR
   clonase   |I to create a shuttle vector for expression in yeast. Plasmids containing established
   markers for the mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum were pHS12-mCherry (Addgene
   plasmid 25444) and YIPIac204TKC-DsRed-Express2-HDEL                  (Addgene plasmid 21770),
   respectively.
30
   b.       Culture and fermentation conditions
           To assay for opioid production, yeast strains were cultured in 96-well plates with 0.4
   mL SC growth medium (tryptophan-dropout, 2% dextrose) per well and incubated in a
   shaker at 30'C, 480 rpm agitation, 1.24 cm orbital diameter, with 80% humidity. Strains
35 were initially inoculated into SC medium with 0.5 g/L glutamine substituted for ammonium
   sulfate as the nitrogen base and grown for 16 h. Cultures were then back-diluted 4 0x into
   SC medium with 0.5 g/L glutamine, 2.5 g/L monosodium glutamate, 50 mM 2-oxoglutarate,
                                                    72

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   and 1 mM thebaine. Strains were grown 96 h or until morphine production by the control
   strain reached approximately 2.5 mg/L. To determine cell density the final OD600 (after 10x
   dilution) was measured).
            For enhanced closed-batch culture conditions, strains were cultured in a Biostat Q
 5 plus bioreactor with 0.5 L vessel size. Initial medium volume was 250 mL and contained 1Ox
   SC tryptophan dropout medium components supplemented with 5 g/L glutamine, 25 g/L
   MSG, 100 mM 2-oxoglutarate, and 1 mM thebaine. Glucose concentration was 10% and the
   medium was further supplemented with 2 g/L adenine hemisulfate. Each vessel was
   inoculated with a 10 mL overnight culture grown in selective medium which was pelleted
10 and the cells resuspended in the fermentation medium before addition to the vessel.
   Process parameters were kept constant during the fermentation at 30'C, 200 rpm stirring,
   and 2 L/min compressed air flow rate. At appropriate time points cell density was recorded
   from diluted samples measured in a cuvette on a Nanodrop 2000c spectrophotometer and
   additional samples were taken for metabolite analysis.
15
   c.       Analysis of opiate production
            Opiates secreted into the culture medium by the engineered yeast strains were
   identified and quantified by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Cultures
   were pelleted by centrifugation and 5 pL of the supernatant separated on a Zorbax SB-Aq
20 column (3.0 x 50 mm, 1.8 pM particle size). The column was equilibrated with water, 0.1%
   acetic acid, and 0.1% methanol (Solvent A) and samples were eluted with a mobile phase
   of methanol and 0.1% acetic acid (Solvent B) in the following sequence: 0-1 min at 100% A,
   1-4 min 0-25% B, 4-7 min at 25% B, followed by steps to clean the column with 100% B
   then re-equilibrate in A. The flow rate was held constant at 0.6 mL/min. Eluted opiates were
25 identified on an Agilent 6320 Ion Trap mass spectrometer operated in scan mode for total
   ion monitoring. Extracted ion chromatograms for each metabolite of interest were compared
   with commercially available standards spiked into spent yeast culture medium. Fragment
   ions for target molecules were identified in MS/MS for both samples and standards and
   compared to published spectra to confirm the identity of each opiate. For quantification,
30 peak area of the extracted ion chromatograms was integrated and compared to standard
   curves for each molecule. The standards were thebaine, codeine sulfate, morphine sulfate
   pentahydrate,     hydrocodone      bitartrate,   oxycodone   hydrochloride,   hydromorphone
   hydrochloride.
            For analysis of bioreactor culture medium, samples were diluted between 2- and 10
35 fold and separated on a Zorbax SB-Aq column (3.0 x 250 mm, 5 pM particle size). The
   column was equilibrated with water, 0.1% acetic acid, and 0.1% methanol (Solvent A) and
   samples were eluted with a mobile phase of methanol and 0.1% acetic acid (Solvent B) in
                                                   73

     WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   the following sequence: 0-10 min at 100% A, 10-30 min 0-90% B followed by steps to clean
   the column with 100% B then re-equilibrate in A. Flow rate was held constant at 0.8 mL/min.
   d.       Confocal microscopy
 5          Yeast cells harboring the appropriate plasmids were grown overnight in SC dropout
   media then 1.5 mL was pelleted and resuspended at high cell density (in <100 pL medium).
   Slides were prepared by placing a 2% low-melting point agarose pad combined with yeast
   media on a microscope slide, spotting 1 pl of yeast cells on the agarose pad, covering with
   a No. 1. coverslip, and sealing. Cells were imaged on a Leica TCS SP5 confocal
10 microscope with a 63.Ox glycerine immersion objective, 1.30x numerical aperture, and up to
   8x digital zoom. Hybrid detector (HyD) smart gain was adjusted from 30-200% depending
   on sample fluorescence intensity. As an example of the fluorescence settings, for single
   color imaging of GFP the sample was excited with laser line 488 nm and emitted
   fluorescence was recorded by a HyD channel in the range 500-550 nm (dichroic mirror =
15 DD 488/594). Images were recorded with an airyl pinhole size (108.4 pm), a minimum of 2x
   line averaging, a pixel size of 30-100 nm, and optical section thickness of 0.856 pm.
                                    EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
   Embodiment 1.            A host cell that produces reticuline, wherein the host cell comprises
20 multiple copies of one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more
   methyltransferase selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT, wherein the one or more
   methyltransferase is derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell
   Embodiment 2.            The host cell according to embodiment 1, wherein the source
   organism is Papaver somniferum, Thalictrum flavum or Coptis japonica.
25 Embodiment 3.            The host cell according to Embodiment 1, wherein the multiple copies
   of the one or more methyltransferase are derived from two or more different source
   organisms as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 4.            The host cell according to Embodiment 1, wherein the host cell
   comprises multiple copies of the heterologous coding sequence for CNMT.
30 Embodiment 5.            The host cell according to Embodiment 4, wherein the host cell
   comprises two copies of the heterologous coding sequence for CNMT.
   Embodiment 6.            The host cell according to Embodiment 1, wherein the host cell is
   capable of producing an increased amount of reticuline from norcoclaurine relative to a
   control host cell that lacks multiple copies of the one or more heterologous coding
35 sequences for the one or more methyltransferase.
   Embodiment 7.            The host cell according to Embodiment 6, wherein the increased
   amount of reticuline is 10% or greater relative to the control host cell.
   Embodiment 8.            The host cell according to Embodiment 6, wherein the host cell is
                                                   74

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   capable of producing reticuline from norcoclaurine.
   Embodiment 9.          The host cell according to Embodiment 1, wherein the host cell
   comprises two or more heterologous coding sequences for two or more methyltransferase
   selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT.
 5 Embodiment 10.         The host cell according to Embodiment 9, wherein the two or more
   methyltransf erases are derived from two or more different source organisms as compared
   to the host cell.
   Embodiment 11.         The host cell according to Embodiment 9, wherein the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for all of the methyltransferases 60MT, CNMT
10 and 4'OMT.
   Embodiment 12.         The host cell according to Embodiment 1, wherein the host cell is
   capable of producing reticuline from norlaudanosoline via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure
   2.
   Embodiment 13.         The host cell according to Embodiment 1, wherein the host cell is
15 capable of producing reticuline from norcoclaurine via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 3.
   Embodiment 14.         The host cell according to Embodiment 1, wherein the host cell is a
   yeast strain.
   Embodiment 15.         The host cell according to Embodiment 14, wherein the yeast strain is
   S. cerevisiae.
20 Embodiment 16.         A host cell that produces sanguinarine or a sanguinarine precursor,
   wherein the host cell comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or
   more enzymes selected from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX, wherein
   the one or more enzymes is derived from a different source organism as compared to the
   host cell.
25 Embodiment 17.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the sanguinarine
   precursor is a protoberberine or a benzophenanthridine alkaloid.
   Embodiment 18.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the sanguinarine
   precursor is selected from cheilanthifoline, stylopine, cis-N-methylstylopine, scoulerine,
   protopine and dihydrosanguinarine.
30 Embodiment 19.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the source
   organism is P. somniferum, Eschscholzia californica, Arabidopsis thaliana, Papaver
   bracteatum or Argemone mexicana.
   Embodiment 20.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the one or more
   enzymes is two or more enzymes that are derived from two or more different source
35 organisms as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 21.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell
   comprises multiple copies of the one or more heterologous coding sequences.
                                                  75

    WO 2014/143744                                                      PCT/US2014/027833
   Embodiment 22.         The host cell according to Embodiment 21, wherein the multiple
   copies of the one or more heterologous coding sequences are derived from two or more
   different source organisms as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 23.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell
 5 comprises two or more heterologous coding sequences for two or more enzymes selected
   from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX.
   Embodiment 24.          The host cell according to Embodiment 23, wherein the host cell
   comprises three or more heterologous coding sequences for three or more enzymes
   selected from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX.
10 Embodiment 25.         The host cell according to Embodiment 23, wherein the host cell
   comprises four or more heterologous coding sequences for four or more enzymes selected
   from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX.
   Embodiment 26.         The host cell according to Embodiment 25, wherein the host cell
   comprises five or more heterologous coding sequences for five or more enzymes selected
15 from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX.
   Embodiment 27.          The host cell according to Embodiment 26, wherein the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for each of the enzymes BBE, CFS, CPR, STS,
   TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX.
   Embodiment 28.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein host cell further
20 comprises one or more gene deletions in comparison to a native host cell, wherein the one
   or more deleted genes is selected from IRE1, HAC1, OP11, INO1, IN02, IN03, PDR1,
   STE5, PDR3, PDR5, SNQ2, YOR1, TPO1, TPO2, TPO3, TPO4, PDR10, PDR1 1, PDR15,
   PDR1 6, PDR1 7, QDR1, QDR2, QDR3, FLR1, AQR1, AQR2, and CIN5.
   Embodiment 29.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell is a
25 yeast strain.
   Embodiment 30.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell is
   capable of producing the sanguinarine or sanguinarine precursor from norlaudanosoline via
   a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 4.
   Embodiment 31.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell is
30 capable of producing the sanguinarine or sanguinarine precursor from norlaudanosoline via
   a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 11.
   Embodiment 32.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell
   comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a BBE enzyme.
   Embodiment 33.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the heterologous
35 coding sequence for the BBE enzyme is integrated into a host cell chromosome.
   Embodiment 34.         The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the sanguinarine
   precursor is cheilanthifoline.
                                                  76

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   Embodiment 35.          The host cell according to Embodiment 34, wherein the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for a CFS and a CPR enzyme.
   Embodiment 36.          The host cell according to Embodiment 35, wherein the CPR enzyme
   is ATR1.
 5 Embodiment 37.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the sanguinarine
   precursor is scoulerine.
   Embodiment 38.          The host cell according to Embodiment 37, wherein the host cell
   comprises a heterologous coding sequence for a STS enzyme.
   Embodiment 39.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the sanguinarine
10 precursor is protopine.
   Embodiment 40.          The host cell according to Embodiment 39, wherein the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for a TNMT and a MSH enzyme.
   Embodiment 41.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell
   comprises a heterologous or endogenous coding sequence for a cytochrome b5 enzyme.
15 Embodiment 42.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell
   comprises one or more heterologous or endogenous coding sequences for one or more
   proteins involved in transport of compounds across the cell membrane.
   Embodiment 43.          The host cell according to Embodiment 42, wherein the protein is
   selected from PDR1, PDR5, SNQ2, YOR1, PDR3, CIN5, and PDR3.
20 Embodiment 44.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell is a
   host cell according to one of Embodiments 1 to 15.
   Embodiment 45.          The host cell according to Embodiment 16, wherein the host cell
   further comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more
   methyltransf erase selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT, wherein the one or more
25 methyltransf erase is derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 46.          A host cell that produces a protoberberine alkaloid, wherein the host
   cell comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes
   selected from BBE, S90MT, CAS and STOX, wherein the one or more enzymes is derived
   from a different source organism as compared to the host cell.
30 Embodiment 47.          The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the
   protoberberine alkaloid is described by one of the following structures:
                                                  77

    WO 2014/143744                                                       PCT/US2014/027833
               R4    R5                       R4    R5
        R3                 R6          R3                R6
        R2   |         +NR7R8          R2              N     R
                 113    R,       R9             113            R9
                   R12           R10              R12          R10
                           R11                           R1,
           wherein R1 -R14 are each independently selected from H, an alkyl, a hydroxyl or an
   alkoxy.
   Embodiment 48.          The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the source
 5 organism is Papaver somniferum, Eschscholzia californica, Coptisjaponica, Thalictrum
   flavum, Berberis stolonifer, Thalictrum flavum subsp. glaucum, Coptis chinensis, Thalictrum
   spp, Coptis spp, Papaver spp, Berberis wilsonae, Argemone mexicana, or Berberis spp.
   Embodiment 49.          The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the host cell
   comprises multiple copies of the one or more heterologous coding sequences.
10 Embodiment 50.          The host cell according to Embodiment 49, wherein the multiple
   copies of the one or more heterologous coding sequences are derived from two or more
   different source organisms as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 51.          The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the host cell
   comprises two or more heterologous coding sequences for two or more enzymes selected
15 from BBE, S90MT, CAS and STOX.
   Embodiment 52.          The host cell according to Embodiment 51, wherein the host cell
   comprises three or more heterologous coding sequences for three or more enzymes
   selected from BBE, S90MT, CAS and STOX.
   Embodiment 53.          The host cell according to Embodiment 52, wherein the host cell
20 comprises heterologous coding sequences for each of the enzymes BBE, S90MT, CAS
   and STOX.
   Embodiment 54.          The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for CAS and a CPR enzyme.
   Embodiment 55.          The host cell according to Embodiment 54, wherein the CPR enzyme
25 is ATR1.
   Embodiment 56.          The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein host cell
   comprises the heterologous coding sequence for STOX.
   Embodiment 57.          The host cell according to Embodiment 56, wherein the host cell is
   capable of producing (S)-canadine from norlaudanosoline.
30 Embodiment 58.          The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein host cell further
                                                  78

    WO 2014/143744                                                        PCT/US2014/027833
   comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more heterologous
   transporters selected from CjABCB1, CjABCB2, and CjABCB2.
   Embodiment 59.         The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the host cell is a
   yeast strain.
 5 Embodiment 60.         The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the host cell is
   capable of producing berberine from reticuline via a biosynthetic pathway of Figure 5.
   Embodiment 61.         The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the host cell is a
   host cell according to one of Embodiments 1 to 15.
   Embodiment 62.         The host cell according to Embodiment 46, wherein the host cell
10 further comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more
   methyltransferase selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT, wherein the one or more
   methyltransferase is derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 63.         A host cell that produces thebaine, wherein the host cell comprises
   one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected from
15 SalSyn, CYP2D6, CYP2D2, SaIR and SaIAT, wherein the one or more enzymes is derived
   from a different source organism as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 64.         The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein the source
   organism is Papaver somniferum, Papaver bracteatum, Papaver orientale, Papaver spp,
   Homo sapiens, or Rattus spp.
20 Embodiment 65.         The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein the host cell
   comprises multiple copies of the one or more heterologous coding sequences.
   Embodiment 66.         The host cell according to Embodiment 65, wherein the multiple
   copies of the one or more heterologous coding sequences are derived from two or more
   different source organisms as compared to the host cell.
25 Embodiment 67.         The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for each of the enzymes SaIR and SaIAT and
   heterologous coding sequences for one or more of the enzymes selected from SalSyn,
   CYP2D2 and CYP2D6.
   Embodiment 68.         The host cell according to Embodiment 67, wherein host cell
30 comprises the heterologous coding sequence for P. bracteatum SaIR having F104A or
   1275A mutations.
   Embodiment 69.         The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein the host cell
   further comprises enzymes capable of producing one or more opiate compounds selected
   from oripavine, morphine, codeine, hydromorphone, hydrocodone, oxycodone and
35 oxymorphone from thebaine.
   Embodiment 70.         The host cell according to Embodiment 69, wherein the host cell
   further comprises heterologous coding sequences for T60DM and morB-E1 60G, and
                                                 79

    WO 2014/143744                                                       PCT/US2014/027833
   wherein the one or more opiate compounds is hydrocodone.
   Embodiment 71.          The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein host cell is an
   engineered yeast strain modified to produce increased amounts of NADPH by comparison
   to a native yeast strain.
 5 Embodiment 72.          The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein the host cell is a
   yeast strain.
   Embodiment 73.          The host cell according to Embodiment 72, wherein the host cell
   comprises SaIR and SaIAT enzymes localized to organelles in the yeast cell.
   Embodiment 74.          The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein the host cell is a
10 host cell according to one of Embodiments 1 to 15.
   Embodiment 75.          The host cell according to Embodiment 63, wherein the host cell
   further comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more
   methyltransferase selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT, wherein the one or more
   methyltransf erase is derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell.
15 Embodiment 76.          A host cell that produces an opiate compound, wherein the host cell
   comprises: one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected
   from T60DM, COR, and CODM, wherein the one or more enzymes are derived from a
   different source organism as compared to the host cell; and one or more heterologous
   coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected from Pseudomonas putida morA and
20 Pseudomonas putida morB.
   Embodiment 77.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
   comprises four or more heterologous coding sequences.
   Embodiment 78.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the source
   organism is selected from Papaver somniferium, Papaver spp. and Pseudomonas putida.
25 Embodiment 79.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
   comprises multiple copies of one or more of the heterologous coding sequences.
   Embodiment 80.          The host cell according to Embodiment 79, wherein the multiple
   copies of the heterologous coding sequences are derived from two or more different source
   organisms as compared to the host cell.
30 Embodiment 81.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for T60DM, COR, CODM and morB.
   Embodiment 82.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
   comprises heterologous coding sequences for the enzymes T60DM, COR and CODM.
   Embodiment 83.          The host cell according to Embodiment 82, wherein the heterologous
35 coding sequences for the enzymes T60DM, COR and CODM, are present in a ratio of
   2:1:3.
   Embodiment 84.          The host cell according to Embodiment 82, wherein the heterologous
                                                  80

    WO 2014/143744                                                      PCT/US2014/027833
   coding sequences for the enzymes T60DM, COR and CODM, are present in a ratio of 1:1:3
   or 2:1:2.
   Embodiment 85.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the opiate
   compound is selected from codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone,
 5 dihydrocodeine, 14-hydroxycodeine and dihydromorphine.
   Embodiment 86.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell is
   capable of producing the opiate compound from thebaine via a biosynthetic pathway of
   Figure 15.
   Embodiment 87.          The host cell according to Embodiment 86, wherein the host cell
10 produces little or no oripavine or morphinone from thebaine.
   Embodiment 88.          The host cell according to Embodiment 86, wherein the host cell
   produces one or more of neopine and neomorphine.
   Embodiment 89.          The host cell according to Embodiment 88, wherein the host cell
   produces a yield of the opiate compound that is 30% or more of the total opiates.
15 Embodiment 90.          The host cell according to Embodiment 89, wherein the host cell
   produces a yield of the opiate compound that is 50% or more of the total opiates.
   Embodiment 91.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell is a
   yeast strain.
   Embodiment 92.          The host cell according to Embodiment 91, wherein the host cell is an
20 engineered yeast strain capable of producing increased amounts of 2-oxoglutarate by
   comparison to a control yeast strain.
   Embodiment 93.          The host cell according to Embodiment 92, wherein the host cell
   comprises one or more endogenous or heterologous coding sequences for one or more
   proteins selected from GLN1, GLT1, GDH1, GDH2, GDH3, ODC1, ODC2, KGD1, KGD2
25 and LPD1.
   Embodiment 94.          The host cell according to Embodiment 93, wherein the host cell
   comprises a deletion in one or more endogenous coding sequences for one or more
   proteins selected from GLN1, GLT1, GDH1, GDH2, GDH3, ODC1, ODC2, KGD1, KGD2
   and LPD1.
30 Embodiment 95.          The host cell according to Embodiment 91, wherein the host cell
   further comprises increased amounts of 2-oxoglutarate by comparison to a control yeast
   strain, wherein the increased amounts of 2-oxoglutarate are introduced via direct addition to
   the culture medium of the host cell.
   Embodiment 96.          The host cell according to Embodiment 91, wherein the host cell
35 further comprises increased amounts of glutamine, 2-oxoglutarate and glutamate by
   comparison to a control yeast strain.
   Embodiment 97.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein one or more of
                                                  81

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   the enzymes comprises a localization tag.
   Embodiment 98.         The host cell according to Embodiment 91, wherein one or more of
   the enzymes is spatially localized to a compartment in the yeast cell, wherein the
   compartment is selected from mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), golgi, vacuole,
 5 nucleus, plasma membrane, and periplasm.
   Embodiment 99.         The host cell according to Embodiment 98, wherein the one or more
   enzymes is spatially localized to the outside of the compartment in the yeast cell.
   Embodiment 100.        The host cell according to Embodiment 98, wherein the one or more
   enzymes is spatially localized to the inside of the compartment in the yeast cell.
10 Embodiment 101.        The host cell according to Embodiment 91, wherein the one or more
   enzymes is COR
   Embodiment 102.        The host cell according to Embodiment 91, wherein the one or more
   enzymes is T60DM.
   Embodiment 03.         The host cell according to Embodiment 91, wherein the host cell
15 comprises COR and T60DM enzymes that are spatially separated from each other in the
   cell.
   Embodiment 104.        The host cell according to Embodiment 101, wherein the COR
   enzyme is localized to endoplasmic reticulum in the yeast cell.
   Embodiment 105.        The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
20 comprises heterologous coding sequences for morB and T60DM, and wherein the opiate
   compounds are hydrocodone and oxycodone.
   Embodiment 106.        The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
   comprises the enzyme morB comprising a E160G mutation.
   Embodiment 107.        The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
25 comprises heterologous coding sequences for morA, morB, CODM and T60DM, and
   wherein the opiate compound is selected from hydrocodone, oxycodone and
   hydromorphone.
   Embodiment 108.        The host cell according to Embodiment 107, wherein the host cell
   comprises the enzyme morB comprising a E160G mutation.
30 Embodiment 109.        The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
   comprises two or more genetic cassettes, wherein each cassette comprises a promoter, a
   gene and a terminator, and wherein the genetic cassettes are arranged in pairs having a
   back-to-back promoter design.
   Embodiment 110.        The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein host cell further
35 comprises one or more gene deletions in comparison to a native host cell, wherein the one
   or more deleted genes is selected from PDR1, STB5, PDR3, PDR5, SNQ2, YOR1, TPO1,
   TPO2, TPO3, TPO4, PDR1 0, PDR1 1, PDR1 5, PDR1 6, PDR1 7, QDR1, QDR2, QDR3,
                                                  82

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
   FLR1, AQR1, AQR2, and CIN5.
   Embodiment 111.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell is a
   host cell according to one of Embodiments 1 to 15 and 62 to 75.
   Embodiment 112.          The host cell according to Embodiment 76, wherein the host cell
 5 further comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more
   methyltransferase selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT, wherein the one or more
   methyltransferase is derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell.
   Embodiment 113.          A method of preparing a benzylisoquinoline alkaloid (BIA),
   comprising:
10         culturing a host cell under conditions suitable for protein production, wherein the
   host cell is selected from a reticuline-producing host cell, a sanguinarine or sanguinarine
   precursor-producing host cell, a protoberberine-producing host cell, a thebaine-producing
   host cell and an opiate-producing host cell;
            adding a starting compound to the cell culture; and
15          recovering the BIA from the cell culture.
   Embodiment 114.          The method according to Embodiment 113, wherein:the host cell is
   the cell according to Embodiment 1; the starting compound is the selected from
   norlaudanosoline and norcoclaurine; and the BIA is reticuline.
   Embodiment 115.          The method according to Embodiment 113, wherein: the host cell is
20 the cell according to Embodiment 16; the starting compound is reticuline, norlaudanosoline
   or norcoclaurine; and the BIA is sanguinarine or a sanguinarine precursor.
   Embodiment 116.          The method according to Embodiment 115, wherein the sanguinarine
   precursor is selected from cheilanthifoline, stylopine, cis-N-methylstylopine, scoulerine,
   protopine and dihydrosanguinarine.
25 Embodiment 117.          The method according to Embodiment 115, wherein the culturing of
   the host cell is performed at a reduced temperature and in a high aeration vessel.
   Embodiment 118.          The method according to Embodiment 113, wherein: the host cell is
   the cell according to Embodiment 46; the starting compound is reticuline, norlaudanosoline
   or norcoclaurine; and the BIA is a protoberberine alkaloid.
30 Embodiment 119.          The method according to Embodiment 118, wherein the BIA is (S)
   canadine and the starting compound is norlaudanosoline.
   Embodiment 120.          The method according to Embodiment 118, wherein the BIA is
   berberine and the starting compound is reticuline.
   Embodiment 121.          The method according to Embodiment 118, wherein the
35 protoberberine alkaloid is described by one of the following structures:
                                                   83

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
               R4     R5                    R4     R5
       R3                   R6        R3               R6
       R2    |          +NR7R8        R2             N     R8
                                                              R9
                 113      1      R9
                   R 12          Rjo            R 12          Rjo
                            R11                        R11
   wherein R1 -R14 are each independently selected from H, an alkyl, a hydroxyl or an alkoxy.
   Embodiment 122.          The method according to Embodiment 113, wherein: the host cell is
   the cell according to Embodiment 63; the starting compound is reticuline, norlaudanosoline
 5 or norcoclaurine; and the BIA is a thebaine.
   Embodiment 123.          The method according to Embodiment 122, further comprising
   producing one or more opiate compounds selected from oripavine, morphine, codeine,
   hydromorphone, hydrocodone, oxycodone and oxymorphone from thebaine.
   Embodiment 124.          The method according to Embodiment 113, wherein: the host cell is
10 the cell according to Embodiment 76;the starting compound is reticuline, norlaudanosoline,
   norcoclaurine or thebaine; and the BIA is an opiate compound.
   Embodiment 125.          The method according to Embodiment 124, wherein the opiate
   compound is selected from codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone,
   dihydrocodeine, 14-hydroxycodeine and dihydromorphine.
15 Embodiment 126.          The method according to Embodiment 124, wherein the host cell
   produces little or no oripavine or morphinone.
   Embodiment 127.           The method according to Embodiment 124, wherein the host cell is
   cultured in a medium comprising one or more of glutamine, 2-oxoglutarate and glutamate.
   Embodiment 128.          The method according to Embodiment 124, wherein the host cell is
20 cultured in a medium comprising about 2% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or less to enhance
   metabolite exchange with the culture medium.
   Embodiment 129.          The method according to Embodiment 124, wherein the amount of
   BIA recovered, is enhanced relative to a host cell cultured in a control medium that excludes
   the one or more of glutamine, 2-oxoglutarate and glutamate.
25 Embodiment 130.          The method according to Embodiment 113, wherein the host cell is
   the cell according to Embodiment 75; the starting compound is selected from codeine and
   morphine; and the BIA is an opioid selected from hydromorphone, hydrocodone,
   oxycodone, dihydrocodeine, 14-hydroxycodeine and dihydromorphine.
30
                                                 84

    WO 2014/143744                                                              PCT/US2014/027833
            Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
   illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it is readily apparent to
   those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes
   and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the
 5 appended claims.
             Accordingly, the preceding merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will be
   appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which,
   although not explicitly described or shown herein, embody the principles of the invention
   and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore, all examples and conditional
10 language recited herein are principally intended to aid the reader in understanding the
   principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventors to furthering the
   art, and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples
   and conditions. Moreover, all statements herein reciting principles, aspects, and
   embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof, are intended to
15 encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally, it is intended
   that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents and equivalents developed
   in the future, i.e., any elements developed that perform the same function, regardless of
   structure. The scope of the present invention, therefore, is not intended to be limited to the
   exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Rather, the scope and spirit of
20 present invention is embodied by the appended claims.
                                                      85

    WO 2014/143744                                                             PCT/US2014/027833
   What is claimed is:
   1.       A host cell that produces a BIA compound or a precursor thereof, wherein:
            the host cell comprises multiple copies of one or more heterologous coding
 5 sequences for one or more enzymes derived from a different source organism as compared
   to the host cell.
   2.       The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the host cell comprises two or more enzymes
   derived from two or more different source organisms as compared to the host cell.
10
   3.       The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the host cell is capable of producing the BIA
   compound or a precursor thereof from a starting material via a biosynthethic pathway of one
   of Figures 2, 3, 4, 11, and 15, wherein the starting material is selected from
   norlaudanosoline, norcoclaurine, reticuline and thebaine.
15
   4.       The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the host cell is a yeast strain.
   5.       The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the host cell comprises one or more heterologous
   or endogenous coding sequences for one or more proteins involved in transport of
20 compounds across the cell membrane.
   6.       The host cell of Claim 1, wherein one or more of the enzymes comprises a
   localization tag and is spatially localized to a compartment in the yeast cell, wherein the
   compartment is selected from mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum (ER), golgi, vacuole,
25 nucleus, plasma membrane, and periplasm.
   7.       The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the BIA compound or a precursor thereof is
   reticuline and the host cell comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one
   or more methyltransferase selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT.
30
   8.       The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the BIA compound or a precursor thereof is
   sanguinarine or a sanguinarine precursor and the host cell comprises one or more
   heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected from BBE, CFS, CPR,
   STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX, wherein the sanguinarine precursor is selected from
35 cheilanthifoline, stylopine, cis-N-methylstylopine, scoulerine, protopine and
   dihydrosanguinarine.
                                                    86

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   9.      The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the BIA compound or a precursor thereof is a
   protoberberine alkaloid and the host cell comprises one or more heterologous coding
   sequences for one or more enzymes selected from BBE, S90MT, CAS and STOX, wherein
   the protoberberine alkaloid is described by one of the following structures:
              R4   R5                      R4   R5
        R3                R6        R3                 R6
        R2  |        + N 7R   8     R2             N      R8
                   113          RR1                          R9
                 R12            R10           R12            R1o
                          R11                          R1
 5
           wherein R1 -R14 are each independently selected from H, an alkyl, a hydroxyl or an
   alkoxy.
   10.     The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the BIA compound or a precursor thereof is
10 thebaine and the host cell comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one
   or more enzymes selected from SalSyn, CYP2D6, CYP2D2, SaIR and SaIAT.
   11.     The host cell of Claim 1, wherein the BIA compound or a precursor thereof is an
   opiate compound and the host cell comprises:
15         one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected
   from T60DM, COR, and CODM, wherein the one or more enzymes are derived from a
   different source organism as compared to the host cell; and
           one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected
   from Pseudomonas putida morA and Pseudomonas putida morB;
20         wherein the opiate compound is selected from codeine, morphine, hydrocodone,
   hydromorphone, oxycodone, dihydrocodeine, 14-hydroxycodeine, and dihydromorphine.
   12.     The host cell of Claim 11, wherein the heterologous coding sequences for the
   enzymes T60DM, COR and CODM, are present in a ratio of 2:1:3, 1:1:3 or 2:1:2.
25
   13.     The host cell of Claim 11, wherein:
           the host cell further comprises increased amounts of one or more of glutamine, 2
   oxoglutarate and glutamate by comparison to a control yeast strain;
           the host cell produces no oripavine or morphinone from thebaine; and
30         the host cell is capable of producing a yield of the opiate compound that is 30% or
   more of the total opiates.
                                                  87

    WO 2014/143744                                                         PCT/US2014/027833
   14.     A host cell that produces reticuline, wherein the host cell comprises multiple copies
   of one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more methyltransferase derived
   from a different source organism as compared to the host cell, wherein the one or more
 5 methyltransferases is selected from 60MT, CNMT and 4'OMT.
   15.     A host cell that produces sanguinarine or a sanguinarine precursor, wherein the host
   cell comprises one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes
   derived from a different source organism as compared to the host cell, wherein the one or
10 more enzymes is selected from BBE, CFS, CPR, STS, TNMT, MSH, P6H and DBOX and
   the sanguinarine precursor is selected from cheilanthifoline, stylopine, cis-N
   methylstylopine, scoulerine, protopine and dihydrosanguinarine.
   16.     A host cell that produces a protoberberine alkaloid, wherein the host cell
15 comprisesone or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes derived
   from a different source organism as compared to the host cell, wherein the one or more
   enzymes is selected from BBE, S90MT, CAS and STOX) and the protoberberine alkaloid is
   described by one of the following structures:
              R4    R5                     R4     R5
       R3                 R6       R3                  R6
       R2             +N   R       R2               +N    R8
                       R       RW                            R9
                113
                  R12          R10             R 12          R10
                          R11                          R 11
20         wherein R1 -R14 are each independently selected from H, an alkyl, a hydroxyl or an
   alkoxy.
   17.     A host cell that produces thebaine, wherein the host cell comprises one or more
   heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes derived from a different source
25 organism as compared to the host cell, wherein the one or more enzymes is selected from
   SalSyn, CYP2D6, CYP2D2, SaIR and SaIAT.
   18.     A host cell that produces an opiate compound, wherein the host cell comprises:
           one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected
30 from T60DM, COR, and CODM, wherein the one or more enzymes are derived from a
   different source organism as compared to the host cell; and
                                                    88

    WO 2014/143744                                                          PCT/US2014/027833
          one or more heterologous coding sequences for one or more enzymes selected
   from Pseudomonas putida morA and Pseudomonas putida morB;; and the opiate
   compound is selected from codeine, morphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone,
   dihydrocodeine, 14-hydroxycodeine, and dihydromorphine.
 5
   19.    A method of preparing a benzylisoquinoline alkaloid (BIA), comprising:
          culturing a host cell of Claim 1 under conditions suitable for protein production;
          adding a starting compound to the cell culture; and
          recovering the BIA from the cell culture;
10        wherein the host cell is cultured in a rnedium comprising one or more of glutamine,
   2-oxoglutarate, glutamate and 2% or less dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or less.
                                                  89

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+271F><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E><U+2720><U+2720>                                                   <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+2721><U+274B><U+25CF><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+274D><U+261B><U+261B>
<removed-date>
                                                  <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711>
                                                         <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     ¦<U+274F><U+2751> <U+25B2> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>
                          <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>       <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2722><U+2727><U+2605>
                                                                  <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B>   P<U+25D7>|   <U+2759>P<U+275A>     <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772>      <U+2759><U+2773><U+275A>         <U+275C><U+275D><U+275E>
                                                                                                     <U+2774><U+2775><U+275B>
                                            <U+272C><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736>
                                                                                    <U+2768><U+2769><U+276C> <U+276D> <U+276A><U+276B>
                                     <U+2737><U+2738><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2738><U+2727><U+2739>
                                 <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273A><U+273D><U+273E><U+273D><U+273F><U+273D><U+2740> <U+273A><U+2741><U+2740><U+273D> <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2740> <U+2745><U+2746><U+2747>

              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>          <U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2711>     <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+271D><U+272C><U+272D><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+272E><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                  <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716>
                                <U+2720><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+261B><U+261E>
                                <U+270C><U+270D>
                              <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                                  <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>

              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>    <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720>    <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2711><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716>
<removed-apn>

               <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271D><U+270F><U+2711><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2712><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                        <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2717>
<removed-apn>         <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725>
              <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+272F><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736> <U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>   <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>¦<U+274F><U+2744><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>

              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>            <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>                 <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+271D><U+2740><U+2741><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2742><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723>   <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733> <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>        <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>¦
                                                           <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A>
                                                                       <U+276B><U+2774>
                                                                          <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D>
                                                                           <U+2761><U+2762>
                                                                         <U+275E>
                                                                     <U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2767><U+2766>
                                                                <U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>qrs<U+2663>

                  <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                        <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>                 <U+2666><U+2663>q<U+271D>rs<U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F>t<U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                     <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B>
              <U+2720>                                               <U+271C>
                  <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                                           <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
                  <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>                      <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                       <U+2764><U+2710> <U+2765> <U+2766> <U+2709><U+2708><U+2707><U+2460><U+2461><U+2462><U+2463><U+2464> <U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+2778>
                                                                  <U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665>
                            <U+270F><U+2711>                <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740>                            <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B><U+277C> <U+277D><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780> <U+2781><U+2782><U+2783><U+2784> <U+2785> <U+2786><U+2787><U+2788><U+2789>
                                  <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744>                                         <U+278A><U+278B><U+278C><U+278D> <U+278E><U+278F><U+2790> <U+2791><U+2792><U+2790>
                                                                                 <U+2793><U+2794><U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195>
                                          <U+276D>
                                          <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775>
                                           <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D>
                                    <U+2745><U+2746>
                              <U+2712> <U+2747>
                                <U+2748><U+274D> <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>
                                ¦<U+274F>
                                <U+2751> <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>
                                P <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A>
                                <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772>
                                 <U+2773><U+276C> <U+2768><U+2769><U+275A>

                           <U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270E><U+2711><U+2712><U+270E><U+270E>                                        <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+270F><U+271A><U+271B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+261E><U+2712><U+271C><U+2711><U+2711>
                                                            <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
<removed-date>
                                                           <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2726>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>                                        <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A> <U+272B><U+272B><U+272C>
                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2706>
                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+271D>
                  <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
                  <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F>
                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+273F><U+2740><U+273F><U+273F><U+273F><U+273F><U+273F><U+273F><U+2740><U+2740><U+2740><U+2740><U+273F><U+273F><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2701><U+2702>¦
                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2706>                                    <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A> <U+272B><U+25C6><U+2756>
                    <U+2702><U+260E><U+271D>
                    <U+2702><U+260E><U+274F>
    <U+274B>
    <U+25CF>              <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC>
    <U+274D>
    P              <U+25D7>|<U+25D7><U+2759><U+275A> <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+275B><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2774><U+2774><U+275C><U+2774><U+275D><U+2774><U+2775><U+275E>
    <U+2761>          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>                                       <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A> <U+272B><U+2666><U+25C6>
    <U+25CF>            <U+2701><U+260E><U+2702><U+2702>
    P            <U+2702><U+260E><U+2762><U+2763>
    <U+2764>            <U+2702><U+260E><U+2763><U+2702>
    <U+2710>
    <U+2765>            <U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665>
    <U+2663>            q<U+260E>qqrst<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707><U+2460><U+2461><U+2462><U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2779><U+277A> <U+277B><U+277C><U+277D><U+273F><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2780><U+2783><U+2784><U+2785><U+2786><U+2787><U+2788><U+2789><U+278A>
    <U+278B>          <U+278C><U+2702> <U+278D>                                      <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A> <U+272B><U+2666><U+272C>
    <U+278E>
                     <U+278F>
                     <U+2790>
                     <U+2791><U+2792><U+2793><U+2794><U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C><U+279D><U+279E><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1><U+27A2><U+27A4><U+27A5><U+27A6><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A9><U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF><U+27B2><U+27B3><U+27B5><U+27B8><U+27BA><U+27BB><U+27BC><U+27BD><U+27BE><U+279A><U+27AA> <U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                     <U+274F>
                     <U+27B4>
                     <U+278F>
                     <U+2790>                                 <U+27B7>
                     q<U+27AC><U+27AE><U+27B1><U+2703><U+2750><U+2752><U+276E><U+2770>ÏÐÑÏÐÒÓÔÕÖ<U+2752><U+276E>×ÏÐØÏÙÚÛÔÜÝÞßàáâãäå
                       <U+2763><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2763><U+260E><U+2763> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2702> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2763> <U+2762><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2763>   <U+2715><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2715><U+260E><U+2763> <U+271E>ø<U+261E>ö <U+2716><U+261E>øü<U+2717>
                         òóô õö÷øùúûøüö
                             ýþÿ <U+2701><U+2701><U+2702>
                         ò<U+2702>ô <U+2704>ù<U+260E>úûö<U+2706>øüö
                             ýþÿ <U+2701>ç<U+2706>
                         ò<U+271D>ô <U+271E>ö÷<U+2706><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+260E>ù<U+260E>ûú<U+261E><U+270C><U+271F><U+261E>øüö
                             ýþÿ <U+2701><U+274F>ç
                         ò<U+270D>ô   <U+270E><U+271F>ü<U+271F><U+261B>øüö
                               ýþÿ <U+2701><U+274F><U+2702>
                         ò<U+270F>ô <U+2711>ö<U+2706><U+270C>ö<U+2706>øüö
                             ýþÿ <U+2701><U+2701><U+271D>
                 <U+2701><U+2702>æ
                                                                                       <U+2718><U+2719><U+2704>ç<U+271A><U+2701><U+2701><U+271D><U+260E><U+274F><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2722><U+2715><U+260E><U+2701> <U+261E>øü
                 <U+2701><U+260E>ç
                                                                               <U+2701>ç<U+2701><U+260E><U+2701>
                 èéê
              ëì íîï
               <U+25CF>
               <U+2710>
               ð <U+2766><U+2767>ñ
                                                                      ç<U+2715>ç<U+260E><U+2701>
                 <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
                 <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC>                                         ç<U+274F>ç<U+260E>ç
                                                                                               <U+2701><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>
                 q<U+260E>q
                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>               <U+2701><U+2763><U+2702>       ç<U+2702><U+2702>        ç<U+2763><U+2702>      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>            <U+2701><U+2763><U+2702>                  <U+261E><U+2723><U+2724>

<U+2798>
<U+2798>
<U+276E>
<U+27B4>
<U+27BD>
<U+2752>
<U+27AA>
<U+279A>
                <U+2708>
<U+27BE>
<U+27BD>
<U+2750>
<U+2703>                <U+27B8><U+27B5><U+27B3><U+27B2><U+27AF><U+27AD><U+27AB><U+27A9>      <U+27A8><U+27A7><U+27A6><U+27A5><U+27A4><U+27A2><U+27A1><U+27A0><U+279F>                       <U+279E><U+279D><U+279C><U+279B><U+2799><U+2195><U+2194><U+27A3>
                                              <U+2192>
<U+27B1>
<U+27AE>
                               <U+2794><U+2793><U+2792><U+2791><U+2790><U+2780><U+278F><U+278E>                              <U+277A><U+278D><U+278C><U+278A><U+278B><U+278A><U+2789><U+2788><U+2787><U+2786><U+2785><U+2463><U+2784><U+2783><U+2782><U+2781><U+2780> <U+277F><U+277E><U+277D><U+277C><U+277B>                          <U+277A><U+2779><U+2778><U+2777><U+2776><U+2469><U+2468><U+2467><U+2466><U+2465><U+2464><U+2463><U+2462>
                                                                                      <U+2709>tsr                                        <U+2663><U+2666>
                                                               <U+2460><U+2707><U+2708>                                                          q
                                                   <U+2461>
                                            <U+2665><U+2660><U+2767><U+2766>                 <U+2765>                    <U+2761><U+2710><U+2764>             <U+2763><U+2762>
                                                                                                       <U+2772>                      <U+2761> <U+275E><U+275D>                         <U+275C>
                                                                                                        <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>   <U+276F><U+275A><U+2759>          |
                                                                                                    <U+2769><U+2768><U+2773>                                                <U+25D7>   P
                                                                                                 <U+276D><U+276C>
                                            <U+275B>          <U+2775>                                <U+273F>   <U+276B><U+276A>
                                                                                                                ø
                                   <U+25B2>          ¦                                        <U+2774>                                    <U+273B>           <U+273A>
                      <U+2756><U+2739>       <U+25C6>            <U+2751><U+274F> <U+274D>   <U+25CF> <U+274B><U+274A><U+2749><U+2748><U+2747><U+2746><U+2733><U+2745><U+2744> <U+2743> <U+2742>
                           <U+2738>                                                          <U+2741><U+2740>                 <U+272A> <U+273C><U+2729>
                                                                                                      <U+272D><U+272C><U+272B><U+273D>
                                                                                                 <U+272F><U+272E>
                               <U+2737>   <U+25BC>                                         <U+2732>                   <U+273E>
                                                                                      <U+2731><U+2730>                                <U+2727>
                                        <U+2736>
                                               <U+2735>   <U+2735>                                                                        <U+2726> <U+2725>             <U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722>
                                                           <U+271C>
                                                           <U+2734>          <U+271B><U+271A><U+2719>     <U+2718>              <U+2717>        <U+2716>     <U+2715>   <U+2714><U+2713><U+2605> <U+2712>   <U+2711>   <U+270F><U+270E>              <U+270D>
                                        <U+27B6> ÿþýüûú                                                                             ×
                                                                                                        â óá ßàÞ<U+2703> <U+27B1>ß ÝÜÚÛòÙØ×ñÖÕÔ<U+27AE><U+27AC>Ó<U+27B7> ÒÑ
                                                                                       <U+2721>                          <U+2720>
                                                                          ìëêéèôù í ç æåäã
                                                                            <U+270C><U+261E><U+261B>
                                          Ðð÷ <U+27B4>Ï <U+27B5><U+27B3><U+2798> <U+27B9><U+2770>ïöõî <U+27B6><U+27AA><U+279A><U+27B2><U+27AF><U+27AD>
                                   <U+271F><U+271E>                                             <U+2706>
                                                           <U+271D>
                                    <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+27BE><U+276E><U+27AB><U+2752><U+27A9><U+27A8><U+27A7> <U+27A6><U+27A5><U+27BD><U+2750><U+27A4>                <U+27A2><U+2793><U+27A1><U+2792><U+2791><U+27A0><U+27BB><U+279F><U+27BA><U+279E><U+27B8> <U+2790><U+278F><U+278E><U+278D><U+278C>
                                                                                                                  <U+27BC>
    <U+27AC>
    <U+27B7>
                                                                                         <U+279D><U+279C><U+279B><U+2799><U+2195><U+2194><U+27A3><U+2192><U+2794>
                                                                                                           <U+2786><U+2785><U+2784><U+2783> <U+2782>
    <U+27BA>
                                                                                                       <U+2781><U+2780><U+277F><U+277E><U+277D><U+277C><U+277B><U+277A><U+2779><U+2778><U+2777><U+2776><U+2469><U+2468><U+2467>
                                                                                                                   t
                                                                                                                    q<U+2663> <U+2666>
                                                                                                               <U+2766><U+2765><U+2710><U+2764><U+2763><U+2762> <U+2761> <U+2665><U+275E><U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+275D><U+25BC><U+25B2>
                                                                                                   <U+274D> <U+2773><U+2772> <U+2771> <U+276F><U+275A> <U+2759>|
                                                                                                    <U+25CF>  <U+274B><U+2747><U+274A><U+2749><U+2745>
                                                                                                           <U+2746> <U+2748>      <U+2744>                      <U+2743> <U+2742><U+2741> <U+2740>
                                                                                                           <U+2732> <U+2731> <U+2730><U+272F> <U+272E> <U+272C> <U+272B>
                                                                                                               <U+2724> <U+272D>             <U+2723>         <U+2722>
<U+27AA>
<U+27AA>
                                                                                                               <U+2718><U+2717><U+2711><U+2716><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271C><U+271B>
<U+27B4>
<U+2798>
<U+27AA>
<U+279A>
                                                                                      <U+278B> <U+278A><U+2789><U+2788><U+2787>
<U+27B9><U+27B6>
<U+27AA>
<U+279A>
<U+27BE>
<U+27BD>
<U+27BC>
<U+27BB>
        <removed-date>    <removed-apn>

              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>                    <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+271D><U+274D>¦<U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+274F><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                         <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6> <U+2756>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D>
              <U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+2712>                                                 <U+2745>
              <U+2714> <U+270F><U+2715><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+2712>
               <U+2716>
              <U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+271B><U+261B><U+2712>
              <U+2725><U+271C> <U+2718><U+2722><U+261B><U+261E><U+2723><U+261B><U+2724>               P
                                                  <U+25D7>
              <U+2726><U+272E> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+272F><U+2733> <U+2730><U+2731><U+261B><U+261E><U+2732><U+261B><U+270D>      <U+2745>
              <U+2734>
               <U+2735> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+261E><U+2732><U+261B><U+270D>                                     <U+2745>
               <U+2739>
               <U+273A> <U+2736><U+273B><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+2712>
              <U+273C>
              <U+273D> <U+273E><U+273F><U+272C><U+2740><U+2741><U+272C><U+2742>
                 <U+2743><U+273F><U+2743><U+2740><U+2741><U+2744><U+2743>           |          <U+2759>          <U+275A>          <U+276F>           <U+2759>
                                  <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C> <U+276D><U+276A><U+2771><U+276B><U+2774> <U+2775> <U+2774><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+2771><U+2768><U+275E><U+2761> <U+2775> <U+2774><U+275B><U+2762><U+2763><U+2771><U+2768><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766>

                           <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                            <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A>                 <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+271D><U+276C><U+276D><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+276A><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                                <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E> <U+273F><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+261B><U+2711><U+2721><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                                            <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>                                   <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>             <U+276B><U+2774><U+276B>
<removed-apn>
          <U+2719><U+261E><U+271A><U+2712><U+270E><U+270D><U+2721><U+270F> <U+271B><U+2711><U+271C><U+271C><U+2711><U+2722><U+261B><U+270F><U+270D><U+2713><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+2721><U+270F><U+270D><U+261E><U+2724><U+2714>
                                            <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>                                               <U+276B><U+2774><U+276B>
                                                   <U+2729><U+272D> <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>
                                                    <U+2730><U+272E> <U+272A><U+272B><U+272F>
                                                    <U+2735><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734>
                                                             <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2743><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2743><U+2749><U+2742><U+274A><U+274B> <U+25CF><U+2744><U+274D><U+274A><U+2747><U+2746><U+2742><U+2748>
                                                                            ¦<U+2749><U+274F><U+274F><U+2749><U+2751><U+2743><U+2748><U+2746><U+274B><U+25B2>
                                                                             <U+2749><U+2745><U+2743><U+2746><U+2742><U+2748><U+2746><U+2744><U+25BC>
                                                                  <U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+2756><U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+2759><U+275A>P<U+276F><U+25D7><U+2771><U+2772><U+2759><U+25D7>

<U+272D>
<U+272D>
<U+2736>
<U+272E>
<U+2605>
<U+2735>
<U+272B>
<U+272A>
<U+2729>
<U+2605>
<U+2734>
<U+2733>                  <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722> <U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715>                                    <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>    ÿþýüûúùø÷öõôóòñðïî í
<U+2732>                  <U+2714>                                                       ì
<U+2731>
                  <U+2713><U+2712>
                                                  ë
                       <U+2711><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>                                            êéè çæåäãâáàßÞÝÜÛÚÙØ× Ö
                  <U+2706><U+260E>                          Õ                                 ÔÓ
                                                   <U+2752><U+2752><U+2752><U+2752>ÒÑÐÏ<U+2770><U+276E><U+2752><U+2752><U+2750>               <U+2703> <U+27AE><U+27AC>
<U+2730>
<U+272F>                                                                               <U+27B1>
<U+2725>                                      <U+27B7>      <U+2798><U+27B9>
                                              <U+27BA> <U+27B8><U+27B6><U+27B6><U+27AA> <U+27B5> <U+279A> <U+279A> <U+279A><U+27BE><U+27BD><U+27BC><U+27BC><U+27BD><U+27BD><U+27BD><U+27BD><U+27BD><U+27BD><U+27BD><U+27BC><U+27BC><U+27B3><U+27BB>
<U+2725>                                       <U+27B2>
                                             <U+27B4>
                                                         <U+27AF>
                                       <U+27AD>                  <U+27AB>
                                       <U+2790><U+278F><U+278E>                                    <U+27A9><U+27A8> <U+27A7><U+27A6><U+27A5><U+27A4><U+27A2><U+27A1><U+27A0><U+2461><U+279F><U+279E><U+279D> <U+279C><U+279B><U+2799>
                         <U+2192><U+2794><U+2793><U+2792><U+2791>
                                                                                           <U+2195><U+2194><U+27A3>
           <U+278D><U+278C>
                           <U+278B><U+278A>                                                               <U+2780><U+277F><U+277E>
          <U+2789>                                                                                  <U+277D><U+277C>
<U+272B>
<U+272B>                                                 <U+2788><U+2787><U+2786>                                       <U+277B><U+277A><U+2779>
<U+272E>
<U+272D>
<U+272B>
<U+272A>
<U+272C>
<U+272B>
<U+272A>
<U+2729>
<U+2605>
<U+2727>
<U+2726>
                                                                  <U+2785><U+2785> <U+2784><U+2783><U+2782><U+2781>
    <removed-date>        <removed-apn>

                        <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271F><U+2720><U+271D><U+271D>                                                                                                               ôõö<U+271E>÷ø<U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2720>ù<U+271F><U+271F>
                                                                                                       <U+2789><U+278A><U+278B><U+278A><U+278C>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                  <U+278D><U+278E><U+278F><U+2790> <U+2791><U+2792>
                 <U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C>
                         <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>         <U+2719><U+271A>
                                                                                  <U+2793><U+2794><U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C><U+279D><U+279E><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1><U+27A2><U+27A4><U+27A5><U+27A6><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A9> <U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF><U+27B2><U+27B3><U+27B5><U+27B8><U+27BA><U+27BB><U+27BC><U+27BD>
                                                                                                <U+27BE><U+279A><U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798>                                                      úû
                 <U+2721><U+261B>
                 <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2716>                                                            <U+2703><U+2750> <U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE><U+27B1>                       <U+273F><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+27B7><U+2740><U+2741>
                                    <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722>                                                     äå æçèéêëìíîï                      <U+2742><U+2743> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+2717>              <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>                                                   ð  ñòóôõö÷                         <U+25CF><U+274D> ¦÷<U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC>
                 <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2718>               <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745>                                       <U+2752><U+276E><U+2770> ø ùúûüýþÿ                                 ä<U+2743> <U+2744><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759>                                             ü
              <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C> <U+2740><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+274B>
                                    <U+25CF><U+274D>¦<U+274F><U+2751>                           ÏÐÑÒÓÔÕÖ×ØÙÚ ÛÜÝ                                           <U+275A> <U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D>ÿ<U+276A>                       ýþÿ    ÚØ             Ö
                       <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F>                                             Þßàáâã
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701><U+2702>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>       <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                   P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F>                                                                                                                                                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+25B2>         <U+2771>                                                                                          <U+2731>     <U+2735><U+2736>
                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                                                                                       <U+2733> <U+2737>                                                     <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                                                                                                                       <U+2734> <U+2738>                                                     <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725>
                                                                                                                         <U+2739>                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2726>    <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+2725>
                                                                                <U+2704><U+260E>                                       <U+273A><U+273B>
                              <U+2772>                          <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769> <U+276C><U+276D>                 <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>                      <U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                        <U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2763><U+2764><U+2763><U+2763><U+275E><U+2710><U+2762><U+2764><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2763><U+275E><U+2663>qr<U+2766>s t<U+2709><U+2708> <U+2707><U+2460><U+2461><U+2462>      <U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726>         <U+273C><U+2736>
                          <U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+2467> <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2466>                                  <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272B> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2464>
                                                                                                                         <U+273D><U+2736>
                         <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B> <U+277C> <U+277D><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783><U+2784><U+2785><U+2786><U+2787><U+2788>
                  <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>                                                                                                     <U+273E>
              <U+276B><U+2774><U+2775>               <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761>                                                                                         <U+2762><U+2763><U+2764><U+2710><U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666>             <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>        <U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>         ð   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735> <U+2732>
              <U+2663>qr       <U+2707><U+2460><U+2461><U+2462><U+2463>
              <U+2708>st<U+2709>
              <U+2464><U+2465><U+2466> <U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777>    <U+2784>
                          <U+2778><U+2779><U+277A><U+277B><U+277C>              <U+2785> <U+2786> <U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2783>
                                             <U+277D><U+277E><U+277E><U+277F>  <U+2787><U+2788><U+2789><U+278A> <U+278B><U+278C><U+278A><U+278D>
                t<U+278E><U+278F><U+2790><U+2791><U+2792><U+2793><U+2794><U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C><U+279D><U+279E><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1><U+27A2><U+27A4>
                   <U+27B2>    <U+27B3><U+27B5>            <U+27B8><U+27BA><U+2461> <U+27BB><U+27BC>      <U+27BD><U+27BE><U+27BE>
                                                                                                                   <U+27AC>     <U+27AE><U+27B1>
              <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                       <U+2732> <U+2703>
              <U+27A6><U+27A7><U+27A8>                                                                                                      <U+2750> <U+2752><U+276E>
              <U+27A9><U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF>                                                                                                       <U+2770><U+27B1>
                                                                                                                       Ï Ð
                                                                                                                         <U+273C>Ñ
                                                                                                                       Ó Ò<U+27B1>
                                                                                                                          Ô
               <U+279A><U+27AA><U+27B6>                                                                                                                  ÕÖ×Ø ÙÚÛÜ
               <U+27B9><U+2798><U+27B4><U+27B7>                                                                                                                                    <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738> <U+2739><U+2737><U+273A><U+273B>         <U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745>
                                                                                                                   Ý Þ
                                                                                                                    ßà
                                                                                                                    áâ
                                                                                                                    ãä
                                                                                                                    åæ
                                                                                                                    ç èé
                                                                                                                    ê ëì
                                                                                                                       é
                                                                                                                       Ô
                                                                                                                              íîï         ðñòó          <U+273C><U+273D>         <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748>             <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B>

                                 <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                                                                         Þßàáß                                                   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+270C><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                âãäå æç
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                              ÿ
                    <U+2712> <U+2713>
                <U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714> <U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717>                 <U+2723><U+2724>                      ëìí   î ï ðñò èé                                                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2701><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A>               <U+2725><U+2725><U+2726>                        êè      õõõõõõõö÷
                                                                  óôõúûüýþ
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                <U+270F><U+271B> <U+271C> <U+2722>             <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>
                                   <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>                         øù                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271B><U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+272E> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734>ù
              <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2738><U+2741><U+2742> <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749> <U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF>  <U+274D>¦<U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756> P<U+25D7>| <U+2759><U+275A><U+276F>
                                                              <U+2735><U+2736><U+2737> <U+2738> <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741>                                                                                                                                        <U+279A>
                  <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C> <U+275D> <U+275E><U+2761><U+2762>        <U+2727><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768>        <U+2769> <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B>            <U+2742> <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A>                                                                     <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>¦<U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F> <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773> <U+2768> <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2468><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+2778> <U+2779>        <U+276A>                                      <U+276C> <U+276A><U+25D7>| <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9><U+274D><U+2798><U+27B4><U+25B2><U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE> <U+27B1><U+2703>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2468><U+2750><U+2752> <U+2778> <U+276E>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+2763>
                                                   <U+2666><U+2663>qrqqqq                      <U+2461><U+2462><U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466><U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+2777> <U+2777> <U+2777> <U+2778><U+2779><U+277A> <U+2466> <U+277B><U+277C><U+277D>          <U+2708><U+2707><U+2460>
                                                                                                                st<U+2709> <U+2708><U+2707><U+2460>
                                 <U+2764><U+2710><U+2765>                                                                <U+277E><U+277F><U+2660><U+2665>                    <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764> <U+2710> <U+2765><U+2766><U+2763><U+2767><U+2660><U+2762><U+2665><U+2666><U+2763><U+2666><U+2663>q<U+2665>
                                                                                                          <U+2780><U+2781>              <U+275C>             rst<U+2709><U+2708>
                                        <U+2766><U+2767><U+2660>                                                                <U+2782><U+2783><U+2784>            <U+275D>     r<U+275C><U+2708><U+2709><U+2708>
                                          <U+2665> <U+278B><U+278C><U+278D><U+278E><U+278F><U+2790><U+2791><U+2792>                                                               <U+2787><U+2788><U+2789><U+2787><U+278A><U+2789> <U+275E>
                                                                                                                <U+2785><U+2786>st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707><U+2460>                                                 <U+275D><U+277A> <U+2709><U+277B> <U+275D> <U+2781><U+2709><U+2782>
                     <U+2793><U+2192><U+2794> <U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C><U+279B> <U+279D><U+279B><U+279E><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A3><U+27A1><U+27A2><U+27A0><U+27A3><U+27A4><U+27A5><U+27A6><U+279B><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+279D><U+2192><U+27A3><U+279B> <U+279B> <U+279B><U+27A4><U+2794><U+27A9><U+27AB><U+279E><U+279F><U+27AD><U+27AF><U+27B2><U+27B5><U+27B3><U+27B8><U+27A7><U+27B8><U+27A7><U+27B8><U+27A7><U+27B8><U+27A0><U+27A3><U+279B> <U+2799><U+279B> <U+27A7><U+27A8><U+279D><U+2192> <U+27A3><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A3><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27A3><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+279D><U+2192><U+27A3><U+27A7><U+27A8><U+27BA><U+27A5><U+27BB><U+27BC><U+27BD><U+27BE><U+279A><U+27AA><U+27B6><U+27B9> st<U+2798><U+2708><U+2707><U+2460>
                                                                                                                                        r<U+2708><U+2707><U+2709><U+2707>               <U+277C><U+277D><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780>
                                                                                                                                              <U+275E><U+2460><U+2460>          <U+275E>t<U+2460>          <U+275D><U+277A><U+277A>
              <U+2774> <U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27AC><U+27AE>                                                                                                                              <U+2461>
                <U+2703><U+2752> <U+27AC><U+2750><U+27AC><U+276E>                                                                                                                               <U+2783><U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+276E><U+27B7> <U+2785><U+2786><U+2785><U+2786><U+27B4><U+2787><U+2788> <U+2789><U+278A><U+27B7><U+2788>
                 Ï<U+2770>ÑÐ <U+27AC><U+27B4><U+27AC><U+27B7><U+27AE>                                                                                                                    <U+2703><U+2462>     <U+278A><U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+278A><U+27B7>
                 ÒÓ <U+2750><U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B4><U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2465>    <U+27B4><U+27B7>
                            <U+27B4><U+27B7> <U+27B1> Ô Õ
                                                                                                                                                <U+2466><U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+27AC><U+2787>
                                          Ö×Ö Ö×Ö Ö×Ö Ö×Ö Ö×Ö Ö×Ö Ö×Ö Ö×Ö Ö×Ö                                                                   Ó     <U+27AC><U+27B7>
                                          ÛØ ÜÙ ÝÚ ÛØ ÜÙ ÝÚ ÛØ ÜÙ ÝÚ
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+27B7> <U+278B><U+278C><U+278D><U+278E><U+278D>                         <U+278F><U+2790><U+278D><U+278E><U+278D>       <U+2791><U+2792><U+278D><U+278E><U+278D>
                                            <U+2791><U+2792><U+2788><U+2793><U+278D>                      <U+278B><U+278C><U+2788><U+2793><U+278D>                       <U+278F><U+2790><U+2788><U+2793><U+278D>
                                             <U+2794>                   <U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>              <U+27AB><U+27AD>
                                                                 <U+279C><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>              <U+27B2><U+27B3><U+27AF>
                                                                 <U+279D><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>
                                                          <U+279E>      <U+279B><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>
                                                          <U+279F>      <U+27A0><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>
                                                          <U+27A1>      <U+27A2><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>
                                                          <U+27A4>      <U+27A5><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>
                                                          <U+27A6>      <U+27A7><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>
                                                                 <U+27A8><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+2194><U+279B>
                                                                 <U+27A9><U+27A3><U+27A9><U+27A9><U+2195><U+2799><U+27A9><U+27A9>               <U+27B5>            <U+27B8>            <U+27BA>            <U+27BB>             <U+27BC>         <U+27BD>            <U+27BE>

                           <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                 <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>                                 <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+271D><U+25CF><U+274D><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F>¦<U+271E><U+271E>
                                                       <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723>
<removed-date>
                                                               <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
                                                                        <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741> <U+2742><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E>                                  <U+2768><U+2740><U+2741><U+276F><U+2769><U+276C>
                                                                                                                           <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+2737><U+2738><U+275A> <U+273B> <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773>
        <U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
          <U+261E><U+270C>
                                                                                              <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2> <U+25BC> <U+25C6><U+25C6><U+2756>
                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>           <U+261E><U+2711><U+2712>       <U+261E><U+2711><U+261E>   <U+2713><U+2711><U+2712>     <U+2713><U+2711><U+261E>              <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745>           <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748>         P<U+2711><U+2712> <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774> <U+2775><U+276B><U+276A><U+275B><U+275C>
               <U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762><U+2763> <U+2764><U+2710><U+2765>                                                                       <U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663>qrstt<U+2709><U+2708><U+2460><U+2461> <U+2462>t<U+2765> <U+2463><U+2464><U+2707><U+2465><U+2462><U+2765><U+2466>q<U+2467><U+2468><U+2469><U+275E><U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+277B><U+2778><U+277C><U+2778><U+2779> <U+2778><U+277A><U+2462><U+2778>
                                                 <U+278A><U+278B>
    <U+277D>
    <U+277E><U+277F><U+2712><U+2782><U+2780>                                                                     <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2> <U+25BC> <U+25C6><U+278C><U+278D>
    <U+2781><U+2783> <U+2785>
     <U+2784>
    <U+2786><U+2787>
                                                   <U+278E>
    <U+2788> <U+2792><U+2789> <U+2793><U+2794><U+2192><U+27A3><U+2194><U+2195><U+2799><U+279B><U+279C><U+2194><U+279D><U+2194><U+2194><U+279C><U+279E><U+2194><U+2194><U+2194><U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1><U+27A2><U+27A4><U+2194><U+2194><U+2194><U+27A5><U+2194><U+2194><U+2194><U+27A6><U+2194><U+2194><U+2194><U+27A7><U+2194><U+2194><U+2194><U+27A7><U+2194><U+2194><U+2194><U+27A8><U+27A9>
                  <U+2785><U+2711><U+261E>    <U+27AB><U+27AD><U+27AF>      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2712>      <U+261E><U+2711><U+261E>   <U+2713><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2711><U+261E>       <U+2780><U+2711><U+2712> <U+278F><U+2790><U+2791>          P<U+2711><U+2712> <U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774> <U+2775><U+276B><U+276A><U+275B><U+275C>
         <U+27B2><U+275B><U+27B3><U+2774><U+275B><U+27B5>
            <U+277E><U+277F><U+27BA><U+27B8>                                                                <U+2785><U+2785><U+261E><U+2711><U+27BC>
                <U+2785>                      <U+27BC>PP<U+2711><U+2712>
                             <U+27BC><U+2782><U+27BD><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+27BB>
                                                             <U+27BE><U+2780><U+261E><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+2789>                            <U+27BE><U+2712><U+261E><U+2711><U+27BD>                        <U+2785><U+27BE><U+2785><U+2711><U+2712>
                <U+2712>     <U+27BC><U+27BE><U+261E> <U+27BC><U+261E><U+2712> <U+27BC><U+2780><U+261E> <U+27BE><U+2712><U+2712> <U+27BE><U+27BE><U+261E> <U+27BE><U+261E><U+2712> <U+27BE><U+2780><U+261E> <U+2785><U+2712><U+2712> <U+2785><U+27BE><U+261E> <U+2785><U+261E><U+2712> <U+276B><U+279A><U+27AA>

              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                               <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P                     <U+2461><U+2462><U+2463><U+271D><U+2464><U+2465><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2466><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                       <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A> <U+276F><U+2771>
<removed-apn>     <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2715>
                    <U+271B><U+270E><U+271C><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2711><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2714> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                         <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727>                                 <U+273C><U+272B><U+2726><U+2772><U+2773>
                                                                      <U+2768><U+2769>
                                        <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2724><U+272B> <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+276B><U+275B><U+276A><U+275C><U+275D>    <U+275E> <U+2761><U+2762><U+2763><U+2764> <U+2710> <U+2765><U+273E><U+272A> <U+273C><U+2767>
                               <U+272C>                                       <U+2766> <U+2766>
                               <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+272F><U+2732><U+272E>                           <U+2660><U+272F><U+2665><U+272E><U+2731><U+2732><U+272F><U+2732><U+272E>
                   <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737>                               <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737>                                  <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+273B>          <U+2738> <U+2739><U+2718><U+273A>                 <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+273B>          <U+2738><U+2739><U+2718><U+273A>
                         <U+273C><U+273D><U+2726><U+2727>                                 <U+2666><U+2663><U+2726><U+2772>
                                        <U+2605><U+273E><U+272A><U+273C><U+272B>                                <U+2765>q<U+2744><U+272B>
                              <U+273F><U+2740>                                  <U+273C><U+2745><U+2743>
                                <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+272E>                              <U+2660><U+272F><U+2665><U+272E><U+2731><U+2732><U+272E>
               <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2741>                    <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2711><U+270F><U+2713> s
                    <U+271B><U+270E><U+271C><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2711><U+270F><U+2713>        <U+2739><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>               <U+271B><U+270E><U+271C><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2711><U+270F><U+2713> r <U+2739><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+2742>         <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2744><U+272B>                      t<U+2709>       <U+2605><U+2729><U+2708><U+2724><U+2707>
                          <U+2744><U+2745><U+2743>                                  <U+273C><U+2745>
                          <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2746><U+272F><U+2747><U+2730><U+2748><U+2731><U+2732><U+272E>                            <U+2460><U+272F><U+2747><U+2730><U+2748><U+2731><U+2732><U+272E>
                          <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> ¦<U+274F><U+274F><U+274F><U+2751>                           <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> ¦<U+274F><U+2751>            <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D> ¦<U+274F><U+274F><U+2751>

              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                         <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F>                          <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+271D><U+2660><U+2665><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2666><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                   <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768> <U+2769><U+276C>
              <U+2720>
                                  <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2719>                  <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2724><U+2723><U+276A><U+2723><U+2724><U+2718>       <U+2735><U+273B><U+276D><U+2737>             <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2724><U+2723><U+276A><U+2663>q<U+2718>
                                  <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2714><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2718>
                                 <U+2725><U+2726><U+2718><U+2727><U+271B><U+2713><U+2605><U+2729><U+2716><U+272A>
                                               <U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B><U+276B><U+276B><U+276B><U+276B><U+276B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2605><U+2716><U+2762><U+2716><U+2763><U+2713><U+2714><U+2724><U+2723><U+271C><U+2723><U+2724><U+2718>
                              <U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733> <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737>    <U+2764><U+2736><U+2710><U+2737>
                                                  <U+2764><U+2736><U+2710><U+2738>
                               <U+2739> <U+273A> <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E>   <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2738>
                                                                          r<U+2732>st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2707>t<U+2709><U+272F><U+2732><U+2460>
                    <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                  <U+270C> <U+2721>
                  <U+270D> <U+270E><U+261B><U+261E>
                    <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E>
                         <U+2711> <U+273F> <U+2740> <U+2741> <U+2742> <U+2742>
                      <U+270F>
                        <U+270F> <U+270F><U+261B><U+261E>           <U+270E><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721>
                           <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2744><U+2746><U+2744><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A>  <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2749><U+274D>¦<U+274A>¦<U+274D><U+274F>
                                <U+2751><U+2743><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6> <U+2751><U+274B><U+2756>P<U+25C6>                  <U+2461><U+2462><U+2744><U+2463><U+2744><U+274B><U+25CF><U+2749><U+274D>¦<U+2464>¦<U+274D><U+274F> <U+2751><U+274A><U+2743><U+25C6>

                       <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                                <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+271D><U+2711><U+2712><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                                   <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719>
                 <U+271A><U+271B>     <U+271C><U+2722><U+272F><U+2730>                                                         <U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+2730><U+2730> <U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739>
                             <U+2730><U+2730>                                                      <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741><U+2742>
                              <U+2730>                                                                           <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745>
                 <U+2746><U+2747>     <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A><U+2730><U+2730>
                              <U+2730><U+2730>                                                                   <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>
                               <U+2730><U+2730>                                                          ¦<U+274F><U+2751>
                                <U+2730><U+2730>
              P    <U+25B2>    <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756><U+2730><U+2730>
              <U+25D7>                  <U+2730><U+2730>
              |<U+2759><U+2772>                 <U+2730><U+2730>            <U+275A><U+276F><U+2771>
              <U+2663> <U+275C>                  <U+2730><U+2730> <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769>                 <U+275D><U+275E><U+2761><U+2762> <U+2763><U+2764><U+2710> <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A> <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767> <U+276B><U+2774><U+2775><U+275B>
                        t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2730><U+2730>                         <U+2660><U+2665><U+2666>
               qr s
              <U+2461><U+2707><U+2460><U+2462>                 <U+2730><U+2730>
              <U+2463><U+2464><U+2466>
                <U+2465>                   <U+2730><U+2730>
                                     <U+2730><U+2730>
                  <U+2467>     t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2730><U+2730>
                                      <U+2730><U+2730>
                                       <U+2730><U+2730>
                                        <U+2730><U+2730>
                  <U+2468>     <U+2776><U+2777><U+2778><U+2469><U+2730>
                                         <U+2730><U+2730>
                                          <U+2730><U+2730>
                                           <U+2730><U+2730>
                  <U+2779>     <U+277A><U+277B><U+277C><U+2783><U+2730> <U+277D><U+277B><U+277E><U+277F><U+2780>                       <U+2781>                                                         <U+277E><U+277B> <U+277B><U+2782><U+2784>
                                              <U+2785> <U+2786><U+2787>    <U+2788>       <U+2789><U+278A>   <U+278B><U+278C>       <U+278D>   <U+278E><U+278F>   <U+2790>      <U+2791>       <U+2792>         <U+2793>
                                              <U+2794> <U+2192>     <U+27A3>       <U+2194>    <U+2195>        <U+2799>    <U+279B>   <U+279C>      <U+279D>       <U+279E>         <U+279F><U+27A0><U+27A1>
                                              <U+27A2> <U+27A4>     <U+27A5>        <U+27A6>   <U+27A7>        <U+27A8>   <U+27A9><U+27AB>   <U+27AD><U+27AF>     <U+27B2><U+27AF>      <U+27B3>         <U+27B5>
                                        <U+27B8><U+27BA><U+27BB><U+27BC> <U+27BD><U+27BE><U+279A><U+27AA> <U+27B6><U+27B9><U+2798><U+27B4><U+27B7><U+27AC> <U+27AE><U+27B1><U+2703><U+2750><U+2752><U+276E> <U+2770> ÏÐÑÒ ÓÔ Õ Ö×ØÙÚ

                          <U+2660><U+2767><U+2766>                 <U+2764> <U+2765><U+2710>                        <U+2764><U+2763>                     <U+2762><U+2773><U+2761>                       <U+275E><U+275D>
<U+2464>
<U+2464>
<U+277B>
<U+2467><U+2466><U+2466><U+2465>
<U+2707>
<U+277A>
<U+2462>
<U+2461>
<U+2460>
<U+2707>
<U+2779>
<U+2778>
                                             <U+276F><U+275A><U+2759><U+2784>|<U+2716><U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC><U+2787><U+25B2>à<U+2752><U+2751><U+2745><U+2794><U+27B7>âÝÝ <U+2751><U+261E><U+2787><U+270D><U+27A0><U+27AC><U+278A><U+27A3><U+274F>
<U+2777>
<U+2776>                                  q<U+2787><U+2713><U+273C><U+2194><U+2794><U+273A>ß ã<U+2194><U+273B><U+273A>Ð<U+2791><U+2750><U+2750><U+273B><U+273A><U+2739><U+2194>à<U+2195><U+27B4><U+2738><U+2749><U+27AE><U+2749><U+27AE><U+2737><U+271C><U+2736><U+2735><U+2734><U+2724><U+2784><U+2783><U+2716><U+2782><U+2733><U+2732><U+260E>                                                  <U+277E><U+2745><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+27B8> <U+272E><U+272D><U+2779><U+272C><U+27A9><U+27AF><U+272B><U+2468>
                               <U+2717>à<U+2716><U+2713><U+2713><U+2749>Ý<U+2715><U+2794><U+278A><U+2714><U+2713><U+2712>  ß <U+2711><U+270F><U+270E>Ý<U+2752>ß<U+27A3><U+27A3><U+270E><U+2792><U+2788><U+278B>Ðâ<U+270D><U+270C><U+2749><U+261E><U+261B><U+278B><U+2792><U+2788><U+2721><U+2720><U+273E><U+271F><U+2745><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                                               <U+277E><U+2745>îüö<U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701><U+27B3> ÿíþ<U+2468>ý
                <U+2663>óêò<U+277F>ñð<U+273E>ï<U+2745>îíìá<U+27A0><U+2194><U+278F>ë<U+279D><U+2787><U+278A>êÝ<U+2787><U+279D>éè<U+27B7><U+278F>çÓÝæä<U+2794><U+279B><U+27A3>å<U+2787>ä      ß ã<U+2194>ààâá<U+2794><U+2787>àßÞ<U+279D>ÝÝ<U+2749>
                                      <U+2752>ÔÓÒÑ<U+2750>Ð<U+2787><U+2745><U+2752><U+278F>Ï<U+2770><U+276E><U+2752><U+2750><U+2703><U+27B1><U+27AE><U+27AC><U+27B7><U+2789><U+2663><U+27B4><U+2798><U+27B9><U+27A8><U+27B6><U+27AA><U+27B5><U+279A><U+27AF><U+27BE><U+277F>                                                                 <U+27BD><U+2716><U+27BC><U+27BB><U+27BA>
                                  <U+279E><U+279D><U+27A3><U+279C><U+279B><U+2799><U+2195><U+2194><U+278C><U+278F><U+2749><U+27A3><U+2192><U+2794><U+2793><U+2792><U+2791><U+2790><U+278F><U+278E><U+278D><U+2787><U+278C><U+278B><U+278A><U+2789><U+2788><U+2663><U+2787><U+2745><U+2787><U+2786><U+2785><U+2784><U+2783><U+2716><U+2782><U+2781><U+2780><U+277F>                                                         <U+277E><U+2745><U+277D><U+2465><U+2462><U+277C> <U+277B><U+277A><U+2779><U+2778>
                                                                       <U+2666><U+2767><U+2665><U+2660><U+2767><U+2766><U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                   P<U+2712><U+2756>
           r                                                                    <U+2730><U+272F><U+272E> <U+272D><U+272C><U+272B><U+272A> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2727><U+2726><U+2725>
                             <U+276B> <U+276A><U+276D><U+276C>                                                                                               <U+2759>       <U+273E><U+2745><U+2744><U+2743><U+2742><U+2713>
   <U+2469>       q      <U+2768><U+2769><U+2769><U+2769> <U+2773><U+2772><U+2771><U+276F><U+275A><U+2759>|<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6>        <U+25BC><U+25B2><U+2751><U+274F>¦ <U+2769>                                                                           <U+25D7>|                          <U+273C>
   <U+2468>
   t       <U+2663>     <U+274D> <U+25CF><U+2746>      <U+274B>    <U+274A><U+2746><U+2749><U+2746><U+2745><U+2746><U+2745><U+2748><U+2747>         <U+2746> <U+2746><U+2745>                                                                                      <U+2734><U+2733><U+2732><U+2740><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+273F><U+273E><U+273D> <U+272C><U+272E> 
                                                                                                                                        <U+2738><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+272D>
   s       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                             <U+272A><U+2729> <U+2605><U+2727><U+2726><U+2725>
           <U+2665>
                     <U+2744>          <U+2743> <U+2742><U+2741><U+2740><U+273F> <U+273E><U+273D><U+273C><U+273B> <U+273A><U+2739><U+2738><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735><U+2734> <U+2733>                                                                               <U+2749><U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718>
                                                                              <U+2724><U+2723>                                                           <U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+273E><U+2714><U+2713>
                                               öõô                                                     åäãâ                                       <U+2711><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270E> 
                                                     <U+2732>        <U+2731>                                                                          <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
                              <U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713><U+2712>            <U+2722>
                                                     <U+2711>
                                                     þ ýüûú
                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                              ù <U+270F>ø<U+270E> <U+270D> ÷          <U+270C>                         á ÝÜ àßÞ                         <U+2704><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2706>ÿþ
                         <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+2702> <U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701> ÿ                                <U+277B>                                                                      ýüïûîúùø÷ö
                                                                                                                                     óòñð
                                                              ææ                                                                     <U+2784><U+2783> <U+2782><U+277B><U+2781><U+2780><U+277F>
                                            ç
<U+2462>
<U+2462>
                         óòñèð ïîíìëêéè                                                                                                  <U+2467><U+2466><U+2465><U+2464><U+276A>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2775>       <U+2774> <U+276B> <U+2463>
<U+2467><U+2466><U+2466><U+2465>                     ÛÚÙØ ×ÖÕÔÓÒÑÐ Ï<U+27B9>                     <U+2770> <U+276E> <U+2752><U+2750>                                                          <U+2762><U+275D><U+2761> <U+275E><U+275C><U+275B>
<U+2464>
<U+2462>                                       <U+2703> <U+27B1><U+27AE><U+27AC><U+27B7><U+27B4><U+2798> <U+27B9>            <U+27B6>                                                                                  |<U+25D7>   P <U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>
<U+2461>
<U+2463>                                     <U+27BC><U+27BB><U+27BA>              <U+27BD>      <U+27B8><U+27B5> <U+27AA><U+279A>                                                    <U+27BE><U+27B3>
<U+2462>
<U+2461>
<U+2460>                                         <U+2464> <U+27B2> <U+2779> <U+2778><U+2777><U+2776><U+2469><U+2468> <U+2467><U+2466> <U+2465> <U+2463> <U+27AF><U+27AD> <U+2462><U+2461><U+2460><U+2707><U+2708>       <U+27AB><U+2709>                                      <U+27A9><U+27A8>
<U+2707>                                           <U+279B> <U+2799> <U+2195> <U+2194> <U+27A3> <U+2192> <U+2794> <U+2793> <U+2792> <U+2791> <U+2790><U+278F> <U+278E> <U+278D>
<U+2708>
<U+2709>                          <U+27A7><U+2784><U+27A6><U+27A5><U+27A4> <U+2784><U+27A2><U+27A1><U+2784><U+27A0><U+279F><U+279E><U+279D><U+279C>                                <U+277B>
                            <U+2784><U+278C><U+278B> <U+278A><U+2789><U+2788><U+2787><U+2786><U+2785> <U+2784><U+2783><U+2782><U+2781>   <U+2780>             <U+277F>         <U+277E> <U+277D><U+277C> <U+277A>                                   tsrq <U+272B> <U+272A> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2725><U+2724> <U+2723>
                                                                          <U+2767> <U+2663><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2660><U+2767>                             <U+2766><U+2766><U+2766><U+2766><U+2765><U+2710><U+2764><U+2763><U+2762><U+2761><U+275E><U+275D>
                 <U+275C><U+261E><U+275B><U+2712><U+2751><U+25CF><U+2775><U+2774><U+260E><U+276A><U+276B> <U+271F><U+2773><U+2712><U+276A><U+276D><U+276C><U+2712><U+2769><U+2714><U+2768><U+2773><U+2772> <U+2720><U+2771><U+2718><U+276F><U+271F><U+275A>                                                                                 <U+2719><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2712>
       <removed-date>        <removed-apn>

              <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                               <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+2746>                                <U+2767><U+2660><U+2665><U+271D><U+2666><U+2663><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F>q<U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                           <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A> <U+274B><U+25CF>
                              <U+2720>
                                       <U+2721> <U+261B> <U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>                     <U+274D>¦<U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+2751><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7><U+274F>
                                       <U+2714><U+2715>                                |<U+2759><U+2751><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>P<U+25D7><U+274F>
<removed-apn>
                                       <U+2716> <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722>
                                  <U+2723><U+2725> <U+2726> <U+2727><U+2724>                                  <U+275A><U+276F><U+2771> <U+2762><U+2763><U+2764> <U+271B><U+271B><U+2722>
                                   <U+2605><U+272A> <U+272B> <U+272C><U+2729><U+272D>                  <U+2772><U+271B><U+2722>
                                    <U+272E><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                   <U+2731><U+2736><U+2732> <U+2733> <U+2734><U+2735>
                                      <U+2737><U+2738>                             <U+271C><U+271B><U+2722>
                                       <U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D> <U+273D> <U+273E> <U+273E><U+273F> <U+273E> <U+2740> <U+2741><U+2740> <U+2740> <U+2773><U+2773><U+2773><U+2768> <U+2773><U+2773><U+2769><U+2773> <U+276C><U+2773> <U+2773>      <U+2740> <U+2710><U+2740> <U+2740> <U+2765> <U+2766>
                                                              <U+276D><U+2774> <U+276A><U+2774> <U+276B>
                                                                <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E><U+2761>

<U+277C>
<U+277C>
<U+2785>
<U+277D>
<U+2777>
<U+2784>
<U+277A>
<U+2779>
                          Ù              å                                        Õ ÖÕ                                                      Õ                                                                        Õ
<U+2778>
<U+2777>
<U+2783>
<U+2782>                <U+2466><U+2465><U+2464><U+276C><U+2463><U+2462>       <U+27BC><U+2788><U+2461><U+2460>           <U+276C><U+278B><U+2707>                                                                                  <U+2725><U+2724>             <U+2724><U+2723> áà<U+2605><U+2722>ß                                        <U+275E><U+2466><U+275D>áà<U+2605>                      ß
                                                                            <U+2708><U+2466>         á       ß       <U+2709><U+2605>t<U+2774>s
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271C><U+271B><U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719> ¦<U+2741><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2713>
<U+2781>                                                                                                                                                                                                           ÝÜÛÚÙØ×Ö
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Þ               ÕÔÓ
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720><U+271F>
                       <U+276C><U+2763><U+2774> <U+2774> <U+276C><U+2784>                              Ù                                 <U+2783> <U+276C>                        Õ                                                      Õ
                                                                                                                                            <U+270D> <U+261E><U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276C> <U+2783>
<U+2780>                 rq<U+2663> <U+2666><U+2665><U+2660><U+2767><U+2766><U+2765>
                                <U+2710><U+2764><U+2763><U+2762><U+2761><U+275E>                                                                                            <U+2712><U+2711><U+270F>   <U+270E>    <U+270C> <U+261B>    <U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                             <U+275D><U+275C><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775><U+2775> <U+2775>               <U+276A>                                                  ÿþý
                                                                    <U+275B> <U+2774>          <U+276B>    <U+276D><U+276C>
                                                                                                <U+2769><U+2768><U+2773><U+2772><U+2771><U+276F>                                                         üû       ÒÑÐÏÏÏÏÏÏÏÏÏÏ<U+2770><U+276E><U+2752> <U+27B4><U+2750><U+2703><U+27B1><U+27AE><U+27AC><U+27B7> <U+27B4><U+2798><U+27B9><U+27B6><U+27AA><U+279A>
                                                                                                 <U+2762><U+2783>
                      <U+275A>      <U+2759>
                       ¦ <U+2743> <U+274D><U+25CF> <U+2666><U+2743><U+274B><U+274A>|
                                    <U+25D7>P                                                 <U+2756>        <U+25C6>     <U+25BC><U+25B2><U+2751><U+274F>                                  ú                                                 <U+27BB>    <U+27B3><U+275C>
                                                    <U+2749><U+2748>           <U+2747>                     <U+2746><U+2745> <U+2744> <U+2743><U+2742><U+2741><U+2740><U+2666><U+273F> <U+273E> <U+273D>
                                                                                               <U+27B2>                          <U+2727>   <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                ùø÷öõ ôóòñðï
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+27BE><U+27BD> <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27BA> <U+27B8><U+27B5>   <U+27B2> <U+27AF><U+27AD> <U+27AB><U+27A9>
                         <U+273C>        <U+2736>                                                                <U+2733>        <U+272C>
                             <U+273B><U+273A><U+2739><U+2738><U+2737>                                                                 <U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E><U+272D>                                         îíìëêéèçæ                                             <U+27A8><U+27A7><U+27A6><U+27A5><U+27A4><U+27A2><U+27A1><U+27A0><U+279F><U+279E><U+279D><U+279C><U+279B><U+277D>
                                      <U+2735><U+2734>                                                                        <U+272B><U+27B2> <U+272A><U+2729><U+2605>                                     <U+2725>å ä ã â                                                <U+2195><U+2194><U+27A3><U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2192> <U+2794><U+2793>
                                                                                       Ü
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2792><U+2791><U+2790><U+278F><U+278E>
                                                  <U+275E><U+2466><U+275D><U+275C><U+275B><U+2775><U+2774><U+276B><U+276A>ß
                                                                   ¦<U+274D><U+25CF><U+274B><U+274A> <U+2749><U+2749><U+2748>
                                                                                     <U+25B2><U+2751><U+274F>
                                                                                           <U+276D><U+276C><U+2769><U+2768><U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2464><U+2466>     <U+2772> <U+2464><U+2463>        Õ   <U+2771>
                                                                  <U+2747> <U+2746><U+2745><U+2744><U+2743>
                                                                 <U+2742><U+2741><U+2740><U+273F>                                                                                                                              <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ÝÜÛÚÙØ× ÖÕÔÓÒ
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2798><U+27B9> <U+27B6>
                                                        <U+273E><U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2774><U+2774>
                                                             <U+273C><U+273B><U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                     Õ Üå
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AA>
                                                                        <U+2739><U+2739><U+2738><U+2737><U+2736>                                                                                                               <U+27BB><U+27BA><U+27B8><U+27B5><U+27B3><U+27B2><U+27AF><U+27AD> <U+27A9>
    <U+277F>                                                          <U+2735>    <U+2734><U+2733> <U+2732>                                                                                                                            <U+27AB><U+27A9> <U+27A8><U+27A7><U+27A6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2787> <U+2786><U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278D> <U+27A5><U+27A4><U+27A2><U+278B> <U+27A1><U+27A0><U+279F> <U+2784><U+2783><U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                <U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2762>
<U+277E>                                                                     <U+272D>                                                                                                                           <U+277C>           <U+277B>              <U+277A><U+2779><U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                    Õ <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2467><U+2462><U+2466><U+2465><U+2464><U+2463><U+2462><U+2461><U+2460><U+2707>                                 <U+2708>   <U+2709>tsr               q <U+2663> <U+2665><U+2660><U+2767> <U+2766><U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                     <U+272C><U+261E><U+272B><U+272A><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727><U+2726><U+2725><U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271C><U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2762><U+2774>
    <U+2468>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2771><U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25BC><U+25B2>
<U+2467>                                                                                                                                                      <U+2775><U+2774><U+276B><U+276A><U+276D><U+276C> <U+272C> <U+2769> <U+2768><U+2773><U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2759>|<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2751><U+2751><U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¦ <U+274D> <U+25CF><U+274B>
                                                                                                              Û                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+273B> <U+273A><U+2739><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                    ÿ<U+276C> þýüûúùø÷öõô
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736><U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                            ñð
                                                                                                                                                    <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2734><U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E>  <U+272C> <U+272B> <U+272A><U+2729>                                <U+2713><U+2605>          <U+2727>      <U+2726><U+2725><U+2724>
                                                                       <U+2729>
                                                             <U+271B><U+271A><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714>                                                                         <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                  ÝßÛßóò ÞÝÜÛÚ
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715><U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2717><U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+261E><U+261B>      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                     àß   Þ                                                                  <U+2720> <U+2706><U+260E>             <U+271F><U+271E>
                                                                               <U+2713><U+2712>
                                                                     <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>í<U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                         ÒÑÐÏ<U+27A0> <U+2770><U+276E><U+2752><U+2750><U+27B3> <U+2703> <U+279E><U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                        <U+2706> <U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                            <U+2702><U+2701>       ÿ
                                                                         <U+272C> <U+271B>                                                                                              <U+27B2><U+27AF><U+27AD><U+27AB><U+27A9><U+27A8><U+27A7><U+27A6><U+27A5><U+27A4><U+27BD><U+27A2><U+27A1><U+27BC><U+27BB><U+279F>
                                                                 þýüûúùø÷öõ
                                                                     ô óò     ï
                                                                      î     ñð îí
                                                                                                                                   ìëéêéèçæÜåä ãâáà
                                                                                  ìë
                                                                                    ê éê éèç
                                                                 Ýß ÜÛ Õ Üå
                                                                                          <U+2793><U+2792><U+2791><U+2790><U+278F><U+278E>                                                         <U+278B><U+278A><U+2789><U+2788> <U+2466><U+2465> <U+2464><U+2463> <U+2462>
                                                                         <U+2782><U+2781><U+2799><U+2195><U+2780><U+2194><U+27A3><U+277F><U+2192><U+2794> <U+277E>                                                     <U+2779><U+2778><U+2777><U+278D><U+2776><U+278C><U+2469><U+2468><U+2766><U+2467>
                                                                      æ              å     ä           ãâá
                                                                  <U+2461><U+2787><U+2786><U+2785><U+2784><U+2460><U+2783><U+2707><U+2774><U+2763><U+2762><U+2761><U+275E><U+275D><U+275B><U+275C><U+2775><U+2774><U+276B><U+276A><U+276D><U+276C> <U+2708><U+2769><U+2709>t srq q q q q q<U+2768>q <U+2773>q <U+2772>q q<U+2771>q q q q q <U+2663><U+2666><U+2665> <U+276B><U+277D><U+277C><U+2660><U+277B><U+277A><U+2767><U+276F><U+275A><U+2759>|<U+25D7>P<U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC><U+25B2><U+2751><U+274F> ¦<U+274D> <U+25CF><U+2765><U+2710><U+2764>
                                                                                        <U+2741><U+2740>                                                                   <U+2725><U+273E> <U+271B><U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
<U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                <U+273F>
<U+277A>
                                                                               <U+2742><U+273D><U+273C><U+273B><U+273A><U+2739><U+2738><U+2737><U+2729><U+2736><U+2735><U+2734><U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F>                                                <U+272E><U+2726><U+272D> <U+272C> <U+272B> <U+272A> <U+2729> <U+2605><U+2727> <U+2726>
<U+277D>
<U+277C>
<U+277A>
<U+2779>
<U+277B>
<U+277A>
<U+2779>
<U+2778>
<U+2777>
                                                                                                                              <U+270C><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
<U+2776>
<U+2469>
        <removed-date>              <removed-apn>

<U+2716>
<U+2716>
<U+2724>
<U+2717>
<U+2711>
<U+2723>
<U+2714>
<U+2713>
<U+2712>
<U+2711>
<U+2722>
<U+271C>
                                                                                                          <U+2780><U+277B><U+277A><U+277D><U+2778><U+2777>    <U+277E><U+277B><U+277A>
<U+271B>
<U+271A>
                                                          <U+261E><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
                     <U+271D> <U+2706><U+260E>           <U+2704><U+2468><U+2702>           <U+2752><U+2701>                   ÿþý
                        ü
                 <U+2468>û ú
                        ó                                                              ù
                 ÷ö                                                                   õø
                        ó                                                                        ô
              ð                                                                        ò         ñ
<U+2719>            íì ëê éè<U+2770>                                                                çï         î
                                                                                                 æ
             âåá        <U+2770>ä                                                           à         ã
<U+2718>
<U+270D>
<U+270C>
             ÞÚ ÙØ ×ÖÝÑ                                                             Ü
                                                                                    Õ          ÛÔßÓ
             Ò                                                                                 Ð
             Ï           <U+2770>                                                                       <U+27AE>                 q<U+2739><U+2663><U+2716>
             <U+27AC><U+276E>  <U+2752>  <U+2750> <U+2703> <U+27B1>                                                                      <U+27B4>
                         <U+2798><U+27B7>                                                                    <U+27B9>
                 <U+2468><U+27B6>   <U+27AA> <U+279A>           <U+27BE><U+27BD><U+27BC><U+27BB>
                          <U+27BA>     <U+27B8>          <U+27B5><U+27B3>                                                                         <U+2605>
                 <U+2468><U+27A9> <U+279C> <U+27A8><U+279B><U+27B2> <U+27A7><U+27A6><U+2799> <U+27AF><U+27A5>                <U+27AD> <U+27A4><U+27A2><U+27A1><U+27A0>
                                                         <U+2195> <U+2192><U+2194><U+279F> <U+279E>
                                                                   <U+27AB>                       <U+279D>
                         <U+27A3>
                 <U+2794><U+2793> <U+2792>
                                                                             <U+2791><U+2790><U+278F><U+278E><U+2787><U+278D> <U+278C><U+278B><U+278A><U+2789><U+2788><U+2787>
<U+2714>                                                                                                                     <U+2605>
<U+2714>
<U+2717>
<U+2716>
                                                                                                                     <U+2716><U+2715>
<U+2714>
<U+2713>
<U+2715>
<U+2714>
                                                                                                      <U+277F>
<U+2713>
<U+2712>
<U+2711>
<U+270F>
<U+270E>
                                                                             <U+2786><U+2785><U+2784><U+2783><U+2782><U+2781>
    <removed-date>             <removed-apn>

                               <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                                                  <U+276B><U+276B><U+2774><U+276B><U+2775>                                                    t<U+2709><U+2708><U+271D><U+2707><U+2460><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2461><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D>                                                                        <U+275B><U+275C><U+275D><U+275E> <U+2761><U+2761>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713>                                                                                                 s                                                           <U+2462><U+2463><U+2725><U+2464><U+273C>
                         <U+2714>
                        <U+2715>
                         <U+2716>
                        <U+2717><U+2718>                                                               <U+2762>
                         <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2736><U+2465><U+2466><U+2739><U+2726><U+2711><U+2711>
                         <U+2713>
                         <U+271A>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2717>           <U+271C>
                   <U+2716><U+271B><U+2717><U+271B><U+2718><U+2717>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2462><U+2463><U+2725><U+273C><U+2467>
                   <U+2717><U+271B><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2719>
                   <U+2717><U+271B><U+2717><U+271B><U+2717><U+2715>
                           <U+2711>                              <U+2725>                      <U+2726>                    <U+2763>                          <U+2468>                     <U+2467>               <U+2469>           <U+273F><U+2776><U+2742><U+261E> <U+2777><U+2742><U+2776><U+2721><U+2778>
                   <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2731><U+2735><U+2733>
               <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738>                    <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2605><U+272B><U+272C>                                                                                 <U+2744><U+273D><U+2710><U+274D><U+2746>
                      <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>                        <U+273D>
                   <U+273E><U+273F><U+2739><U+2740><U+270D><U+2741><U+2742><U+2734><U+2735>                      <U+2743>
                                                  <U+2744>                                            <U+2746><U+2764><U+2710><U+274D><U+2745>                                                     <U+2744><U+2764><U+2710><U+274D><U+2746>
                                                  <U+2745> <U+2746><U+2745><U+2745>        <U+2746><U+2744><U+2747>         <U+2746><U+2747><U+2745>               <U+2746><U+25BC><U+2747> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2745>                       <U+2744><U+2744><U+2747>            <U+2744><U+2747><U+2745>          <U+2744><U+25BC><U+2747> <U+2743><U+2745><U+2745>             <U+2743><U+2744><U+2747>       <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B>
                   <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2733>
               <U+2748><U+2749><U+274A> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738>                   <U+274B><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2605><U+272B><U+272C>
                      <U+2739><U+25CF><U+2711><U+2711>                   <U+2744><U+274D><U+2744><U+274D><U+2747><U+2745>                                                                <U+2744><U+273D><U+2743><U+274D><U+2746>                 <U+2744><U+2764><U+2745><U+274D><U+2746>
                   <U+273E><U+273F><U+2739><U+2740><U+270D>¦<U+2742><U+2734><U+2735>                 <U+274F><U+2751><U+2746><U+274D><U+25B2><U+2745>                                  <U+2746><U+2764><U+2743><U+274D><U+2746>         <U+2744><U+2746><U+2747><U+274D><U+2746>
                                             <U+2745><U+274D><U+2745><U+274D><U+2747><U+2745>           <U+2746><U+2743><U+25BC><U+274D><U+2746> <U+2746><U+2747><U+2745>                      <U+2744><U+2745><U+2745>                      <U+2744><U+2747><U+2745>                        <U+2743><U+2745><U+2745>             <U+2743><U+2747><U+2745>                 <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B>
                   <U+25D7><U+2733><U+2731>|<U+2734><U+2735><U+2733>
               <U+25C6><U+2756>P <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738>                   <U+274B><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2605><U+272B><U+272C>
                      <U+2739><U+25CF><U+2711><U+2711>                       <U+2743>                                                                 <U+2744><U+273D><U+2743><U+274D><U+2746>
                   <U+273E><U+273F><U+2739><U+25CF><U+270D><U+25CF><U+2742><U+2734><U+2735>                     <U+2744>                                   <U+2746><U+2764><U+2743><U+274D><U+2746> <U+2746><U+2765><U+2765><U+274D><U+2665> <U+2746> <U+2744> <U+2747><U+2660><U+2746>
                                                 <U+2745>                                     <U+2766> <U+2746><U+2767><U+2743><U+2660> <U+2744><U+2746><U+2666><U+2746><U+274D><U+2746> <U+2663>
                                                                     <U+2746><U+2747><U+2745>                    <U+2744><U+2745><U+2745>          <U+2744><U+2747><U+2745>                                     <U+2743><U+2745><U+2745>             <U+2743><U+2747><U+2745>                 <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B>
                   <U+275A><U+2731><U+276F>|<U+2771><U+2734><U+2735><U+2733>
               <U+25C6><U+2759>P <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738>                   <U+274B><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2605><U+272B><U+272C>
                      <U+2739><U+273A><U+273C><U+2772>                      <U+2747><U+273D>                                         <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+274D><U+2745>
                   <U+273E><U+273F><U+2739>¦<U+270D><U+2741><U+2742><U+2734><U+2735>                     <U+2743><U+2744>
                                                <U+2746><U+2745>                                                                               <U+2744><U+277C> <U+274D><U+2746>
                                                                     <U+2746><U+2747><U+2745>                     <U+2744><U+2745><U+2745>                      <U+2744><U+2747><U+2745>                  <U+2744><U+2764><U+25BC><U+274D><U+2745> <U+2743><U+2745><U+2745>             <U+2743><U+2747><U+2745>                 <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B>
                   <U+25D7><U+2733><U+2731><U+2742><U+2731><U+276F>|<U+2771><U+2734><U+2735><U+2733> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+276C><U+276D><U+2605><U+272B><U+272C><U+276A>
               <U+2773><U+2768><U+2769> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738>                                                                                     <U+2744><U+2744><U+2765><U+274D><U+2746>
                      <U+2739><U+273A><U+273C><U+2772>         <U+2744><U+274D><U+2745>
                   <U+273E><U+273F><U+2739><U+2711><U+270D><U+273B><U+2742><U+2734><U+2735>       <U+274F><U+2751><U+25B2>                                               <U+2746><U+2764><U+2747><U+274D><U+2745> <U+2744><U+2746><U+2746><U+274D><U+2745>
                                   <U+2746><U+274D><U+2745>
                                   <U+2745><U+274D><U+2747>                                                q<U+2746><U+2765>r<U+2743><U+274D><U+2745><U+2744><U+2745><U+2745>
                                   <U+2745><U+274D><U+2745>                               <U+2746><U+2747><U+2745>                                              <U+2744><U+2747><U+2745> <U+2744><U+277C><U+2765><U+274D><U+2745>                  <U+2743><U+2745><U+2745>             <U+2743><U+2747><U+2745>                 <U+2779><U+277A><U+277B>

                          <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271E><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706>                             <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2740><U+2741>                              <U+2743><U+2744><U+2745><U+271D><U+2746><U+2747><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2748><U+271E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                                 <U+2749><U+274A><U+274B><U+25CF> <U+274D>¦
              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>                                                   <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D> <U+25BC><U+25C6><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2756> <U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
     <U+2713>        <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+271B><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2724> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>                        <U+2751><U+274F><U+25B2><U+2733>       <U+2714>P<U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+25D7><U+272E><U+271B>|<U+2759><U+271B><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+273C><U+275A><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+273C><U+272D><U+276F> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>
<removed-apn>
    <U+2730><U+2732><U+2731>                                     <U+2715>                            <U+2732><U+2733>
      <U+2733>
              <U+2714><U+2735><U+2716> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2718><U+271C><U+271B><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2738><U+2739><U+2726><U+2727><U+273A><U+273B><U+2724> <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+273C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2722>
                                            <U+2735>
          <U+2734>                <U+273C>      <U+2727>       <U+272C>        <U+273D>   <U+273E>    <U+273F>                 <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A> <U+273A><U+272C><U+276B><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+25D7><U+2737><U+2718><U+271C><U+271B><U+2719><U+2723><U+272F>      <U+2771><U+2772>
                                                           <U+272A><U+272F><U+272E><U+2723> <U+2773><U+272E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2768>         <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+273A><U+273B><U+2724>   <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+2727><U+272D><U+273F><U+272E><U+272F><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
                                                                           <U+2769><U+276C><U+276C><U+276A> <U+2774><U+272F><U+2759><U+2718><U+2719><U+25D7><U+272E><U+271B>|<U+2759><U+272F>
                                                                           <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+273C><U+2724>   <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+2605> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>              <U+2775><U+2775>
                                                                          <U+2605>                <U+273C>      <U+2727>     <U+272C>        <U+273D>   <U+273E>     <U+272A><U+272F><U+273F><U+272E><U+2723> <U+2773><U+272E><U+272F><U+2722><U+2768>

