PROCESSES FOR FRACTURING A WELL
ABSTRACT
There is disclosed a process comprising: pumping a first volume of fracturing fluid through at
least a portion of tubing (16) positioned in a subterranean well bore (10) at a velocity sufficient
to deform at least one packer (22A, 23A) that is carried on said tubing (16) into sealing
engagement with the well bore (10); and thereafter, pumping said first volume of fracturing fluid
at a pressure sufficient to fracture a subterranean environs (18).

                                                   1
PROCESSES FOR FRACTURING A WELL
Cross-Reference to Related Application
       The content of Australian Patent Application No. 2012295502 is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety.
Field
       The present invention relates to processes and systems for fracturing a subterranean
environs after significant movement of tubulars in a well bore have occurred, and more
particularly, to processes and systems for fracturing a subterranean environs wherein a
fracturing fluid is used to set packers adjacent an opening in tubing positioned in a subterranean
well bore and to fracture a subterranean formation.
Background
       In the production of fluid from a subterranean well, a well bore may be drilled in a
generally vertical, deviated or horizontal orientation so as to penetrate one or more subterranean
formations. The well is typically equipped by positioning casing which may be made up of
tubular joints into the well bore and securing the casing therein by any suitable means, such as
cement positioned between the casing and the walls of the well bore. Thereafter, the well may
be completed in a typical manner by conveying a perforating gun or other means of penetrating
casing to a position that is adjacent the subterranean formation of interest and detonating
explosive charges so as to perforate both the casing and the subterranean formation. In this
manner, fluid communication may be established between the subterranean formation and the
interior of the casing to permit the flow of fluid from the subterranean formation into the well.
Production tubing that is equipped with a packer for sealing the annulus between the casing and
the production tubing may be run into the well. Care must be taken in lowering the production
tubing through the fluid that is present in the well. If the velocity of formation fluid passing the
production packer as the production tubing is lowered into the well is too great, the occurrence
of severe suction effects or swabbing may cause deformation of the packer resulting in
premature setting thereof. Accordingly, care is taken to either lower the production tubing
within the well at a low enough rate to ensure against premature setting due to swabbing or to
employ a packer that is designed with means, for example internal flow paths and/or mechanical

                                                    2
locking mechanisms, that allow it to be lowered at higher speeds. Once positioned in the well,
the elastomeric sealing element of the packer can be mechanically or hydraulically expanded
into sealing engagement with the casing. Fluid produced from the subterranean formation into
the casing can be produced to the surface via the production tubing.
       Alternatively, a well may be completed as an "open hole", meaning that intermediate
casing is installed and secured within the well bore by conventional means, such as cement, but
terminates above the subterranean formation of interest. Typically, a tubular liner may be
positioned within the well bore along the subterranean formation of interest and may be
anchored to the intermediate casing near the end of the liner proximate to the well head. As
positioned within the well, cement is not employed in the annulus between the tubular liner and
the well bore. The well may be subsequently equipped with production tubing or casing and
conventional, associated equipment so as to produce fluid from the subterranean formation of
interest to the surface. As with a fully cased well, the lower casing or tubular liner may be
equipped with one or more packers on the exterior thereof. This well system may also be used to
inject fluid into the well to assist in production of fluid therefrom or to inject fluid into the
subterranean formation to assist in extracting fluid therefrom.
       Further, it is often desirable to stimulate the subterranean formation of interest to enhance
production of fluids, such as hydrocarbons, therefrom by pumping fluid under pressure into the
well and the surrounding subterranean formation of interest to induce hydraulic fracturing
thereof. Thereafter, fluid may be produced from the subterranean formation of interest, into the
well bore and through the production tubing and/or casing string to the surface of the earth.
Where it is desired to stimulate or fracture the subterranean formation of interest at multiple,
spaced apart locations along a well bore penetrating the formation, i.e. along an open hole,
isolation means, such as packers, may be actuated in the open hole to isolate each particular
location at which injection is to occur from the remaining locations. Thereafter fluid may be
pumped under pressure from the surface into the well and the subterranean formation adjacent
each isolated location so as to hydraulically fracture the same. The subterranean formation may
be hydraulically fractured simultaneously or sequentially. Conventional systems and associated
methodology that are used to stimulate subterranean formation in this manner include swellable
packer systems with sliding sleeves, hydraulically set packer systems, ball drop systems, and
perforate and plug systems.

                                                   3
      In conventional open hole operations, many if not all of the isolation packers deployed on
a tubular liner may be set substantially concurrently. For example, an isolation packer may
include an elastomer which swells upon contact with liquid, such as formation liquid, drilling
liquid or other liquids injected into the well. As these packers are set prior to injection of
fracturing fluid through the production casing or tubing, the subsequent injection of fracturing
fluid at relatively high rates and pressures balloons the tubular liner outwardly thereby causing
the same to contract in length. Further, the injection of fracturing fluid from the well head at
generally ambient temperatures, e.g. 600 F. to 700 F., and at relatively high rates does not allow
sufficient time for the fracturing fluid to warm up to bottom hole temperatures, e.g. 250' F.
Thus, the relative cool fracturing fluid causes the tubular liner to contract in length even more.
Such contraction, which can amount up to 10 feet or more in length, often may damage the
packers that were previously set thereby causing the packers to fail, i.e. leak, thereby allowing
fluid communication around the packer in the annulus between the tubular liner and walls of the
open hole. Also, the relatively high pressure at which the fracturing fluid is injected often causes
the set packers to fail. Previous methods employed to mitigate the effects of such tubing
movement, such as the use of expansion joints in the tubular liner, are expensive and have not
proved to be reliable. Accordingly, a need exists for processes for stimulating intervals of a
subterranean environs at spaced apart locations which minimizes failure and damage to packers
used to isolate intervals that may occur due to tubing movement.
Object of Invention
      It is an object of the present invention to at least substantially address the above need, or
provide a useful alternative.
Summary of Invention
      In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process
comprising:
         pumping a first volume of fracturing fluid through at least a portion of tubing positioned
in a subterranean well bore at a velocity sufficient to deform at least one packer that is carried
on said tubing into sealing engagement with the well bore; and thereafter,
         pumping said first volume of fracturing fluid at a pressure sufficient to fracture a
subterranean environs.

                                                     4
       In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process
comprising:
         actuating at least one packer into sealing engagement with a subterranean well bore
adjacent to a first opened port in a tubular positioned in said subterranean well bore, said tubular
having a plurality of closed ports and packers adjacent to each of said plurality of closed ports
which are not actuated.
       In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a process
comprising:
         pumping a stimulation fluid through a liner positioned in an open hole of a subterranean
well, wherein each packer that is positioned on the exterior of said liner is not set until
substantially all movement of said liner due to a change in temperature and pressure has
occurred.
       There is also disclosed a process for pumping a first volume of fracturing fluid within an
annulus formed between a subterranean well bore and a tubular positioned within the
subterranean well bore at a velocity sufficient to deform at least one first packer into sealing
engagement with the well bore. Thereafter, at least a portion of the first volume of fracturing
fluid may be pumped into the subterranean environs in proximity to the at least one first packer
at a pressure sufficient to fracture the subterranean environs.
Brief Description of Drawings
       The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form a part of the
specification, illustrate the embodiments of the present invention and, together with the
description, serve to explain the principles of the invention. In the drawings:
       FIG. 1 is a partially cross sectional illustration of an embodiment of the present invention
that utilizes tools in production tubing that may be deployed in a subterranean well and
selectively open and closed;
       FIG. 2 is a sectional view of the embodiment of FIG. 1 illustrating pumping of fracturing
fluid through production tubing, the open sleeve in a tool and into

the annulus defined between production tubing and the open hole of the
subterranean well;
         FIG. 3 is a sectional view of the embodiment of FIG. 1 illustrating pumping
of fracturing fluid into the subterranean environs adjacent the open sleeve to
form fractures in the environs; and
         Fig. 4 is a sectional view of the embodiment of FIG. 1 illustrating fractures
formed in the subterranean environs adjacent to each tool on production tubing
in accordance with the processes of the present invention.
      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
        The processes and systems of the present invention may be practiced
and deployed in a subterranean well 10 which may be formed by any suitable
means, such as by a rotary or percussive drill string, as will be evident to a
skilled artisan. The subterranean well 10 extends from the surface of the earth
13, including a sea bed or water platform or vessel, and penetrates one or more
subterranean environs 18 of interest. As used throughout this description, the
term "environs" refers to one or more areas, zones, horizons and/or formations
that may contain hydrocarbons. The well may have any suitable subterranean
configuration, such as generally vertical, generally deviated, generally horizontal,
or combinations thereof, as will be evident to a skilled artisan. Once the well is
formed, it may be completed by cementing a string of tubulars, i.e. a casing
string, in the well and establishing fluid communication between the well and the
subterranean environs of interest by forming perforations through the casing and
into the environs. Such perforations may be formed by any suitable means,
such as by conventional perforating guns. Thereafter, production tubing may be
positioned within the well and the annulus between the production tubing and
casing (or well bore in the case of an open hole completion) may be sealed,
typically by means of a plurality of packer assemblies as hereinafter described.
Fluids, such as oil, gas and/or water, may then be produced from the
subterranean environs of interest into the well via the perforations in the casing
and to the surface via production tubing for transportation and/or processing.
Where the well has a generally horizontal configuration through the subterranean
environs of interest, the well may be provided with intermediate casing which

 may be secured within the well by any suitable means, for example cement, as
will be evident to a skilled artisan. The intermediate casing may extend from the
surface of the earth to a point near the subterranean environs of interest so as to
provide an open hole completion through a substantial portion of the
subterranean environs of interest that are penetrated by well. Another tubular,
such as a tubular liner, may also be positioned within the well and may be sized
to extend through the intermediate casing and into the open hole of the well
within the subterranean environs of interest.         Such tubular liner may be
uncemented through the subterranean environs of interest and anchored near
one end thereof to the intermediate casing in any manner as will be evident to a
skilled artisan.
         In accordance with a broad embodiment of the present invention as
illustrated in Fig. 1, a subterranean well 10 extends from the surface of the earth
 13, inclusive of a sea bed or ocean platform, and penetrates one or more
subterranean environs 18 of interest. Although the well 10 may have any
suitable subterranean configuration as will be evident to a skilled artisan, the well
is illustrated in Fig. 1 as having a generally horizontal configuration through the
subterranean environs 18 of interest. The well can be provided with intermediate
casing 14 which can be secured within the well 10 by any suitable means, for
example cement (not illustrated), as will be evident to a skilled artisan. As will be
evident to a skilled artisan, the well may be provided with other casing, for
example surface casing. The intermediate casing is illustrated in Fig. 1 as
extending from the surface of the earth to a point near the subterranean environs
18 of interest so as to provide an open hole through a substantial portion of the
subterranean environs 18 of interest that are penetrated by well 10. A tubular
liner 16 may also be positioned within the well and is sized to extend through the
intermediate casing 14 and into the open hole 17 of well 10 within the
subterranean environs 18 thereby defining an annulus 15 between the open hole
17 and tubular liner 16. Such tubular liner may be uncemented through the
subterranean environs of interest and anchored near one end thereof to the
intermediate casing in any manner as will be evident to a skilled artisan. Tubular
liner 16 is further provided with a one or more tools 20A-N to selectively provide
a fluid communication between the subterranean environs 18 and the interior of

 tubular liner 16. Although illustrated in the drawings as sliding sleeves, tools
 20A-N can be any tool that is capable of selectively providing fluid
 communication through the side wall thereof via an opening or port, for example
 frac ports.     The sliding sleeve in each of tools 20A-N as illustrated in the
 drawings may be manipulated to open and closed positions by any suitable
 means, for example wireline, coil tubing, radio frequency devices, ball drop,
 hydraulic pressure, or combinations thereof, as will be evident to a skilled
 artisan. As the number of tools will vary depending upon the exact application,
 the total number of tools that are positioned in a well and capable of being
 selectively opened and closed is designated by the letter "N". As liner 16 is
 initially positioned in the open hole 17, all sliding sleeves may be closed so that
fluid may be circulated through the end of the tubular liner 16 into the toe of the
 well and the annulus 15 between the tubular liner and open hole so as to aid in
 positioning the liner 16 within the open hole. During this stage of the process,
the rate of fluid circulated past the packers in the annulus is controlled to be less
than that required to deform the packers.
          A set of packers 22A-N, 23A-N are positioned on the tubular liner 16
adjacent to each of the tools 20A-N as close as practical to the selective opening
 in each tool. As the number of packers 22, 23 will vary depending upon the
exact application and the total number of tools 20 that are positioned within a
well, the total number of packer sets that are positioned in a well and capable of
being selectively opened and closed is designated by the letter "N". The packers
22A-N, 23A-N of each set are designed to be subject to deformation or swabbing
at a given pressure which can be generated by fluid flow across the packing
element exceeding a predetermined velocity. Any suitable packer which can be
deformed by application of sufficient fluid pressure and flow rate to the exterior
thereof may be employed in the processes of the present invention as will be
evident to a skilled artisan, for example conventional cup seal packers. The set
of packers distal from the surface of the earth may only consist of the packer
22A since the toe or end of the well 10 may serve to direct fracturing fluid into
the subterranean environs 18 adjacent tool 20A in lieu of packer 23A.
          Inoperation, the sliding sleeve in tool 20A may be opened by any suitable
means, such as by a ball dropped in intermediate casing 14 and tubular liner 16,

 and a suitable fracturing fluid can be pumped from the surface 13 through
 intermediate casing 14 and into tubular liner 16 by any suitable means as will be
 evident to a skilled artisan. As illustrated by arrows 40 in Fig. 1, the fracturing
 fluid pumped down tubular liner 16, exits the open port in tool 20A and flows in
 both directions within annulus 15 past the two adjacent packers 22A, 23A. The
 relatively cold temperature and high injection rate of the fracturing fluid causes
 contraction of the tubular liner as the fracturing fluid is pumped down the tubular
 prior to the packers being set. The velocity of the fracturing fluid in annulus 15
 as the fluid flows past packers 22A, 23A is sufficiently high to cause each packer
 22A, 23A to deform outwardly into sealing engagement with the open hole 17 as
 illustrated in Fig. 2. Depending upon the particular method employed to open
 the port in tool 20A, a significant amount of contraction may occur before the
 packers are deformed. Another method of inducing tubing movement prior to
 packer setting may be to pump the fracturing fluid at a rate below that sufficient
 to cause the packers to deform or actuate. Once the tubing has substantially
 contracted, the fracturing fluid rate can be increase to deform or actuate the
 packers.     Once these packers have been deformed, the fracturing fluid is
 constrained from flowing in the annulus 15 past the deformed packers 22A, 23A
 and instead is directed into the subterranean environs 18 adjacent tool 20A
 under a pressure sufficient to form fractures 30A extending radially, outwardly
from the open hole 17 into the subterranean environs 18 adjacent tool 20A
 (Fig. 3). Subsequently, the sleeve in tool 20A is closed as will be evident to a
 skilled artisan and the steps of opening the sleeve in a tool 20, pumping
fracturing fluid through the production tubing 16 and open sleeve in the tool 20 at
a velocity sufficient to deform the adjacent set of packers 22, 23, and continued
 pumping of the fracturing fluid until fractures 30 are created in the subterranean
environs 18 adjacent the tool are repeated for each of the tools 201B-N, as
desired. (See Fig. 4) Alternatively, the sleeve in tool 20A may remain open and
the steps of opening the sleeve in a tool 20, pumping fracturing fluid through the
production tubing 16 and open sleeve in the tool 20 at a velocity sufficient to
deform the adjacent set of packers 22, 23, and continued pumping of the
fracturing fluid until fractures 30 are created in the subterranean environs 18
adjacent the tool may be repeated for each of the tools, as desired. Depending

 on the formation type and the pump rates, the second volume can be
 encouraged to go through the second port in preference to the first port even
 with the first port still open. Or, the second volume of fracturing fluid may be
 prevented reaching the first port by blocking (fully or partially) the interior of the
 tubing between the first and second ports. Thus, the second volume is forced to
 exit via the second port. The blocking may be accomplished by any suitable
 means as will be evident to a skilled artisan, such as by means of a ball on a
 seat or a flapper valve. When fracturing is complete, the blockage may be
 removed. Thereafter, the well may be equipped with a suitable production tubing
 11 which is positioned within intermediate casing 14 and sealing secured to one
 end of tubular liner 16 in a manner as will be evident to a skilled artisan and fluid
 produced from the subterranean environs 18 of interest as indicated by the
 arrows in Fig. 4.
         The following example demonstrates the practice and utility of the present
 invention, but is not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof.
                                       EXAMPLE
         A well is drilled with intermediate casing set and cemented to 10,000 feet
 and at this depth the wellbore deviation is nearly 90 degrees, horizontal with 7"
 OD intermediate casing.          The well is subsequently drilled to 18,000 feet
 measured depth by further horizontal drilling. A 4.5" OD liner is run from 18,000
feet and hung off in the 7" casing with a liner packer at 9,700 feet. As hung off
the casing, this liner is positioned within the open hole and has integral sliding
sleeves and packers attached to the exterior thereof. Fracturing fluids are
 pumped into the lowermost zone (only a single cup packer to keep fluid from
 moving upward above the sleeve). As this pumping continues at high pressure
and with cold fluid, liner contraction occurs and the lowermost interval is fracture
stimulated. A ball is dropped and the second frac sleeve is opened. Very little
additional liner contraction occurs because of continual operations at
substantially the same pressure rate and the same temperature of the fracturing
fluids being pumped. As soon as flow at high rate exits the second port, the
packers either side of the second port actuate and create a pressure barrier to
keep fracturing fluids contained along a short section of the horizontal

wellbore. As pressures increase, the formation fractures and fluids are injected
into the formation for wellbore stimulation.
         Thus, it can be readily appreciated that the processes and systems of the
present invention may be employed to set packers associated with a tool that
can be selectively opened and closed by use of the same fluid that is used to
fracture the subterranean environs adjacent an open tool. The packers 22, 23 of
the present invention can be further designed so that when deformed the
packers seal the annulus 17 against flow only in one axial direction when it is
desired to permit flow from an interval of unfractured subterranean environs into
production tubing 16 or these packers can be designed to seal flow in both axial
directions when it is desired to isolate an interval of unfractured subterranean
environs from production tubing 16.
        As packers used in accordance with the processes and systems of the
present invention are set by the application of fracturing fluid just prior to
fracturing, it will be readily appreciated that the majority of tubing movement, i.e.
tubing contraction, caused by the relatively cool temperature of the high injection
rate fracturing fluid occurs prior to packers being set, and thus, the problems
associated with setting packers well in advance of the injection of fracturing fluid,
i.e. failure due to tubing movement, are inhibited.            Further, although the
processes and systems of the present invention have been illustrated in
Figs. 1-4 as being applied to an open hole interval, it will be readily understood
that the processes and systems of the present invention may be applied to a well
that is cased at least partially through the subterranean environs of interest. It
will be evident to a skilled artisan that the completion assembly and process may
include other equipment, for example centralizer(s), float collar(s) and float
shoe(s), and processes associated with the installation of such equipment.
        While the foregoing preferred embodiments of the invention have been
described and shown, it is understood that the alternatives and modifications,
such as those suggested and others, may be made thereto and fall within the
scope of the invention.

                                                   11
CLAIMS
1.     A process comprising:
         pumping a first volume of fracturing fluid through at least a portion of tubing positioned
in a subterranean well bore at a velocity sufficient to deform at least one packer that is carried on
said tubing into sealing engagement with the well bore; and thereafter,
         pumping said first volume of fracturing fluid at a pressure sufficient to fracture a
subterranean environs.
2.     The process of claim 1, wherein said first volume of fracturing fluid is pumped through a
first port in said tubing and said first volume of fracturing fluid is directed into said subterranean
environs adjacent said first port.
3.     The process of claim 2, wherein two packers are carried on said tubing and said first port is
positioned between said two packers.
4.     The process of claim 2, further comprising:
         closing said first port;
         pumping a second volume of fracturing fluid through at least a portion of tubing
positioned in a subterranean well bore at a velocity sufficient to deform at least one packer that is
carried on said tubing into sealing engagement with the well bore; and thereafter,
         pumping said fracturing fluid at a pressure sufficient to fracture a subterranean environs.
5.     The process of claim 4, wherein said first volume of fracturing fluid is pumped through a
second port in said tubing and said first volume of fracturing fluid is directed into said
subterranean environs adjacent said second port.
6.     The process of claim 5, wherein two packers are carried on said tubing and said second
port is positioned between said two packers.
7.     The process according to claim 1, further comprising:
         pumping a stimulation fluid through a liner positioned in an open hole of the
subterranean well, wherein each packer that is positioned on the exterior of said liner is not set
until substantially all movement of said liner due to a change in temperature and pressure has
occurred.

                                                   12
8.     The process of claim 7, wherein said open hole is substantially horizontal.
9.     The process of claim 1, wherein said well bore has a generally horizontal configuration
through said subterranean environs.
10.    The process of claim 9, wherein the well bore is provided with intermediate casing secured
to the well, wherein the intermediate casing extends from the surface to a point near to the
subterranean environs and thereby provides an openhole completion through at least a portion of
the subterranean environs.
11.    The process of claim 1, wherein the well bore is cased at least partially through the
subterranean environs.
12.   A process comprising:
        actuating at least one packer into sealing engagement with a subterranean well bore
adjacent to a first opened port in a tubular positioned in said subterranean well bore, said tubular
having a plurality of closed ports and packers adjacent to each of said plurality of closed ports
which are not actuated.
13.    The process of claim 12, further comprising:
        actuating at least one second packer into sealing engagement with said subterranean well
bore adjacent a second opened port in a tubular positioned in said subterranean well bore.
14.   A process comprising:
        pumping a stimulation fluid through a liner positioned in an open hole of a subterranean
well, wherein each packer that is positioned on the exterior of said liner is not set until
substantially all movement of said liner due to a change in temperature and pressure has
occurred.
15.    The process of claim 14, wherein said open hole is substantially horizontal.
                             Weatherford Technology Holdings, LLC
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
