                                        ABSTRACT
   The present invention provides an aqueous solution evaporative treatment method
   that    makes it possible to efficiently    perform   evaporative  treatment   of a
 5 silica-containing aqueous solution.   The aqueous solution evaporative treatment
   method comprises a seed crystal mixing step of adding to and mixing with a
   silica-containing aqueous solution a silicate as seed crystals and an evaporative
   concentration step of evaporatively concentrating the aqueous solution together with
   the seed crystals.   The silicate is preferably magnesium silicate and/or calcium
10 silicate.
                                            10
    (8701548 1) :RTK

                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
    2014202849, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   [0001]      1. Field of the Invention
             The present invention relates to an evaporative treatment method for
   an aqueous solution, and more specifically, relates to an aqueous solution
   evaporative treatment method in which a silica-containing aqueous solution is
   evaporated by indirect heating.
   [0002]     2. Description of the Related Art
10           When evaporating an aqueous solution containing impurities such as
   silica by indirect heating, scale builds up on the heat transfer surface of a heat
   exchanger, and the heat transfer coefficient is likely to deteriorate.   Accordingly,
   to date, measures to address this phenomenon have been investigated.         For
   example, Patent Document 1 discloses a waste water treatment method in
   which sodium carbonate is added to waste water containing calcium and sulfate
   to precipitate the calcium contained in the waste water as crystals of calcium
   carbonate, and then the waste water is concentrated through boiling/evaporation
   by indirect heating.
   [0003]     Patent Document 1: JP-A2006-305541
20
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0004]      Although the aforementioned waste water treatment method is effective
   when the impurity contained in waste water is calcium, there is still a concern
   that scale buildup on the heat transfer surface becomes problematic in the
25 case of an aqueous solution containing a large amount of silica.                 As a
   conventional silica removal method, a so-called hot-lime process is known in
   which magnesium oxide or magnesium carbonate is added to an aqueous
   silica solution, and then silica is precipitated by increasing the temperature to
   about 90 0 C to reduce the silica concentration.         However, with the hot-lime
30 process, not only is the consumption of chemicals, heating energy, and the like
   for precipitation of silica increased, but also separate treatment of the
                                                1
   (8701548 _1)  :RTK

   generated precipitate sludge is required, thus resulting in an increase of treatment
   cost.
    [0005]   Therefore, an object of the present invention is to provide an aqueous solution
   evaporative treatment method that makes it possible to efficiently perform evaporative
 5 treatment of a silica-containing aqueous solution.
    [0006]   The foregoing object of the present invention is achieved by an evaporative
   treatment method for an aqueous solution, comprising a seed crystal mixing step of
   adding to and mixing with a silica-containing aqueous solution a silicate as seed
   crystals, and an evaporative concentration step of evaporatively concentrating the
10 aqueous solution together with the seed crystals.
    [0007]   It is preferable that in this evaporative treatment method for an aqueous
   solution, the silicate is magnesium silicate and/or calcium silicate.
    [0008]   Moreover, it is preferable that in the seed crystal mixing step, the aqueous
   solution before adding the seed crystals comprises silica in a concentration of 50 ppm or
15 higher, and magnesium and calcium each in a concentration of 10 ppm or lower.
    [0009]   Moreover, it is preferable that the seed crystals contained in a concentrated
   liquid produced in the evaporative concentration step are used in the next seed crystal
   mixing step.
    [0010]   According to the present invention, an aqueous solution evaporative treatment
20 method that makes it possible to efficiently perform evaporative treatment of a
   silica-containing aqueous solution can be provided.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
25  [0011]   FIG. 1 is a schematic configurational diagram of an evaporative treatment
   apparatus used for an aqueous solution evaporative treatment method according to
   one embodiment of the present invention.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
30
    [0012]   Below, one embodiment of the present invention will now be described with
                                                2
    (8701548 1) :RTK

   reference to the attached drawings.    FIG. 1 is a schematic configurational diagram of
   an evaporative treatment apparatus used for an aqueous solution evaporative
   treatment method according to one embodiment of the present invention. As shown
   in FIG. 1, an evaporative treatment apparatus 1 includes a reservoir tank 10 in which
 5 an aqueous solution to be treated is stored and an evaporative concentration device 20
   to which the aqueous solution is supplied from the reservoir tank 10.
    [0013] The reservoir tank 10 includes a stirrer 12, and an aqueous solution supplied
   from an aqueous solution supply line 13 and seed crystals supplied from a seed crystal
   tank 14 by the operation of an injection pump 15 are uniformly mixed inside the
10 reservoir tank 10.
    [0014] The evaporative concentration device 20 is a falling film type in which the fluid
   evaporates on the outer surface of a tube, and includes a heat exchanger 21 that has
   heat exchanger tubes 21a horizontally positioned in an evaporator 20a and a spraying
   nozzle 23 that sprays an aqueous solution onto the surface of the heat exchanger tubes
15 21a. Steam produced in the evaporator 20a is compressed by a compressor 24 to have
   high temperature and high pressure, introduced into the heat exchanger tubes 21a to
   be used for heating the aqueous solution, and then discharged as condensed water
   from a condensed liquid discharge tube 25. The aqueous solution stored in the bottom
   of the evaporator 20a is repeatedly sprayed from the spraying nozzle 23 by the
20 operation of a circulating pump 22.      The concentrated liquid concentrated in the
   evaporator 20a is introduced into a solid-liquid separator 30 by the operation of a
   switching valve 26, and seed crystals are thus separated and discharged to the outside.
   The separated seed crystals are returned to the seed crystal tank 14 and reused. The
   solid-liquid separator 30 can be, for example, a centrifugation type, a filter type, or a
25 sedimentation type, or may be a combination of such types.
    [0015] The configuration of the evaporative concentration device 20 is not particularly
   limited, and, for example, the heat exchanger tubes 21a may be a vertical type instead
   of a horizontal type. Moreover, for the heating medium that travels inside the heat
   exchanger tubes 21a, a separate heating medium may be introduced from outside
30 instead of using a heating medium obtained by mechanical vapor recompression as in
   this embodiment. Also, the evaporative concentration device 20 can be configured to
                                               3
    (8701548 1) :RTK

   be a multiple-stage type by arranging the evaporator 20a as a multi-effect evaporator
   as necessary.
    [0016]    Next, a method for performing evaporative treatment of an aqueous solution
   using the above-described evaporative treatment apparatus 1 will now be described.
 5 Examples of the aqueous solution supplied from the aqueous solution supply line 13 to
   the reservoir tank 10 include, in addition to waste liquids generated in factories and
   similar facilities, contaminated water generated during mining of natural gas such as
   coal seam gas and shale gas, underground hot water used for geothermal power
   generation, and the like.         It is preferable that silica is contained in the aqueous
10 solution to such an extent that buildup of silica scale becomes problematic due to
   evaporative concentration in the evaporative concentration apparatus 20, and, for
   example, the method is effective when the silica concentration in the aqueous solution
   is 50 ppm or higher.         This is because, in evaporative concentration, the aqueous
   solution is usually concentrated about 4 to 10 fold, and, therefore, even when the silica
15 concentration is 50 ppm, the concentration reaches 200 to 500 ppm in the evaporative
   concentration device 20, possibly posing silica scale problems.
    [0017]    Seed crystals accomodated in the seed crystal tank 14 are crystals of a
   silica-containing low-solubility silicate ((xM20ySiO 2) that is a component of the
   aqueous solution, and, for example, seed crystals may be crystals of one or more of
20 magnesium silicate, calcium silicate, calcium magnesium silicate, aluminium silicate,
   calcium aluminum          silicate, and the like.       In particular, magnesium silicate
   (MgO)n-(SiO2)m) and calcium silicate ((CaO)n-(SiO2)m) seed crystals are, as will be
   demonstrated in the working examples described below, suitably usable in applications
   for treating aqueous solutions generated during mining of coal seam gas, shale gas,
25 and the like.      Seed crystals in a particle form are usable as-is, or those in a slurry form
   in which crystals are dispersed in water or the like are usable as well.
    [0018]    In the reservoir tank 10, silicate seed crystals are added to an aqueous solution
   and uniformly stirred, and thus the silicate seed crystals, serving as nuclei, allow silica
   contained in the aqueous solution to undergo crystal growth.              The amount of seed
30 crystals supplied from the seed crystal tank 14 to the reservoir tank 10 is preferably an
   amount sufficient for promoting seed crystal growth without impairing the flowability
                                                    4
    (8701548 _1) :RTK

   of the aqueous solution. In the reservoir tank 10, the pH may be adjusted by suitably
   adding a pH adjuster.
    [0019] When large amounts of further scale components such as magnesium and
   calcium other than silica are contained in the aqueous solution, it is preferable to
 5 suitably select seed crystals so as to allow these components together with silica to
   grow into seed crystals.   That is to say, when the scale components contained in large
   amounts in the aqueous solution are silica and magnesium, it is preferable to select
   magnesium silicate as seed crystals, and when the scale components contained in large
   amounts in the aqueous solution are silica and calcium, it is preferable to select
10 calcium silicate as seed crystals. Concerninig the scale components such calcium and
   magnesium other than silica contained in the aqueous solution, it is possible to
   perform ion exchange treatment using, for example, a weakly acidic cation exchange
   resin, desalting treatment using a reverse osmosis membrane (RO membrane), or the
   like before adding seed crystals in order to reduce these scale components to such an
15 extent that generation of scale does not become problematic.
    [0020] Through various tests, the inventors have confirmed that crystals of simple
   silica grow on silicate seed crystals such as magnesium silicate and calcium silicate.
   That is to say, even when magnesium, calcium, and the like are scarcely present in the
   aqueous solution (for example, 10 ppm or lower), addition of silicate seed crystals to the
20 aqueous solution makes it possible to effectively prevent generation of silica scale on
   the evaporative concentration apparatus 20.
    [0021] Thereafter, opening the supply valve 17 allows the aqueous solution to be
   supplied from the reservoir tank 10 to the evaporative concentration device 20, and
   evaporative concentration of the seed crystal-containing aqueous solution is performed.
25 In the aqueous solution to be supplied to the evaporative concentration device 20, silica,
   which is a scale component, undergoes crystal growth in the reservoir tank 10, with
   seed crystals serving as nuclei. Therefore, even when the concentration of scale
   components is increased due to the evaporative concentration of the aqueous solution
   in the evaporative concentration device 20 and exceeds the scale production threshold,
30 due to the precipitation of scale components with the existing seed crystals serving as
   nuclei, generation of new nuclei is suppressed, and it is thus possible to prevent scale
                                               5
    (8701548 1) :RTK

   buildup on the heat exchanger 21.
    [0022] A concentrated liquid concentrated in the evaporative concentration device 20
   is introduced into the solid-liquid separator 30 due to the operation of the switching
   valve 26.     In the solid-liquid separator 30, seed crystals with a large particle size that
 5 have undergone crystal growth are separated by centrifugation or precipitation in a
   settling tank and, after impurity removal by washing or the like, are supplied to the
   seed crystal tank 14. Therefore, even in the case where large amounts of seed crystals
   are supplied to the reservoir tank 10, most of the seed crystals are recovered and can
   be used for the next seed crystal growth in the reservoir tank 10, and it is thus possible
10 to achieve high economical efficiency.
    [0023] Although it is also possible to continuously supply the aqueous solution from
   the reservoir tank 10 to the evaporative concentration device 20 while the evaporative
   concentration device 20 is in operation, it is preferable to supply the aqueous solution
   in a batch-wise manner in which the aqueous solution is supplied after the
15 concentrated liquid produced in the evaporative concentration device 20 is completely
   discharged to the outside. Moreover, it is preferable that after seed crystals are added
   to the reservoir tank 10, the aqueous solution is stirred and left to stand still until seed
   crystal growth in the reservoir tank 10 terminates, and then supplied to the
   evaporative concentration device 20 to initiate evaporative concentration.        It is
20 thereby possible to promote crystal growth on seed crystals in the evaporative
   concentration device 20, and to more reliably prevent scale buildup on the heat
   exchanger 21 and the like.
    [0024] As a working example, an evaporative treatment apparatus 1 having the
   same configuration as FIG. 1 was used to perform treatment on an aqueous solution
25 composed of simulated liquid coal seam gas having the components shown in Table 1
   below. As seed crystals, magnesium silicate ((MgO)-3(SiO 2)) was used in an amount of
   2 kg/m3 . Seed crystals were added to the aqueous solution in a reservoir tank 10 and
   constantly stirred to thus form a uniform slurry, and the slurry was supplied to an
   evaporative concentration device 20 to perform evaporative concentration.          In the
30 evaporative concentration device 20, 126 heat exchanger tubes 21a each having an
   outer diameter of 19 mm and a length of 460 mm were used. In the evaporative
                                                   6
    (8701548 1) :RTK

   concentration device 20, the evaporation temperature was 72'C, the evaporation
   amount was 10 kg/h, the concentration rate was 11 fold, and the duration of operation
   was 28 days. Then, there was no scale buildup on the heat exchanger tubes 21a, and
   deterioration of heat transfer coefficient was not observed.
 5  [0025] Table 1
       Na           Ca         Mg          Cl          K        HCO3         CO 3     SiO 2
     18,000          5           5       12,000       110     6,000x103     1,900      220
                                                                                      (mg/L)
    [0026] As another working example, evaporative concentration was performed on an
   aqueous solution under the same conditions as in the above-described working
   example except that calcium silicate ((CaO)x-(SiO2)x) was used as seed crystals in an
10 amount of 2 kg/m3 . Then, even 28 days after the beginning of operation, there was no
   scale buildup on the heat exchanger tubes 21a, and deterioration of heat transfer
   coefficient was not observed.
    [0027]   On the other hand, as a comparative example, evaporative concentration was
   performed on an aqueous solution under the same conditions as in the working
15 examples except that calcium carbonate (CaCO3) was used as seed crystals in an
   amount of 2 kg/m3 . Then, scale buildup on the heat exchanger tubes 21a was
   observed 14 days after the beginning of operation, and the heat transfer coefficient
   decreased to 80% of the value obtained immediately after the beginning of operation.
   It was not possible to remove the built-up scale by acid cleaning alone, and alkali
20 cleaning was necessary, thus suggesting the possibility of silica scale.
    [0028] Moreover, as other comparative examples, concerning the case where calcium
   sulfate (CaSO4 ) was used as seed crystals in an amount of 2 kg/m 3 and the case where
   silicon dioxide (SiO 2) was used as seed crystals in an amount of 2 kg/m 3, evaporative
   concentration was performed on an aqueous solution under the same conditions as in
25 the working examples.        In both cases, scale buildup on the heat exchanger tubes 21a
   was observed 14 days after the beginning of operation, and the heat transfer coefficient
   decreased to 80% of the value obtained immediately after the beginning of operation.
    [0029]   1         Evaporative treatment apparatus
             10        Storage tank
                                                  7
    (8701548 1) :RTK

           14      Seed crystal tank
           20      Evaporative concentration device
           21      Heat exchanger
           21a     Heat exchanger tube
5          30      Solid-liquid separator
                                            8
  (8701548 1) :RTK

   CLAIMS
   1.        An evaporative treatment method for an aqueous solution, comprising:
             a seed crystal mixing step of adding to and mixing with a silica-containing
 5 aqueous solution a silicate as seed crystals, and
             an evaporative concentration step of evaporatively concentrating the aqueous
   solution together with the seed crystals.
   2.        The evaporative treatment method for an aqueous solution according to claim
10 1, wherein the silicate is magnesium silicate and/or calcium silicate.
   3.        The evaporative treatment method for an aqueous solution according to claim
   1, wherein in the seed crystal mixing step, the aqueous solution before adding the seed
   crystals comprises silica in a concentration of 50 ppm or higher and magnesium and
15 calcium each in a concentration of 10 ppm or lower.
   4.        The evaporative treatment method for an aqueous solution according to
   claim 1, wherein the seed crystals contained in a concentrated liquid produced in the
   evaporative concentration step are used in the next seed crystal mixing step.
20
                                     Sasakura Engineering Co., Ltd.
                          Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON& FERGUSON
25
                                                    9
    (8701548 1) :RTK

<removed-date>
              Fig.1
<removed-apn>
                                11
              (8701548_1):RTK

