ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a device for cold therapy using cooling mist. Ice baths and
cryogenic chamber are previously known solutions for cold therapy, but both suffer
from several disadvantages, such as a space requirements. A device for cold therapy
according to the present invention comprises means, such as a nozzle, for producing
mist from liquid provided for the device, which mist stream is sprayed to a surface
area of a treated object in order to cool said treated object, wherein Sauter mean
diameter of the mist is at most 150 tm.

               1/4
          SA/V ratio as function of radius
30000
25000C
20000C
15000C
100000
 5000(
                       R (pm)
             Fig. 1
  104
             Fg4
                  1104
                    1044
       50      14         104              102
             Fig. 5

                                               1
   DEVICE FOR COLD THERAPY
   Technical field
   Generally, the invention relates to a device for cold therapy. More specifically, the
 5 invention relates to a device for cold therapy using cooling mist.
   Background technology
   Cold therapy, such as ice bathing and cryogenic chamber therapy, is commonly
   used, especially in sports, wherein the cold therapy is a training regimen usually
10 following a period of intense exercise. The cold therapy is claimed to prevent inju
   ries and to help the body to recover faster from an intense period of activity. The
   cold therapy is known to influence blood vessels as tightening them and withdraw
   ing blood to the body's core. After the cold therapy, the circulation of blood is sug
   gested to be stimulated and oxygen and nutrient supply to e.g. inflamed and injured
15 areas is claimed to be improved.
   However, ice bathing and cryogenic chamber therapy has to be performed in closely
   monitored circumstances. Staying too long in an ice bath or in a cryogenic chamber
   may cause hypothermia or frostbites, or sudden exposure to extreme cold could
   harm patients with heart problems or asthma and, in a worst case, may even lead to
20 sudden death. In addition, many people experience the ice bath as an unpleasant or
   even a painful event. By exposing the body to ice water can be an overwhelming
   accomplishment for some, even knowing the benefits of the treatment.
   Moreover, even a small basin of ice bath is a heavy construction and needs a lot of
   water. Normally the volume of a basin is 200 L or more. If the ice bath is a perma
25 nent arrangement, the maintenance of the bath requires regular water changing and
   using of chemicals for keeping the water clean, which can be expensive and re
   quires trained maintenance personnel. Used chemicals may also cause health or al
   lergy problems or they can irritate bather's eyes and/or airways. In addition, the ice
   bath needs a cooling system to keep the required temperature, which consumes lot
30 of energy and, thus, increases maintenance expenses.
   Typically, the cold in a cryogenic chamber is produced with nitrogen in a form of
   vapor, which can be a more comfortable experience to a user than ice bathing.

                                               2
   However, a cryogenic chamber needs a lot of room for the chamber itself and its
   equipment, as well as for the surveillance for users in the chamber. Like ice baths,
   using and maintaining the cryogenic equipment require training and personnel.
 5 Summary of the invention
   The purpose of the present invention is to avoid or, at least, reduce disadvantages of
   the prior art solutions described above.
   The object of the invention is achieved with a solution, wherein the cold is directed
   to desired skin areas as a form of a cooling mist.
10 A device for cold therapy according to the present invention is characterized by the
   features of claim 1.
   According to one embodiment, the device for cold therapy in accordance with the
   present invention comprises means, such as a nozzle, for producing mist from liquid
   provided for the device, which mist stream is sprayed to a surface area of a treated
15 object in order to cool said treated object, wherein Sauter mean diameter of the mist
   is at most 150 tm.
   According to another embodiment, the temperature of said liquid is below the nor
   mal human body temperature.
   Yet, according to another embodiment, air stream is provided in connection with
20 mist stream for improving the cooling effect in said surface area.
   According to one embodiment, the device comprises at least one arm comprising at
   least one nozzle, which nozzle is connected to the liquid supply and configured to
   spray mist in a desired direction.
   In one embodiment, the number of the nozzles in the arm is configurable. Yet, in
25 another embodiment, the direction of the mist stream from a nozzle is adjustable.
   These embodiments enable using of the same device to various objects and in a dif
   ferent manner.
   In another embodiment, the device comprises at least two arms, which arms are dis
   posed relative to each other so that mist streams from the nozzles in the arms are

                                               3
   arranged to collide. The collision of the mist streams provides a combined mist
   stream, which directs downwards.
   Yet, in another embodiment, the distance between the arms in the device is adjusta
   ble. The adjustable distance between arms in the device may enable the using of the
 5 device to various purposes and/or in different circumstances. When the distance be
   tween the arms is adjustable, the same device can be used for treating a human, a
   dog and a horse, for example. Furthermore, the same device can be modified for
   treating a part of a body, such as a thigh, bag or a whole body.
   Yet, in another embodiment, the mist stream is adjustable by adjusting the pressure
10 of liquid. In another embodiment, the droplet size of mist is adjustable by adjusting
   the settings of a nozzle.
   In one embodiment, the used liquid is water. This feature is advantageous, because
   water is known to be absolutely safe for human and is usually available, which
   makes the using of the device easy. In many cases, the device just needs to be con
15 nected to a local water distribution system in a bathroom, for example.
   Some preferable embodiments of the invention are described in the dependent
   claims.
   Significant advantages can be achieved with the present invention when compared
   to the prior known solutions. The present invention is lightweight, easy to assemble
20 and to use. Comparing to an ice bath, it does not need any water changing or may
   not require other maintenance procedures. Unlike a cryogenic chamber and an ice
   bath, the device for cold therapy according to the present invention may be imple
   mented without heavy, solid structures and it may be configured to be collapsible,
   so it can be carried with and used wherever a water supply is available. In addition,
25 it can also comprise its own water reservoir for providing liquid for the device. Fur
   thermore, the device may diminish water consumption, because the cooling mist can
   be produced by using only a fraction of the water amount used for ice bathing, for
   example.
   Because the present invention is hygienic and may be implemented without chemi
30 cals, the cold therapy according to the present invention may not cause any prob
   lems with health or allergies. This feature may also spare money and time, because
   chemicals can be expensive and using them requires time and training.

                                              4
   The adjustment and modification possibilities of the present invention may enable
   the invention to be applied for several objects and skin areas, such as a human body,
   animals, e.g. greyhounds and other dogs, race horses, etc., to a whole body usually
   the head excluded, single muscle or muscle group, such as thigh muscles, back
 5 muscles, arm muscles, etc. just to name a few.
   To list some advantages of the cold therapy according to the present invention, the
   cold therapy may facilitate a healing process in an injured muscle or joint, and over
   all enhance the recovery process. In addition, the cold therapy may alleviate a pain
   and reduce inflammation and swelling in a body. The device according to the pre
10 sent invention may be used for pain treatment, which pain can be caused by an ill
   ness or an accident, for example.
   Using of the device is easy and a person as well as an animal user may experience
   that cooling mist is more pleasant than a traditional ice bath. Moreover, cooling
   mist may not be painful for users and harmful for their health and cooling mist may
15 not cause hypothermia or any frostbite to the user.
   The cold therapy performed by using the present invention may also have another
   objective, such as a treatment for rheumatism, especially atrophic arthritis, fibrom
   yalgia, osteoarthritis and depression to name a few.
   Furthermore, the benefits of the cold therapy according to the present invention may
20 comprise mental calming of the treated object, altogether, and hormonal effects,
   such as secretion of corticotropin, beta-endorphins, cortisol, endogenous opioids,
   norepinephrine, and other agonists of alpha adrenergic receptors. These hormonal
   effects are known to have positive benefits in many ways.
   The other known benefits of the cold therapy may be, for example, the formation of
25 brown fat cells in a treated body, which may be advantageous in many ways; brown
   fat cells may, for example, ease weight loss, improve the adjustment to cold weather
   and enhance stress tolerance. Recently researched hormone irisin may have a role,
   when a body converts white fat cells to brown fat cells, and, thus, replicating posi
   tive effects of exercise and diet. Additional advantage of the cold therapy according
30 to the present invention may be the production of hormone irisin in the body.
   In addition to the above mentioned solutions for using the device according to the
   present invention for healing and preventing injuries, treatment and alleviation for
   various illnesses and symptoms, hormonal therapy as well as producing brown fat
   cells, the device may be used as a first aid in burn injuries or for cooling down a

                                               5
   body having too high body temperature, for example. The device is sufficiently
   small and lightweight to be included in first aid equipment, e.g. of ambulance, and it
   may be suitable for instant cooling of the burned skin area and tissues. In case of the
   burn injuries, the scalability of the device may be usable, when e.g. paramedics
 5 need to use it for various kinds of burns. The device may be easy to modify for pre
   sent needs.
   The expression "surface of the treated object" in this document refers herein to a
   skin or other outer covering of the body of a person or animal, which is treated with
   the device.
10
   Short description of the drawings
   Next, the invention is described in more detail with reference to the appended draw
   ings, in which
   Fig. 1      is a surface area to volume ratio as function of a radius of a droplet;
15 Fig. 2      depicts a perspective view of an exemplary device according to an em
   bodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 3      depicts a side view of an exemplary device according to an embodiment
   of the present invention;
   Fig 4       depicts a top view of an exemplary device according to an embodiment
20 of the present invention;
   Fig. 5      depicts another exemplary device according to an embodiment of the
   present invention.
   Same reference numerals are used in different figures to denote similar elements.
25 Detailed description of the embodiments
   According to an embodiment of the present invention a device for cold therapy
   comprises means, such as a nozzle, for producing mist from liquid provided for the
   device. Mist stream is sprayed to a surface area of a treated object in order to cool
   said treated object.

                                               6
   The cooling effect of mist in the present invention is based on the high enthalpy of
   vaporization of liquid, such as water. As can be seen in Fig. 1, fine mist, comprising
   a lot of small droplets, forms a large evaporation surface, which causes an efficient
   evaporation. Evaporation process requires energy (r=2256 kJ/kg), which is taken
 5 from heat of the surrounding air and the treated object. Due to the heat loss the
   treated object cools down.
   The right droplet size of mist is essential in the present invention. Normally, Sauter
   mean diameter (SMD) is used to represent an average particle size in fluid dynam
   ics. SMD is typically defined in terms of the surface diameter, ds, and the volume
10 diameter, d,, as following
     SMD =      .
   In this paper, SMD of mist is preferably about 15 [tm - 150 [tm, more preferably
   about 30 [tm- 100 [tm, and most preferably about 50 [tm -80 ptm. Mist having a
   greater SMD will not evaporate as well, because the area/volume ratio of a droplet
15 decreases exponentially, when the radius of droplets increases, and the result will be
   more like normal shower with water drops without a sufficient evaporation effect.
   In that case, when using liquid having a sufficient low temperature, that shower can
   cool the treated object, but it can be very unpleasant experience and is based on
   cooling effect of cold water instead of evaporation of mist.
20 In addition, the number of the droplets applied to a skin area of the treated object
   affect to the cooling of the treated object. The number of the droplets highly de
   pends on the size of the area and cannot be exactly defined. Advantageously, the
   treated area should be at least twice covered with droplets for achieving satisfactory
   cooling effect, but the person skilled in the art will understand that more mist drop
25 lets can also be used for cold therapy.
   The temperature of the used liquid also affects to the cooling effect of mist. De
   pending on embodiment, the temperature of the used liquid can vary widely, for ex
   ample between 00 C - 55 'C, but preferably the temperature of the used liquid is be
   low the normal human body temperature. In embodiments, wherein the treatment is
30 directed to an animal, for example, the temperature of the used liquid is preferably
   selected to be under the normal body temperature of the treated animal in question.

                                               7
   In one embodiment, cold tab water is used as liquid in the present device. The tem
   perature of cold tap water can vary, but preferably it is below 15'C, and, when alter
   ing water to mist, it may cool even more.
   The device of the present invention can further comprise separate cooling means,
 5 such as carbon dioxide i.e. "dry ice", for cooling the used liquid, especially in sum
   mer. The other cooling means may also be used, but, preferably, cold tap water is
   adequate for cold therapy with the present device. When using a separate cooling
   means for cooling the used liquid, the liquid is preferably cooled before it is fed the
   hose system of the device. In another embodiment, the cooling and/or heating sys
10 tem is arranged in the hose system, e.g. between hose branches. This enables the use
   of the device for alternating treatment in such way that the water for the device is
   provided from the local water distribution system and heated/cooled to a desired
   temperature before alternating it to mist stream.
   In another embodiment, the temperature of the used liquid is about 15 C or more. In
15 this embodiment, it is advantageous to control humidity of the space the device is
   used in. If relative humidity rises too high level, it substantially impairs the evapo
   ration process of mist. Typically, humidity is controlled by arranging sufficient air
   ventilation in the space. As the person skilled in the art will understand, the air ven
   tilation can also be arranged in connection with other embodiments.
20 In one embodiment, the used water supply is a local water distribution system and
   the water is directed to the hose system of the device with a normal pressure used in
   the water distribution system, typically e.g. about 3-4 bar. However, liquid having a
   higher pressure can also be used and it may be advantageous for producing mist
   having suitable droplet size. In that case, the pressure can be e.g. about 7 bar. If the
25 local water distribution system does not provide a sufficient pressure, an additional
   pressure raising means can be used in connection with the device. The higher pres
   sure is more efficient, because the required number of the droplets for the treated
   skin area is fulfilled faster.
   The pressure of the liquid may also be adjustable in order to adjust the mist stream.
30 In one embodiment, the device comprises means, such as pressurized air, for adjust
   ing the pressure of the liquid used in the device.
   In another embodiment, liquid, some other than water, is used for producing mist.
   The used liquid can be e.g., but not limited to, oil, milk, ethanol, lotion or water
   with nurturing ingredients, such as essential oils, perfumes, etc.

                                               8
   In another embodiment, the device is arranged to operate by using a separate water
   reservoir, such as a water canister, for example. In this case, the pressure in the hose
   system is arranged in some other manner, such as using separate pressurizing
   means, e.g. pressurized water canister or compressed air system. Normally, the sep
 5 arate water reservoir is sized for the use e.g. 40-50 L/h, and, the using time typically
   being e.g. 15 -30 min, e.g. 25 L water canister can be adequate for one treatment,
   for example.
   In an embodiment, air stream is provided in connection with mist stream. This fea
   ture can be implemented in various ways, but in one embodiment, both mist stream
10 and air stream is provided in the same nozzle. In one embodiment, one or more used
   nozzles in the device are cone nozzles spraying mist stream in an angle, e.g. about
   80 degrees, in a form of cone and spraying air stream in the middle of the nozzle.
   The person skilled in the art will understand that air stream can also be provided
   some other way, such as dedicating one or more nozzles to air stream and others to
15 mist stream, for example. The evaporation effect can further be improved by arrang
   ing a drainage system to the floor of the space, where the device is used. If waste
   water is removed, it does not evaporate to air and raise the humidity level.
   An applying time of mist stream can vary depending on the size of the treated area
   and the meaning of the usage, but typically the device is used a couple of minutes,
20 such as about 2 to 5 minutes, but the device can be used a longer time, especially if
   a larger surface area is about to be treated. The temperature of the surface of the
   treated object is intended to decrease several Celsius degrees, such as about 15'C
   26'C. For example, when a human is treated, the surface temperature of the treated
   area can be about 11 C after the treatment.
25 Next, components and function of an exemplary device for cold therapy according
   to the present invention is discussed with reference to Figs. 2-4.
   An exemplary configuration of the device 100 for cold therapy comprises at least
   one arm 102, which arm 102 comprises at least one nozzle 104, which nozzle can be
   aimable. The nozzle 104 is connected to a liquid supply (not shown) and configured
30 to spray mist in a desired direction.
   In an exemplary configuration of the device according to the present invention pre
   sented in Figs. 2-4, the device 100 comprises six arms 102 arranged in a circle or in
   an oval form. The person skilled in the art will understand that the arms of the de
   vice can be arranged in some other appropriate form than above mentioned shapes.

                                              9
   Depending on embodiment, the arms can be in a semicircular form or in a line, for
   example. In one additional embodiment, the arms are arranged to be detachable
   from the base structure, so that the arm can be used as a hand held device.
   In a preferred embodiment, the number of arms is e.g. 4-6, but, depending on em
 5 bodiment, the number of arms may be more or less. The device can be configured,
   so that the number and the position of arms can be changed, when the usage of the
   device changes.
   Preferably, the arms are made from a durable, but lightweight material, such as
   aluminum, stainless steel or some other suitable material. The arms advantageously
10 comprise means for attaching nozzles to the arm, such as clamps or some other suit
   able fasteners. Nozzles may also be fastened to an arm some other way, such as by
   using fast coupling means.
   In some other embodiment, the nozzles comprise means for shutting and opening
   them, which enables the configuration of the number of used nozzles to be changed
15 without detaching or attaching nozzles in the arm.
   In Figs. 2-4, each arm comprises four nozzles 104 aimed to spray mist stream to the
   centre of the circle. It should be obvious to the person skilled in the art that the
   number or the position of the nozzles in an arm or in the device can be changed
   freely depending on the use of the device. As well, in one embodiment, the arms
20 have a telescopic structure, which enables the arms to be lengthened and/or short
   ened, when more or less nozzles are needed or when the position of a noz
   zle/nozzles is/are changed.
   The nozzles 104 can be any appropriate nozzle for producing mist. In a preferable
   embodiment, the nozzles are adjustable so that the droplet size produced by the
25 nozzle is changeable.
   Typically, the nozzles 104 in the arms are arranged in different levels, so that object
   to be treated is sprayed with mist streams in several levels. If the object to be treated
   is a human, the nozzles are typically adjusted so that mist covers the person's whole
   body leaving the head out. It is characteristic for the mist stream that the stream
30 turns downwards when hitting a solid object, such as a treated body, or when collid
   ed with another mist stream, in which case the streams combine and the combined
   stream turns downwards.

                                              10
   In one embodiment, the levels of the nozzles 104 in the arms 102 is selected so that
   the nozzles 104 in different arms 102 are disposed substantially in the same level. In
   that case, two or more mist streams can be arranged to collide so as to form a com
   bined downwardly directed stream. By using this feature a larger mist stream can be
 5 provided in order to treat a part of the body, a lying person and/or an animal, for
   example.
   In the exemplary device presented in Figs. 2-4, the arms are further connected to
   foot parts 106 forming a base frame 108, which is intended to keep the device 100
   in a substantially upright position. The position of the arms can be some other than
10 upright, e.g. an angle with the ground level. The base frame is advantageously ar
   ranged to lie on the floor, which provides the needed support to the arms used in the
   upright position. In addition, two side braces 110 are connected between foot parts
    106 in order to improve the support provided by the base frame 108.
   In addition, the foot parts 106 of the base frame 108 may further be connected to a
15 centre part 112, which can define a treatment area for treated person to stand. The
   centre part can further prevent or at least reduce water leakage from the treatment
   area. In some embodiment, a sensor or sensors are provided to centre part for ob
   serving the water temperature, for example. It should be obvious to the person
   skilled in the art that the device according to the present invention can be imple
20 mented without the centre part and the centre part can be an auxiliary or additional
   component in the device.
   Like the arms, the base frame and the components thereof are made from a durable,
   but lightweight material, such as aluminum, stainless steel or some other suitable
   material. The foot parts 106 can comprise e.g. a groove for adjusting the position
25 and distance between the arms. In addition, the foot parts can comprises means for
   fastening the arms to the base frame. However, the person skilled in the art under
   stands that the device can also be implemented without a base frame or any other
   support part. In some embodiments, the device is configured so as to be held in a
   hand, for example.
30 The nozzles are further connected to a water supply. Preferably, water is provided to
   the nozzles via a hose system 114, which, typically, comprises connecting means
    120 suitable for to be connected a local water distributing system. The water can be
   provided to each arm with a larger hose 118, which is used to connect the hose
   branch 116 or hoses between the arms 102. In some embodiments, the hose system
35  114 is integrated to the arms 102 and/or the base frame 108. In that case, a nozzle

                                              11
   may be possible to add or remove from an arm without any arrangement in the hose
   system. In another embodiment, each nozzle is connected to a hose or a hose branch
    116 and hoses or the hose branch 116 can be fastened to the arm or just the nozzles
   are fastened and the hoses/hose branch are left to hang freely.
 5 In some auxiliary or additional embodiment, the device also comprises heating
   means. Usually, in that case, the device is used for altering treatment by alternately
   using cold mist and hot mist. In that case, one water type or both water types can be
   provided for the device from a separate reservoir/ reservoirs. Separate reservoir can
   be advantageous, because hot water can be heated to a desired temperature and pro
10 vided from the separate reservoir to the device. In some embodiments suitable for
   altering treatment, some nozzles can be dedicated to hot water and the others to cold
   water.
   In some embodiment, the device further comprises one or more tempera
   ture/pressure sensors for monitoring and/or ensuring the temperature and/or the
15 pressure of the used liquid.
   Fig. 5 depicts another exemplary device according to an embodiment of the present
   invention. In the present figure, it can be seen how the device according to the pre
   sent invention can be attach to a regular shower arm instead of or in addition to a
   shower head. In the present embodiment, the device comprises a member 502,
20 which can be attached to the shower arm. In this configuration, six nozzles 104 are
   connected to the arm 102 to provide mist stream to both sides of a user.
   Although, the description concerns to using of the present for cold therapy, it is pos
   sible to use the device for washing instead of a traditional shower. Using the device
   for washing requires typically several nozzles, which may be arranged in several
25 levels, e.g. 3-4 levels, or in one level for producing sufficient amount of mist, so
   that the washing procedure is pleasant experience and the water amount is adequate
   for washing and rinsing. The used water temperature can be selected to be higher
   than the used water temperature for cold therapy. The easiest way to provide warm
   er water for the device is to connect the hose system to a warm water supply. As
30 described above, the water heating system can also be used for heating the water for
   washing.
   The configuration of the device, i.e. the number and the location of the nozzles, as
   well as droplet size of the mist, the number of the arms, the base frame construction
   are selected so that the use of the device is kept in mind. The aim is to produce a

                                               12
   thick mist stream(s) suitable for the present purpose, e.g. treating a part of the body,
   the whole body or various objects in various dimensions. However, it is not desired
   to produce mist streams that are not needed in that time, because that is a waste of
   water. Therefore the device of the present invention is usually enabled to be adjust
 5 ed in different ways within the scope of the invention, as described above.
   The scope of the invention is determined by the attached claims together with the
   equivalents thereof. The skilled persons will again appreciate the fact that the ex
   plicitly disclosed embodiments were constructed for illustrative purposes only, and
   the scope will cover further embodiments, embodiment combinations and equiva
10 lents that better suit each particular use case of the invention.
   In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar
   terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method or
   apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely,
   but may well include other elements not listed.
15 The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
   an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge.

                                            13
CLAIMS
 1.      A device for cold therapy comprising means, such as a nozzle, for producing
mist from liquid provided for the device, which mist stream is sprayed, to a surface
area of a skin of a treated object in order to cool said skin of the treated object, from
said nozzle, wherein Sauter mean diameter of the mist is at most 150 [im, and mist
stream is provided in connection with air stream for improving the cooling effect in
said skin area,
wherein the device for cold therapy comprises at least one such arm whose direc
tion is adjustable, said arm comprising at least one nozzle, which nozzle is said noz
zle connectable to the liquid supply and configured to spray mist in a desired direc
tion.
2.       A device for cold therapy according to claim 1, wherein the temperature of
said liquid is below the normal human body temperature.
3.       A device for cold therapy according to claim,      wherein the number of the
nozzles in the arm is configurable.
4.       A device for cold therapy according to any preceding claim, wherein the di
rection of the mist stream from the nozzle is adjustable.
5.       A device for cold therapy according to any preceding claim, wherein the
temperature of mist is adjustable by adjusting the temperature of liquid.
6.       A device for cold therapy according to claim 5, wherein the liquid is further
cooled with an additional cooling means.
7. A device for cold therapy according to any preceding claim, wherein mist stream
     is adjustable by adjusting the supply pressure of liquid.
8. A device for cold therapy according to any preceding claim, wherein the used
     liquid is water.
3545715v1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
