                                                         ABSTRACT
                      A portable-electronic-device-implemented method for facilitating programming
            of a smart-card terminal, wherein a portable electronic device has a communication
            interface and a user interface, the method comprising:
                       coupling the portable electronic device to the smart-card terminal;
                       receiving account information associated with the smart-card terminal from a
            merchant via the user interface;
                      providing the account information to a computer remotely located relative to the
           portable electronic device using the communication interface;
                       receiving, from the computer using the communication interface, a merchant
            identifier and a terminal identifier;
                      providing the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to the smart-card
            terminal, thereby facilitating programming of the smart-card terminal;
                       wherein, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the method further
            comprises:
                       receiving, from the computer using the communication interface, a smart-card
            terminal configuration file which includes information specific to a financial institution
            associated with the smart-card terminal; and
           programming the smart-card terminal using the smart-card-terminal configuration file
            via the portable electronic device to enable the merchant to use the smart-card
            terminal for conducting a financial transaction.
C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683 1.docx - 12/6/18

                                                                  - 100
 COUPLE A PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE TO A SMART-CARD TERMINAL
                                110
  RECEIVE ACCOUNT INFORMATION ASSOCIATED WITH THE SMART-CARD
                    TERMINAL FROM A MERCHANT
                                112
    PROVIDE THE ACCOUNT INFORMATION TO A COMPUTER REMOTELY
       LOCATED RELATIVE TO THE PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE
                                114
RECEIVE, FROM THE COMPUTER, A MERCHANT IDENTIFIER AND A TERMINAL
                            IDENTIFIER
                                116
        RECEIVE, FROM THE COMPUTER, A SMART-CARD-TERMINAL
                        CONFIGURATION FILE
                            (OPTIONAL)
                                118
   PROVIDE THE SMART-CARD-TERMINAL CONFIGURATION FILE TO THE
                       SMART-CARD TERMINAL
                            (OPTIONAL)
                                120
 PROVIDE THE MERCHANT IDENTIFIER AND THE TERMINAL IDENTIFIER TO
                     THE SMART-CARD TERMINAL
                                122
                                                                 FIG. 1

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06/2018
                               REMOTE CONFIGURATION OF EMV TERMINALS
[001]           This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012368248, the originally
filed specification of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
[002]           The present disclosure relates to techniques for programming smart-card terminals.
More specifically, the present disclosure relates to a technique that facilitates remote
programming of a Europay MasterCard Visa (EMV) terminal using a portable electronic
device.
                                                           BACKGROUND
[003]           Many financial transactions are conducted using smart-card terminals, such as an EMV
terminal in which consumers conduct a financial transaction using a smart card that includes a
chip that contains financial information and also by providing a personal identification number
(PIN). Typically EMV terminals are configured by a manufacturer or a distributor.
[004]           However, this configuration approach is cumbersome and inflexible. In particular, this
configuration approach obstructs other channels, such as: sales of smart-card terminals in
retails stores, giving away smart-card terminals at trade shows, etc. As a consequence, it is
often difficult or expensive to provide EMV terminals to smaller merchants.
[005]           It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more disadvantages or limitations
associated with the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
                                                             SUMMARY
[006]          According to the present invention there is provided a portable-electronic-device
implemented method for facilitating programming of a smart-card terminal, wherein a portable
electronic device has a communication interface and a user interface, the method comprising:
                coupling the portable electronic device to the smart-card terminal;
               receiving account information associated with the smart-card terminal from a merchant
via the user interface;
               providing the account information to a computer remotely located relative to the

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                           -2
portable electronic device using the communication interface;
                receiving, from the computer using the communication interface, a merchant identifier
and a terminal identifier;
               providing the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to the smart-card terminal,
thereby facilitating programming of the smart-card terminal;
                wherein, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the method further
comprises:
                receiving, from the computer using the communication interface, a smart-card-terminal
configuration file which includes information specific to a financial institution associated with
the smart-card terminal; and
               programming the smart-card terminal using the smart-card-terminal configuration file
via the portable electronic device to enable the merchant to use the smart-card terminal for
conducting a financial transaction.
[007]           The invention also provides a portable electronic device, comprising:
                a processor;
                a user interface;
                a communication interface;
                memory; and
                a program module, wherein the program module is stored in the memory and
configurable to be executed by the processor to facilitate programming of a smart-card
terminal which is coupled to the portable electronic device, the program module including:
                             instructions for receiving account information associated with the smart-card
terminal from a merchant via the user interface;
                             instructions for providing the account information to a computer remotely
located relative to the portable electronic device using the communication interface;
                             instructions for receiving, from the computer using the communication
interface, a merchant identifier and a terminal identifier; and
                             instructions for providing the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to
the smart-card terminal, thereby facilitating programming of the smart-card terminal;
                wherein, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the program module
further includes:

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06/2018
                                                                  -3
                             instructions for receiving, from the computer using the communication
interface, a smart-card-terminal configuration file which includes information specific to a
financial institution associated with the smart-card terminal; and
                             instructions for programming the smart-card terminal using the smart-card
terminal configuration file via the portable electronic device to enable the merchant to use the
smart-card terminal for conducting a financial transaction.
                                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[008]           Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereinafter further described, by
way of non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[009]          FIG. 1 is a flow chart illustrating a method for facilitating programming of a smart
card terminal in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[010]           FIG. 2 is a flow chart illustrating the method of FIG. 1 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present disclosure.
[011]           FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating a system that performs the method of FIGs. 1 and
2 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[012]          FIG. 4 is a block diagram illustrating a portable electronic device that performs the
method of FIGs. 1 and 2 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.
[013]          Note that like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the drawings.
Moreover, multiple instances of the same part are designated by a common prefix separated
from an instance number by a dash.
                                                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[014]           The disclosed embodiments relate to a portable electronic device that facilitates
programming of a smart-card terminal. After the portable electronic device is coupled to the
smart-card terminal, the portable electronic device receives account information associated
with the smart-card terminal from a merchant. In response, the portable electronic device
provides the account information to a computer remotely located relative to the portable
electronic device.                       Then, the portable electronic device receives, from the computer, a
merchant identifier and a terminal identifier. Next, the portable electronic device provides the
merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to the smart-card terminal, thereby facilitating

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                         -4
programming of the smart-card terminal.
 [015]          In some embodiments, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the portable
electronic device receives a smart-card-terminal configuration file which includes information
specific to a financial institution associated with the smart-card terminal. In response, the
portable electronic device provides the smart-card-terminal configuration file to the smart-card
terminal.
[016]          Note that the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier provided to the smart-card
terminal may be encrypted.
[017]          Moreover, the smart-card terminal may include a Europay MasterCard Visa (EMV)
terminal.              In some embodiments, during a financial transaction, the smart-card terminal
receives a user PIN code and financial information stored in a memory on a smart card.
[018]          Additionally, the portable electronic device may provide an electronic identity for the
smart-card terminal to the computer until the programming of the smart-card terminal is
completed.
[019]          Note that the smart-card terminal may be reprogrammed via the portable electronic
device when additional account information is received. This additional account information
may be associated with one of the merchant and another merchant.
 [020]         Another embodiment provides a method that includes at least some of the operations
performed by the portable electronic device.
[021]          Another embodiment provides a computer-program product for use with the portable
electronic device. This computer-program product includes instructions for at least some of
the operations performed by the portable electronic device.
 [022]          Embodiments of a portable electronic device, a technique for facilitating programming
of a smart-card terminal, and a computer-program product (e.g., software) for use with the
portable electronic device are described.                 During this device programming technique, a
merchant provides account information associated with a smart-card terminal to a portable
electronic device (such as a cellular telephone), which is coupled to the smart-card terminal.
In response, the portable electronic device provides the account information to a computer
remotely located relative to the portable electronic device. Then, the computer provides a
merchant identifier and a terminal identifier to the portable electronic device. Next, the
portable electronic device provides the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to the

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                         -5
smart-card terminal, thereby facilitating programming of the smart-card terminal.
[023]           By facilitating programming of a smart-card terminal, the device programming
technique may eliminate the need for inflexible configuration of the smart-card terminal by a
manufacturer or a distributer. In fact, the device programming technique may eliminate the
need for pre-configuring of the smart-card terminal by a distributer. Instead, the smart-card
terminal may be remotely programmed, as needed, via the portable electronic device. As a
consequence, the device programming technique may expand the use of smart-card terminals
by smaller merchants and, thus, may promote commercial activity.
[024]           In the discussion that follows, a user may include: an individual (for example, an
existing customer, a new customer, a service provider, a vendor, a contractor, etc.), an
organization, a business (such as a merchant) and/or a government agency. Furthermore, a
' business' should be understood to include: foprofit corporations, non-profit corporations,
organizations, groups of individuals, sole proprietorships, government agencies, partnerships,
etc.
[025]           We now describe embodiments of the device programming technique, which may be
performed by a system (such as system 300 in FIG. 3) and/or a portable electronic device
(such as portable electronic device 400 in FIG. 4) in this system. FIG. 1 presents a flow chart
illustrating a method 100 for facilitating programming of a smart-card terminal. During
operation, the portable electronic device is coupled to the smart-card terminal (operation 110).
For example, the smart-card terminal may include a Europay MasterCard Visa (EMV)
terminal. Moreover, in some embodiments, during a financial transaction, the smart-card
terminal receives a user PIN code and financial information stored in a memory on a smart
card.
[026]          After the portable electronic device is coupled to the smart-card terminal (operation
110), the portable electronic device receives account information associated with the smart
card terminal from a merchant (operation 112). In response, the portable electronic device
provides the account information to a computer remotely located relative to the portable
electronic device (operation 114). Then, the portable electronic device receives, from the
computer, a merchant identifier and a terminal identifier (operation 116). Note that the
merchant identifier and the terminal identifier provided to the smart-card terminal may be
encrypted.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                                    -6
 [027]         Next, the portable electronic device provides the merchant identifier and the terminal
identifier to the smart-card terminal (operation 122), thereby facilitating programming of the
smart-card terminal.
[028]          In some embodiments, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the portable
electronic device optionally receives, from the computer, a smart-card-terminal configuration
file (operation 118) which includes information specific to a financial institution associated
with the smart-card terminal. In response, the portable electronic device optionally provides
the smart-card-terminal configuration file to the smart-card terminal (operation 120).
[029]          Note that the portable electronic device may provide an electronic identity for the
smart-card terminal to the computer until the programming of the smart-card terminal is
completed. Furthermore, using method 100, the smart-card terminal may be reprogrammed
via the portable electronic device when additional account information is received or
whenever the portable electronic device is decoupled from the smart-card terminal (which may
ensure regulatory compliance). This additional account information may be associated with
one of the merchant and another merchant. Thus, the same merchant may provide the
additional account information (such as account information for a different account) or a
different merchant may provide the additional account information (i.e., different merchants
may be able to use the same smart-card terminal).
[030]          In an exemplary embodiment, the device programming technique is implemented using
a portable electronic device (such as a cellular telephone) and at least one server, which
communicate through a network, such as a cellular-telephone network and/or the Internet (e.g.,
using a client-server architecture). This is illustrated in FIG. 2, which presents a flow chart
illustrating method 100 (FIG. 1).                            During this method, portable electronic device 210 is
coupled (operations 216 and 218) to smart-card terminal 212. Then, portable electronic device
210 receives account information (operation 220) associated with the smart-card terminal from
a user (such as a merchant).                             Moreover, portable electronic device 210 provides account
information (operation 222) to server 214.
[031]          After receiving the account information (operation 224), server 214 provides a
merchant identifier (MID) and a terminal identifier (TID) (operation 226), which are
subsequently received by portable electronic device 210 (operation 228). Next, portable
electronic device 210 provides the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to smart-card

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                         -7
terminal 212 (operation 230), which are subsequently received by smart-card terminal 212
(operation 232). In this way, method 100 can be used to facilitate programming of the smart
card terminal.
 [032]          In some embodiments, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the portable
electronic device 210 receives a smart-card-terminal configuration file which includes
information specific to a financial institution associated with smart-card terminal 212 from
server 214.                This smart-card-terminal configuration file may be provided to smart-card
terminal 212 during operation 228.
[033]          In some embodiments of method 100 (FIGs. 1 and 2), there may be additional or fewer
operations. Moreover, the order of the operations may be changed, and/or two or more
operations may be combined into a single operation.
 [034]          In an exemplary embodiment, the device programming technique is used to facilitate
programming of an EMVterminal. Typically, the hardware in an EMVterminal is configured
by a distributor using: an EMV configuration file, a merchant identifier, and a terminal
identifier. However, the resulting configured EMV terminal usually can only be used by a
particular merchant for the lifetime of the EMVterminal. In the device programing technique,
EMV terminals (and, more generally, smart-card terminals) can be remotely programmed,
which allows the EMV terminals to be exchanged among different merchants. This flexibility
allows new distribution channels, minimizes the requisite supply chain and backend systems,
and reduces the difficulties associated with adding or replacing EMV terminals.
 [035]          In particular, an EMV terminal may be programmed using a cellular telephone. A
merchant may receive a standard EMV terminal. After plugging the EMV terminal into the
cellular telephone, the cellular telephone may act as an intermediary and provide an identity to
the EMVterminal until it is programmed. Then, the merchant may sign in to an account, such
as a financial account with a financial institution that is associated with the EMVterminal. In
response, a server associated with the financial institution may provide: the EMVconfiguration
file (which may be specific for a financial processor associated with a particular financial
institution and the EMV terminal), a merchant identifier, and a terminal identifier. This
information may be provided to the EMV terminal in a secure fashion (for example, using
encrypted communication, such as that used in a Secure Sockets Layer). After receiving the
EMV configuration file, the merchant identifier, and/or the terminal identifier, the EMV

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                              -8
terminal may decrypt this information (using a predefined encryption technique) and pass it to
hardware in the EMV terminal, which then self-configures. In this way, a standard EMV
terminal may be remotely programmed so that it is ready for use.
[036]          Note that when the EMV terminal is unplugged from the cellular telephone, the EMV
configuration file and/or the terminal identifier may remain on the EMV terminal (i.e., it may
be stored on the EMV terminal).                          However, the merchant identifier and/or the terminal
identifier may not remain on the EMV terminal when it is unplugged. Thus, the merchant or
another merchant may subsequently couple another cellular telephone to the EMV terminal
and may still be able to use the EMV terminal. This may allow a new configuration (such as
another merchant identifier and/or another terminal identifier) associated with another account
to be programmed into the EMVterminal. In addition, the capability may ensure that the EMV
terminal is regulatory compliant.
[037]          We now describe embodiments of the system and the portable electronic device, and
their use. FIG. 3 presents a block diagram illustrating a system 300 that performs method 100
(FIGs. 1 and 2). In this system, a user (such as a merchant) of portable electronic device 210
may use a software product, such as a financial software application that is resident on and that
executes on portable electronic device 210. (Alternatively, the user may interact with a web
page that is provided by server 214 via network 312, and which is rendered by a web browser
on portable electronic device 210. For example, at least a portion of the financial software
application may be an application tool that is embedded in the web page, and which executes
in a virtual environment of the web browser. Thus, the application tool may be provided to
the consumer via a client-server architecture.) This financial software application may be a
standalone application or a portion of another application that is resident on and which
executes on portable electronic device 210 (such as a software application that is provided by
server 214 or that is installed and which executes on portable electronic device 210).
[038]          As discussed previously, the user of portable electronic device 210 may receive smart
card terminal 212 (for example, via mail, from a retail store, from a friend, etc.). The user
may plug the smart-card terminal into portable electronic device 210. Then, the user may use
the financial software application to configure smart-card terminal 212.
[039]          In particular, the user may provide account information to server 214 via network 312
using the financial software application. In response, server 214 may provide a configuration

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                         -9
file, a merchant identifier and/or a terminal identifier to the financial software application on
portable electronic device 210 via network 312.
 [040]          The financial software application may use the configuration file, a merchant identifier
and/or a terminal identifier to configure smart-card terminal 212. For example, portable
electronic device 210 may provide, via network 312, the configuration file, a merchant
identifier and/or a terminal identifier to smart-card terminal 212. Then, smart-card terminal
212 may self-initialize. After smart-card terminal 212 is programmed, the user may perform
financial transactions using smart-card terminal 212 and/or portable electronic device 210 with
server 314 (which is associated with a financial institution) via network 312.
[041]          Note that smart-card terminal 212 may store information associated with the
configuration file even after smart-card terminal 212 is no longer coupled to portable
electronic device 210. Alternatively, during a subsequent log-in (i.e., when the account
information is provided), portable electronic device 210 may: detect smart-card terminal 212
(i.e., may detect existing or previously configured hardware), provide the account information
to server 214 via network 312, and receive the terminal identifier, which is then communicated
to smart-card terminal 212.
[042]          Information in system 300 may be stored at one or more locations in system 300 (i.e.,
locally or remotely). Moreover, because this data may be sensitive in nature, it may be
encrypted. For example, stored data and/or data communicated via network 312 (such as the
configuration file, the merchant identifier and/or the terminal identifier) may be encrypted.
[043]          FIG. 4 presents a block diagram illustrating a portable electronic device 400 that
performs method 100 (FIGs. 1 and 2), such as portable electronic device 210 (FIGs. 2 and 3).
Portable electronic device 400 includes one or more processing units or processors 410, a
communication interface 412, a user interface 414, and one or more signal lines 422 coupling
these components together. Note that the one or more processors 410 may support parallel
processing and/or multi-threaded operation, the communication interface 412 may have a
persistent communication connection, and the one or more signal lines 422 may constitute a
communication bus. Moreover, the user interface 414 may include: a display 416, a keyboard
418, and/or a pointer 420, such as a mouse.
[044]          Memory 424 in portable electronic device 400 may include volatile memory and/or
non-volatile memory. More specifically, memory 424 may include: ROM, RAM, EPROM,

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                          - 10
EEPROM,flash memory, one or more smart cards, one or more magnetic disc storage devices,
and/or one or more optical storage devices. Memory 424 may store an operating system 426
that includes procedures (or a set of instructions) for handling various basic system services
for performing hardware-dependent tasks. Memory 424 may also store procedures (or a set of
instructions) in a communication module 428. These communication procedures maybe used
for communicating with one or more computers and/or servers, including computers and/or
servers that are remotely located with respect to portable electronic device 400.
[045]           Memory 424 may also include multiple program modules (or sets of instructions),
including: application module 430 (or a set of instructions), financial application module 432
(or a set of instructions) and/or encryption module 434 (or a set of instructions). Note that one
or more of these program modules (or sets of instructions) may constitute a computer-program
mechanism.
[046]           During method 100 (FIGs. 1 and 2), portable electronic device 400 may be coupled to
smart-card terminal 212 (FIGs. 2 and 3) via communication interface 412. Upon detecting a
smart-card terminal, application module 430 may request account information 436 from a user
(such as a merchant), for example, by displaying instructions on display 416.                     Then,
application module 430 may receive account information 436 associated with the smart-card
terminal from the user via keyboard 418. For example, account information 436 may be for an
account with a financial institution 448 (such as bank) that processes financial transactions
conducted using the smart-card terminal.
 [047]          Moreover, application module 430 may provide the account information 436 to a
remote server using communication module 428 and communication interface 412.
Subsequently, application module 430 may receive a merchant identifier 438, a terminal
identifier 440 and/or a configuration file 442 from the server using communication interface
412 and communication module 428.                        Next, application module 430 may provide this
information to the smart-card terminal using communication module 428 and communication
interface 412.
 [048]          In this way, portable electronic device 400 can be used to facilitate programming of the
smart-card terminal. After the smart-card terminal is programmed, it can be used to conduct
financial transactions, such as payment by a customer for a good or service provided by the
user. Thus, after the smart-card terminal is programmed, financial application module 432 and

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                                  - 11
the smart-card terminal may be used to conduct one or more financial transactions 444 with
one or more customers 446 and financial institution 448.
[049]           Because information in portable electronic device 400 may be sensitive in nature, in
some embodiments at least some of the data stored in memory 424 and/or at least some of the
data communicated using communication module 428 is encrypted using encryption module
434.
[050]           Instructions in the various modules in memory 424 may be implemented in: a high
level procedural language, an object-oriented programming language, and/or in an assembly or
machine language. Note that the programming language may be compiled or interpreted, e.g.,
configurable or configured, to be executed by the one or more processors 410.
[051]          Although portable electronic device 400 is illustrated as having a number of discrete
items, FIG. 4 is intended to be a functional description of the various features that may be
present in portable electronic device 400 rather than a structural schematic of the embodiments
described herein. In practice, and as recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art, the
functions of portable electronic device 400 may be distributed over a large number of
electronic devices, servers or computers, with various groups of the servers or computers
performing particular subsets of the functions. In some embodiments, some or all of the
functionality of portable electronic device 400 may be implemented in one or more
application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and/or one or more digital signal processors
(DSPs).
[052]           In some embodiments financial application module 432 may include: Quicken TM
and/or TurboTaxT M (from Intuit, Inc., of Mountain View, California), Microsoft MoneyTM
(from Microsoft Corporation, of Redmond, Washington), SplashMoneyT                             M
                                                                                                 (from SplashData,
                                                         TM
Inc., of Los Gatos, CA), Mvelopes                           (from In2M, Inc., of Draper, Utah), and/or open-source
applications such as Gnucash TM, PLCash T M , Budget TM (from Snowmint Creative Solutions,
LLC, of St. Paul, Minnesota), and/or other planning software capable of processing financial
information.
[053]           Moreover, financial application module 432 may include: QuickBooksTM (from Intuit,
Inc., of Mountain View, California), Peachtree TM (from The Sage Group PLC, of Newcastle
Upon Tyne, the United Kingdom), Peachtree CompleteTM (from The Sage Group PLC, of
Newcastle Upon Tyne, the United Kingdom), MYOB Business EssentialsTM (from MYOB

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                         - 12
US, Inc., of Rockaway, New Jersey), NetSuite Small Business AccountingT M (from NetSuite,
Inc., of San Mateo, California), Cougar Mountain TM (from Cougar Mountain Software, of
Boise, Idaho), Microsoft Office Accounting TM (from Microsoft Corporation, of Redmond,
Washington), Simply AccountingT M (from The Sage Group PLC, of Newcastle Upon Tyne,
                                                              TM
the United Kingdom), CYMA IV Accounting                          (from CYMA Systems, Inc., of Tempe,
Arizona), DacEasyTM (from Sage Software SB, Inc., of Lawrenceville, Georgia), Microsoft
Money TM (from Microsoft Corporation, of Redmond, Washington), Tally.ERP (from Tally
Solutions, Ltd., of Bangalore, India) and/or other payroll or accounting software capable of
processing payroll information.
 [054]          Portable electronic devices (such as portable electronic device 400), as well as
computers and servers in system 300 (FIG. 3) may include one of a variety of devices capable
of manipulating computer-readable data or communicating such data between two or more
computing systems over a network, including: a personal computer, a laptop computer, a tablet
computer, a mainframe computer, a portable electronic device (such as a cellular phone or
PDA), a server and/or a client computer (in a client-server architecture). Moreover, network
312 (FIG. 3) may include: the Internet, World Wide Web (WWW), an intranet, a cellular
telephone network, LAN, WAN, MAN, or a combination of networks, or other technology
enabling communication between computing systems.
 [055]          System 300 (FIG. 3) and/or portable electronic device 400 may include fewer
components or additional components. Moreover, two or more components may be combined
into a single component, and/or a position of one or more components may be changed. In
some embodiments, the functionality of system 300 (FIG. 3) and/or portable electronic device
400 may be implemented more in hardware and less in software, or less in hardware and more
in software, as is known in the art.
 [056]          The foregoing description is intended to enable any person skilled in the art to make
and use the disclosure, and is provided in the context of a particular application and its
requirements. Moreover, the foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present disclosure
have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to
be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the forms disclosed. Accordingly, many
modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art, and the general
principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06/2018
                                                         - 13
departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Additionally, the discussion of
the preceding embodiments is not intended to limit the present disclosure. Thus, the present
disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown, but is to be accorded the
widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.
[057]           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[058]           The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06/2018
                                                         - 14
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.             A portable-electronic-device-implemented method for facilitating programming of a
smart-card terminal, wherein a portable electronic device has a communication interface and a
user interface, the method comprising:
                coupling the portable electronic device to the smart-card terminal;
                receiving account information associated with the smart-card terminal from a merchant
via the user interface;
               providing the account information to a computer remotely located relative to the
portable electronic device using the communication interface;
                receiving, from the computer using the communication interface, a merchant identifier
and a terminal identifier;
               providing the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to the smart-card terminal,
thereby facilitating programming of the smart-card terminal;
                wherein, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the method further
comprises:
                receiving, from the computer using the communication interface, a smart-card-terminal
configuration file which includes information specific to a financial institution associated with
the smart-card terminal; and
               programming the smart-card terminal using the smart-card-terminal configuration file
via the portable electronic device to enable the merchant to use the smart-card terminal for
conducting a financial transaction.
2.              The method of claim 1, the method further comprises:
               providing the smart-card-terminal configuration file to the smart-card terminal.
3.              The method of claim 1, wherein the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier
provided to the smart-card terminal are encrypted.
4.              The method of claim 1, wherein the smart-card terminal includes a Europay
MasterCard Visa terminal.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                           - 15
5.              The method of claim 1, wherein, during a financial transaction, the smart-card terminal
receives a user PIN code and financial information stored in a memory on a smart card.
6.              The method of claim 1, wherein the portable electronic device provides an electronic
identity for the smart-card terminal to the computer until the programming of the smart-card
terminal is completed.
7.              The method of claim 1, wherein the smart-card terminal is reprogrammed via the
portable electronic device when additional account information is received; and
                wherein the additional account information is associated with one of the merchant and
another merchant.
8.             A computer-program product for use in conjunction with a portable electronic device,
the computer-program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage
medium and a computer-program mechanism embedded therein, to facilitate programming of
a smart-card terminal according to the method of any preceding claim.
9.             A portable electronic device, comprising:
                a processor;
                a user interface;
                a communication interface;
                memory; and
                a program module, wherein the program module is stored in the memory and
configurable to be executed by the processor to facilitate programming of a smart-card
terminal which is coupled to the portable electronic device, the program module including:
                              instructions for receiving account information associated with the smart-card
terminal from a merchant via the user interface;
                             instructions for providing the account information to a computer remotely
located relative to the portable electronic device using the communication interface;
                             instructions for receiving, from the computer using the communication
interface, a merchant identifier and a terminal identifier; and

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06/2018
                                                           - 16
                             instructions for providing the merchant identifier and the terminal identifier to
the smart-card terminal, thereby facilitating programming of the smart-card terminal;
                wherein, a first time the smart-card terminal is programmed, the program module
further includes:
                             instructions for receiving, from the computer using the communication
interface, a smart-card-terminal configuration file which includes information specific to a
financial institution associated with the smart-card terminal; and
                             instructions for programming the smart-card terminal using the smart-card
terminal configuration file via the portable electronic device to enable the merchant to use the
smart-card terminal for conducting a financial transaction.
10.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the program module further
includes:
                instructions for providing the smart-card-terminal configuration file to the smart-card
terminal.
11.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the merchant identifier and the
terminal identifier provided to the smart-card terminal are encrypted.
12.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the smart-card terminal includes a
Europay MasterCard Visa terminal.
13.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein, during a financial transaction, the
smart-card terminal receives a user PIN code and financial information stored in a memory on
a smart card.
14.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the portable electronic device
provides an electronic identity for the smart-card terminal to the computer until the
programming of the smart-card terminal is completed.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\MAS\17146683_l.docx-12 06 2018
                                                         -17
15.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the smart-card terminal is
reprogrammed via the portable electronic device when additional account information is
received; and
                wherein the additional account information is associated with one of the merchant and
another merchant.
16.             The method of claim 1, further comprising:
                decoupling the portable electronic device from the smart-card terminal, wherein the
merchant identifier is removed from the smart-card terminal when the portable electronic
device is decoupled.
17.             The method of claim 1, wherein the terminal identifier is removed from the smart-card
terminal when the portable electronic device is decoupled.
18.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the merchant identifier is removed
from the smart-card terminal when the portable electronic device is decoupled.
19.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the terminal identifier is removed
from the smart-card terminal when the portable electronic device is decoupled.
20.             The portable electronic device of claim 9, wherein the portable electronic device is a
cellular telephone.

              INTU-126385PC                       1/4
<removed-date>
                                                                                     100
                  COUPLE A PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE TO A SMART-CARD TERMINAL
                                              110
                  RECEIVE ACCOUNT INFORMATION ASSOCIATED WITH THE SMART-CARD
<removed-apn>
                                   TERMINAL FROM A MERCHANT
                                              112
                    PROVIDE THE ACCOUNT INFORMATION TO A COMPUTER REMOTELY
                       LOCATED RELATIVE TO THE PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE
                                               114
                RECEIVE, FROM THE COMPUTER, A MERCHANT IDENTIFIER AND A TERMINAL
                                          IDENTIFIER
                                              116
                       RECEIVE, FROM THE COMPUTER, A SMART-CARD-TERMINAL
                                       CONFIGURATION FILE
                                           (OPTIONAL)
                                              118
                    PROVIDE THE SMART-CARD-TERMINAL CONFIGURATION FILE TO THE
                                      SMART-CARD TERMINAL
                                           (OPTIONAL)
                                              120
                  PROVIDE THE MERCHANT IDENTIFIER AND THE TERMINAL IDENTIFIER TO
                                   THE SMART-CARD TERMINAL
                                               122
                                                                                   FIG. 1

                                                    <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE    SMART-CARD TERMINAL                    SERVER
            210                       212                              214
          COUPLE                    COUPLE
            216                       218
                                                                                      INTU-126385PC
RECEIVE ACCOUNT INFORMATION
            220
PROVIDE ACCOUNT INFORMATION                             RECEIVE ACCOUNT INFORMATION
            222                                                     224
                                                                                      2/4
    RECEIVE MID AND TID                                     PROVIDE MID AND TID
            228                                                    226
    PROVIDE MID AND TID       RECEIVE MID AND TID
           230                        232
                                   FIG. 2

              INTU-126385PC         3/4
<removed-date>
                     SYSTEM
                       300
<removed-apn>
                                  PORTABLE
                                              SMART-CARD
                                 ELECTRONIC
                                               TERMINAL
                                   DEVICE
                                                  212
                                     210
                        SERVER    NETWORK
                          314        312
                                  SERVER
                                    214
                                 FIG. 3

              INTU-126385PC                              4/4
<removed-date>
                                                                                         PORTABLE
                                                                                        ELECTRONIC
<removed-apn>
                                                                                          DEVICE
                                                 410
                                                                                            400
                                                   SIGNAL
                                  PROCESSOR(S)     LINE(S)       MEMORY 424
                                                     422
                                                             OPERATING SYSTEM                 426
                                                                                              428
                                                             COMMUNICATION MODULE
                                                                                              430
                      414                                    APPLICATION MODULE
                                                                                              432
                                                             FINANCIAL APPLICATION MODULE
                        USER INTERFACE                                                         434
                                                             ENCRYPTION MODULE
                              DISPLAY                                                         436
                                             416             ACCOUNT INFORMATION
                                                                                              438
                418         KEYBOARD                         MERCHANT IDENTIFIER
                                                                                              440
                420           POINTER                        TERMINAL IDENTIFIER
                                                                                              442
                                                             CONFIGURATION FILE
                                                                                              444
                                                             FINANCIAL TRANSACTION(S)
                            412
                                                                                              446
                                      COMMUNICATION          CUSTOMER(S)
                                        INTERFACE                                              448
                                                             FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
                                                       FIG. 4

