                                          ABSTRACT
In one aspect, the present invention provides apparatus for pumping a valuable fluid from an
underground area, the apparatus comprising an elongate casing; a tubing string running inside
and along the length of the casing, a space being formed between the outer surface of the
tubing string and the inner surface of the casing; a progressive cavity motor in fluid connection
with the tubing string such that a driving fluid pushed through the tubing string axially rotates
the progressive cavity motor; a progressive cavity pump configured to be axially rotated by
axial rotation of the progressive cavity motor, the progressive cavity pump being configured to
draw the valuable fluid from an underground area surrounding the progressive cavity pump
into an inlet of the progressive cavity pump and expel the valuable fluid through an outlet of
the progressive cavity pump; and a seal formed between the outer surface of the progressive
cavity pump and the inner surface of the casing so as to substantially fluidly isolate the inlet of
the progressive cavity pump from the outlet of the progressive cavity pump.

                  ARTIFICIAL LIFTING SYSTEM FOR OIL EXTRACTION
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The invention relates to an artificial lifting system comprising a progressive cavity motor
for hydrocarbon's extraction. In the invention's system a pump injects a fluid stored in the
surface to the progressive cavity motor, located in the basement; the rotation that occurs
by the passage of fluid is transmitted to a progressive cavity pump such that the
hydrocarbon is pushed toward the surface.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
TECHNICAL FIELD
This invention relates to an artificial lifting system that has a progressive cavity motor that
is installed, in turn, at the bottom of an oil well and that allows generating speed and
torque required to move the progressive cavity pump and to perform the hydrocarbon
extraction.
This invention is directly related to the hydrocarbon sector, specifically for oil extraction
applied technologies. Its applicability is specific in oil wells, mechanical pumping,
electrosubmersible systems and progressing cavity pumps, that are mechanically
connected to a surface speed reducer by a rod string as an artificial lifting system of the
hydrocarbons that are located in the subsurface.
                                                  1

STATE OF THE ART
In hydrocarbons sector it is known the use of electric or hydraulic heads in the surface as
well as a bottom electric motors. This equipment generates the speed and the torque
required for the progressive cavity pumps, which are located at the bottom of oil wells,
for the extraction of hydrocarbons.
In the case of progressive cavity pumps, electric or hydraulic engines are used in the
surface attached to a reduction gearbox that comprises the oil well head. The reducer
rotates the rod strings, which in turn rotates the progressive cavity pump. This system
requires the rods string to act as an element of power transmission between the head
surface and the progressive cavity pump located at the bottom of an oil well. As the
system requires the use of rods there is an additional energy waste due to rods friction
with the fluid and the pipeline. The rods are fatigued with work by constant exposure to
tension, torsion and friction. This wear produces a break or disconnection of rods
interrupting oil extraction. In the case of electro submersible progressive cavity pumps
they use very long and small diameter motors that works at high voltages (4.160V) and
high revolutions per minute (3.600RPM). This system requires a special cable that
transmits electric power from the surface of a superficial transformer to the bottom of the
oil well, where the electric motor is located. Therefore, the electric energy losses occur
as heat all along the cable. Due to the bottom electric motors high speed, the artificial
lifting system is only applicable in high-flow or high production wells.
Considering the highest costs, the complexity and the low reliability inherent in the use of
the rods strings and electrical wires (such as power transmission elements between the
surface head and the pumps or the bottom electric motors) this invention delivers an
artificial lifting system with a progressive cavity motor in the bottom of the well    in oil
extraction. These motors are driven by injected fluid (water or oil) sent from the surface.
As the progressive cavity motor is in the background, the connection between the
progressive cavity motor and the progressive cavity pump is a flexible axis with a length
                                               2

less than 6 m. Hence, this implies that reliability of the system increases for the extraction
of hydrocarbons. Besides, once the fluid traverse the progressive cavity motor, it returns
to the surface, due to communicating vessels effect and a decrease in energy
consumption required for the extraction of hydrocarbons is achieved.
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
In a first aspect, but not necessarily the broadest aspect, the present invention provides
apparatus for pumping a valuable fluid from an underground area, the apparatus
comprising
         an elongate casing;
         a tubing string running inside and along the length of the casing, a space being
formed between the outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the casing;
         a progressive cavity motor in fluid connection with the tubing string such that a
driving fluid pushed through the tubing string axially rotates the progressive cavity motor;
         a progressive cavity pump configured to be axially rotated by axial rotation of the
progressive cavity motor, the progressive cavity pump being configured to draw the
valuable fluid from an underground area surrounding the progressive cavity pump into an
inlet of the progressive cavity pump and expel the valuable fluid through an outlet of the
progressive cavity pump; and
         a seal formed between the outer surface of the progressive cavity pump and the
inner surface of the casing so as to substantially fluidly isolate the inlet of the progressive
cavity pump from the outlet of the progressive cavity pump;
wherein, in use
                                              3

         a driving fluid is pushed through the tubing string so as to axially rotate the
progressive cavity motor, the driving fluid after passing through the progressive cavity
motor entering into the space formed between the outer surface of the tubing string and
the inner surface of the casing;
         the axial rotation of the progressive cavity motor causing axial rotation of the
progressive cavity pump so as to draw the valuable fluid into the apparatus, the valuable
fluid after passing through the progressive cavity pump entering into the space formed
between the outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the casing so as
to mix with the driving fluid; and
the pressure formed by the progressive cavity pump acting to convey the mixture of
driving fluid and valuable fluid in a direction substantially opposite to that of the driving
fluid within the tubing string.
In one embodiment of the first aspect, the apparatus comprises a shaft connecting the
progressive cavity motor to the progressive cavity pump, the shaft configured such that
axial rotation of the progressive cavity motor causes axial rotation of the progressive
cavity pump.
In one embodiment of the first aspect, the shaft is flexible.
In one embodiment of the first aspect, the shaft is surrounded by a perforated shroud
thereby forming a forming a space between the shaft and the shroud, the perforated
shroud configured to direct both (i) driving fluid expelled from the progressive cavity motor
and (ii) valuable fluid expelled from the progressive cavity pump, into the space formed
between the outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the casing.
                                                4

In one embodiment of the first aspect, the space formed between the outer surface of the
tubing string and the inner surface of the casing extends sufficiently far such that, in use,
the mixture or driving fluid and valuable fluid is carried to the ground surface.
In a second aspect, the present invention provides a system for pumping a valuable fluid
from an underground area, the system comprising:
        the apparatus of any embodiment of the first aspect; and
        an above ground collection tank;
wherein the above ground collection tank is in fluid communication with the space formed
between the outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the apparatus
casing such that, in use, the mixture of driving fluid and valuable fluid is carried to the
above ground collection tank.
In one embodiment of the second aspect, the above ground collection tank is configured
as a separation tank configured to allow driving fluid and valuable fluid to separate, and
the valuable fluid to be drawn away from the driving fluid.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
This invention relates to an artificial lifting system that comprises a progressive cavity
motor (10) in the bottom of the well, for the hydrocarbons extraction, which generates a
rotational movement, due to the flow of a fluid between a stator (10.1) and a rotor (10.2).
This system comprises a storage tank of fluid (1), a pump (2) for injecting fluid, a tubing
string (3), that connects the surface with an axial rowlock (4), a tube (8), a stator for a
                                                5

progressive cavity motor (10.1), a perforated tube (11), a stator for a progressive cavity
pump (14.1), an annular seal (13), supported between the stator of the progressive cavity
pump (14) and the well casing (15), a set of tapered roller bearings (5) supported in the
axial rowlock (4), a main shaft (6), supported in the assembly tapered bearing (5), four
couplings for shafts (7), two flexible shafts (9 and 12), a rotor (10.2) of the progressive
cavity motor and a rotor (14.2) of the progressive cavity pump.
The artificial lifting system with progressive cavity motor (10) in the bottom of the well ,
for the extraction of hydrocarbons, consists of a storage tank (1) connected to the fluid
suction pump (2) of injection. The discharge of the injection pump is connected to the
upper end of the tubing string (3) and this in turn is connected at its lower end to an axial
rowlock (4). This axial rowlock has an array of holes in a circular form (4.1), around the
seat of the conical bearings. Within the axial bearing a taper bearing assembly (5) that
supports the load of the main shaft (6) is installed. This main shaft is connected, via a
coupling shaft (7), to one of the flexible shafts (9). At the same time, the other end of the
flexible shaft is connected, via a coupling shaft (7), to the motor's rotor (10.2). The motor's
rotor is located inside the stator (10.1) of the progressive cavity motor, which is attached
to the rowlock (4) through a tube (8). Additionally, the lower end of the rotor (10.2) of the
progressive cavity motor is connected, via coupling shafts (7), to the second flexible shaft
(12). Likewise, the second flexible shaft is connected at its lower rotor (14.2) to the
progressive cavity pump, via coupling shafts (7). The rotor (14.2) of the progressive cavity
pump is installed inside the stator (14.1) of the progressive cavity pump, which supports
the annular gasket (13). Finally, the lower end of the stator (10.1) of the progressive cavity
motor is connected to the upper end of the stator (14.1) of the progressive cavity pump
through a perforated tube (11).
The progressive cavity motor (10) comprises a progressive cavity pump with reverse
rotation to the progressive cavity pump (14). While the progressive cavity motor receives
a fluid to generate a rotational movement, the progressive cavity pump receives rotational
motion from the progressive cavity motor to pump the fluid. The progressive cavity motor
can be a progressive cavity pump installed opposing the progressive cavity pump, as
                                               6

shown in Figure 2. The progressive cavity motor can also be a progressive cavity pump
with inverse flow of the progressive cavity pump, as shown in Figure 3.
The system consists of a pump (2) for fluid injection that sucks the fluid that is contained
in the storage tank (1) and is discharged through the pipe strings (3) to the axial rowlock
(4). Thus, the fluid is directed through the arrangement of the circular holes of the bearing
(4.1). Subsequently, the fluid exits the axial rowlock (4) and passes through the annular
space between the tube (8) and the first flexible shaft (9) towards the rotor assembly
upper mouth (10.2) and stator (10.1), of the progressive cavity motor (10). Once the fluid
passes between the rotor and the stator of progressive cavity motor, the rotor begins to
rotate. The axial load generated by the rotational movement is transmitted to the flexible
shaft (9) and from this to the main shaft (6), that comprises a shoulder (6.1) at the upper
end. Thus, the main shaft rotates and is supported on the taper roller bearings (5). Finally,
the fluid exits the rotor assembly (10.2) and stator (10.1) of the progressive cavity motor
(10) to the lower mouth of the stator towards the outlet holes of the perforated tube (11),
returning to surface through communicating vessels.
The rotational movement produced by the passage of fluid in the system is transmitted
from the rotor (10.2) of the progressive cavity motor (10) to the rotor (14.2) of the
progressive cavity pump (14) via the second flexible shaft (12). When the rotor (14.2) of
the progressive cavity pump (14) rotates within the stator (14.1), the oil flows from the
lower opening to the upper face of the stator (14.1) of the progressive cavity pump (14),
and hence it passes to the outlet holes of the perforated tube (11). When the oil goes out
through the perforated tube, it moves to the surface due to the discharge pressure of the
progressive cavity pump (14).
Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" or
similar wording means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment"
in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
                                               7

embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics
may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill
in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
Similarly it should be appreciated that the description of exemplary embodiments of the
invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single
embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure
and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This
method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the
claimed invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim.
Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a
single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims following the Detailed
Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description, with each
claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.
Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other
features    included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and from different
embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art.
In the claims below and the description herein, any one of the terms "comprising",
"comprised of' or "which comprises" is an open term that means including at least the
elements/features that follow, but not excluding others. Thus, the term comprising, when
used in the claims, should not be interpreted as being limitative to the means or elements
or steps listed thereafter. For example, the scope of the expression a method comprising
step A and step B should not be limited to methods consisting only of methods A and B.
                                              8

Any one of the terms "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used herein is
also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the
term, but not excluding others. Thus, "including" is synonymous with and means
"comprising".
It is not represented that any advantage of the invention will be provided by all
embodiments of the invention. A particular embodiment may provide a single advantage.
A particular embodiment may have no advantage whatsoever, and merely represent a
useful alternative to the prior art.
                                           9

DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Figure 1. Schematic view of the artificial lifting system with progressive cavity motor in
the bottom of the well for oil extraction.
Figure 2. Schematic detailed view of the progressive cavity motor arrangement and the
progressive cavity pump, where both have the same sense of helix, but the progressive
cavity motor is installed in reverse to the progressive cavity pump.
Figure 3. Schematic detailed view of the of the progressive cavity motor arrangement and
the progressive cavity pump, where the progressive cavity motor has an opposite
direction to the direction of the propeller helix of the progressive cavity pump; besides the
progressive cavity motor it is installed in the same direction of the progressive cavity
pump.
Figure 4. Front, top and isometric views of axial rowlock (4) with visualization of the
circular arrangement of holes (4.1) that allow the passage of fluid from the surface and
then activate the progressive cavity motor.
                                               10

REFERENCES LIST
1. STORAGE TANK.
2. FLUID INJECTION PUMP.
3. TUBING STRING.
4. AXIAL ROWLOCK.
       4.1. CIRCULAR HOLES ARRANGEMENT.
5. TAPER BEARING ASSEMBLY.
6. A MAJOR AXIS.
7. COUPLING SHAFT.
8. TUBE.
9. FIRST FLEXIBLE SHAFT.
10. PROGRESSIVE CAVITY MOTOR.
       10.1. STATOR OF PROGRESSIVE CAVITY MOTOR.
       10.2. ROTOR OF PROGRESSIVE CAVITY MOTOR.
11. PERFORATED TUBE.
12. SECOND FLEXIBLE SHAFT.
13. PACKAGING RELEASE.
14. PROGRESSIVE CAVITY PUMP.
       14.1. STATOR OF PROGRESSIVE CAVITY PUMP.
                                  11

      14.2. ROTOR OF PROGRESSIVE CAVITY PUMP.
15. WELL CASING.
                                 12

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.      Apparatus for pumping a valuable fluid from an underground area, the apparatus
comprising
         an elongate casing;
         a tubing string running inside and along the length of the casing, a space being
formed between the outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the casing;
         a progressive cavity motor in fluid connection with the tubing string such that a
driving fluid pushed through the tubing string axially rotates the progressive cavity motor;
         a progressive cavity pump configured to be axially rotated by axial rotation of the
progressive cavity motor, the progressive cavity pump being configured to draw the
valuable fluid from an underground area surrounding the progressive cavity pump into an
inlet of the progressive cavity pump and expel the valuable fluid through an outlet of the
progressive cavity pump; and
         a seal formed between the outer surface of the progressive cavity pump and the
inner surface of the casing so as to substantially fluidly isolate the inlet of the progressive
cavity pump from the outlet of the progressive cavity pump.
2.       The apparatus of claim 2, wherein, in use a driving fluid is pushed through the
tubing string so as to axially rotate the progressive cavity motor, the driving fluid after
passing through the progressive cavity motor entering into the space formed between the
outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the casing;
the axial rotation of the progressive cavity motor causing axial rotation of the progressive
cavity pump so as to draw the valuable fluid into the apparatus, the valuable fluid after
                                             13

passing through the progressive cavity pump entering into the space formed between the
outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the casing so as to mix with the
driving fluid; and
the pressure formed by the progressive cavity pump acting to convey the mixture of
driving fluid and valuable fluid in a direction substantially opposite to that of the driving
fluid within the tubing string.
3.       The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2, comprising a shaft connecting the progressive
cavity motor to the progressive cavity pump, the shaft configured such that axial rotation
of the progressive cavity motor causes axial rotation of the progressive cavity pump.
4.       The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the shaft is flexible.
5.       The apparatus of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the shaft is surrounded by a
perforated shroud thereby forming a forming a space between the shaft and the shroud,
the perforated shroud configured to direct both (i) driving fluid expelled from the
progressive cavity motor and (ii) valuable fluid expelled from the progressive cavity pump,
into the space formed between the outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface
of the casing.
6.       The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the space formed between the
outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the casing extends sufficiently
far such that, in use, the mixture or driving fluid and valuable fluid is carried to the ground
surface.
                                               14

7.     A system for pumping a valuable fluid from an underground area, the system
comprising:
       the apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 6; and
       an above ground collection tank;
wherein the above ground collection tank is in fluid communication with the space formed
between the outer surface of the tubing string and the inner surface of the apparatus
casing such that, in use, the mixture of driving fluid and valuable fluid is carried to the
above ground collection tank.
8.     The system of claim 7, wherein the above ground collection tank is configured as
a separation tank configured to allow driving fluid and valuable fluid to separate, and the
valuable fluid to be drawn away from the driving fluid.
                                            15

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

