ABSTRACT
A system for performing a medical procedure includes an articulating probe including inner
and outer sleeves, and a surgical tool including a functional element positioned at a distal end
of a tool shaft, the tool shaft having an articulation region. The articulating probe and the
surgical tool are independently controllable.

                                                  1/13
      FIG 1A
  100                        120
                                                                          180
                                                                      170c   176a
                                                                   1045           170b
                                                   160105
               160d              -                                                      /1050
                                   I      IL                  1040                              00b
                                                 135b                                            20
 1045                160c
                                                                               ~<                 {,165b
135a     t160b                                 1055
 165a                10                        6b16                                           166
1040                  60165a                                                                 17
                    -- 4 - - -1                                                    75c
                                                       --b                         170a
                                           j 166b
166                                       1050                     FIG 1B
200a,                                           '200
                                              175a
170c\                     0,                  170b
                                              175b18
175c                                       6K -235b                   170c   175a
 200c                                                a             1045           170b
                                                                                      1055
                                                        \                  200d            01050
                                                          25aP1040                                200b
    25I                                         250b
                                      250d
      1010                           1025                       1 a                           106b
                           1020                            16a                            1t5b
                                                                    i7Sc 1755b
                                                                                  170a
                                                                   FIG 1C

                ARTICULATING SURGICAL TOOLS AND TOOL SHEATHS, AND
                               METHODS OF DEPLOYING THE SAME
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5          This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/472,344, filed April 6, 201 1, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
   entirety.
            This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US201 1/060214, filed
   November 10, 201 1, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 0          This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/412,733, filed
   November 11, 2010, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/534,032, filed
   September 13, 201 1,the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/492,578, filed June
 5 2, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/406,032, filed
   October 22, 2010, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US201 1/057282, filed
   October 21, 201 1,the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 0          This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/368,257, filed July
   28, 2010, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US201 1/04481 1, filed July 21,
   201 1, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/578,582, filed
25 December 2 1, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            This application is related to U.S. Patent Application No. 1 1/630,279, filed December
   20, 2006, published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009/0171 151, the content of
   which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
30

     TECHNICAL FIELD
              The present inventive concepts generally relate to the field of surgical tools, and more
     particularly, to articulating surgical tools and tool sheaths, methods of deploying articulating
     surgical tools and tool sheaths, and methods of forming the same.
  5
     BACKGROUND
              As less invasive medical techniques and procedures become more widespread,
     medical professionals, such as surgeons, may require articulating surgical tools to perform
     such less invasive medical techniques and procedures from outside the human body.
  0  However, conventional articulating surgical tools, such as endoscopes and other types of
    tools, may have limited turning radii and reduced payload stability at high articulation ranges.
     SUMMARY
              Embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be directed to articulating
 .5  surgical tools and tool sheaths that have extended turning radii and increased payload
    stability at high articulation ranges.
             In one aspect, a system for performing a medical procedure comprises: an articulating
    probe including inner and outer sleeves; and a surgical tool including a functional element
    positioned at a distal end of a tool shaft, the tool shaft having an articulation region, wherein
  O the articulating probe and the surgical tool are independently controllable.
             In some embodiments, the articulating probe is constructed and arranged to be
    controlled via a human interface device. The human interface device may include one or
    more selected from the group consisting of: a haptic controller, ajoystick, a track ball, a
    mouse and an electromechanical device.
25           In some embodiments, the surgical tool is constructed and arranged to be controlled
    via a surgical tool handle. The surgical tool handle may include one selected from the group
    consisting of: scissor handles, a palm-held grip, a thumb/index/middle finger grip and a pistol
    grip
             In some embodiments, the articulating probe further includes at least one working
30  channel having an opening at a working surface of the articulating probe, the working surface
    being at a distal end of the articulating probe. A portion of the tool shaft may be positioned
    within the at least one working channel. The functional element of the surgical tool may
    extend outwardly from the opening. The functional element may be constructed and arranged
                                                     -2--

     to articulate with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe. The functional
     element may be constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to an axis of extension of
    the tool shaft. The functional element may be constructed and arranged to articulate between
     0' and 900 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe. The functional
  5  element may be constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 135' with respect to
    the working surface of the articulating probe. The functional element may be constructed and
     arranged to articulate between 0' and 1800 with respect to the working surface of the
     articulating probe.
              In some embodiments, the outer sleeve of the articulating probe includes at least one
 0   side port. The at least one side port may include a side port lock. The side port lock may
    include a pneumatic lock. The pneumatic lock may include a solenoid. The pneumatic lock
    may include an expandable pouch. The side port lock may include a hydraulic lock. The
    hydraulic lock may include a solenoid. The hydraulic lock may include an expandable pouch
    or balloon. The side port lock may include an electrically activated lock. The electrically
 5  activated lock may include a solenoid. The electrically activated lock may include a
    piezoelectric actuator. The side port lock may be positioned within the at least one side port.
    The side port lock may be constructed and arranged to secure a tool shaft that passes through
    the at least one side port in a locked mode. The side port lock may be constructed and
    arranged to allow a tool shaft to pass through the at least one side port in an unlocked mode.
 0           In some embodiments, the outer sleeve of the articulating probe includes at least one
    side port. A portion of the tool shaft may pass through the at least one side port. The side
    port may guide the tool shaft along an outer surface of the outer sleeve. The functional
    element of the surgical tool may extend outwardly from a working surface of the articulating
    probe, the working surface being at a distal end of the articulating probe. The functional
25  element may be constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to the working surface of
    the articulating probe. The functional element may be constructed and arranged to articulate
    with respect to an axis of extension of the tool shaft. The functional element may be
    constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 900 with respect to the working surface
    of the articulating probe. The functional element may be constructed and arranged to
30  articulate between 0' and 135' with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
    The functional element may be constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 180'
    with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
                                                   -3-

              In some embodiments, each of the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating probe
    includes a plurality of probe links.
              In some embodiments, the inner sleeve and the outer sleeve of the articulating probe
    are independently controllable. Each of the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating probe
 5  may be configured in one of a limp mode and a rigid mode.
             In some embodiments, the articulating probe includes at least one steering cable. The
    at least one steering cable may terminate at a region proximal to a distal end of the
    articulating probe.
             In some embodiments, the functional element includes one or more selected from the
 0  group consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an ablator, a cauterizer, a drug
    delivery apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a
    camera, a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic element.
             In some embodiments, the functional element includes a first tool sheath cavity and
    the tool shaft includes a second tool sheath cavity. The surgical tool may be constructed and
 5  arranged to provide a cavity path for entry of a second surgical tool. The first tool sheath
    cavity and second tool sheath cavity may be coupled to form the cavity path. A region of the
    cavity path may correspond to the articulation region of the tool shaft.
             In some embodiments, the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed and
    arranged to lock an articulated position of the functional element.
 0           In some embodiments, the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed and
    arranged to lock an operational mode of the functional element.
             In some embodiments, the functional element includes a grasper. The grasper may be
   constructed and arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF. The grasper may
   be constructed and arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF when the
25 articulation region is positioned in a fully articulated state.
             In some embodiments, the system is constructed and arranged to perform a transoral
   robotic surgery procedure.
             In some embodiments, the articulation region of the tool shaft includes at least two
   segment links. One segment link of the at least two segment links may be unitary. Each
30 segment link of the at least two segment links may be unitary. A first segment link of the at
   least two segment links may be coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second
   segment link of the at least two segment links may be coupled to a second shaft portion of the
   tool shaft. The functional element may be coupled to the second shaft portion. A first
                                                   -4-

    segment link of the at least two segment links may be coupled to a first shaft portion of the
    tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least two segment links may be coupled to the
    functional element. The articulation region of the tool shaft may further include one or more
    third segment links coupled between the first segment link and the second segment link.
 5           The first segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second portion,
    wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion. The first segment link
    may include a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
    includes a convex body portion. The convex body portion may be a semi-spherical body
    portion. The convex body portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The first portion
 0  may include a cylindrical body portion. The semi-spherical body portion of the first segment
    link may mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first shaft portion. The semi
    spherical body portion of the first segment link may mate with a concave cavity portion of the
    first shaft portion. The concave cavity portion may be a semi-spherical cavity portion. The
    concave cavity portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal cavity portion.
 5           The first segment link may include at least one articulation cable channel. The at least
    one articulation cable channel may include a first opening in an upper surface of the first
    portion and a second opening in a bottom surface of the first portion. The first portion may
    include a cylindrical body portion. The at least one articulation cable channel may comprise
    first through fourth articulation cable channels that may be spaced 900 apart around the
 0  circumference or perimeter of the first portion. The at least one articulation cable channel
    may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that may be positioned 90'
    apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the first
    portion.   The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion.
             The first segment may include an actuation cable channel. The actuation cable
25  channel may include a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body
    portion of the first segment and a second opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion
    of the first segment. The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion. The actuation
    cable channel may include an upper taperjoined at the first opening that conforms the first
    opening with a cylindrical cavity of the body of the first segment. The cylindrical cavity may
30 join a lower taper of the body of the first segment. The lower taper may conform the
    cylindrical cavity with a semi-spherical cavity of the body of the first segment. The second
    segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the
    second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion.
                                                  -5-

              The second segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second
     portion, wherein the second portion includes a convex body portion. The convex body
    portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The convex body portion may be a semi
     ellipsoidal body portion. The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion. The semi
  5  spherical body portion of the second segment link may mate with a semi-spherical cavity
    portion of the first segment link. The semi-spherical body portion of the second segment link
    may mate with a concave cavity portion of the first segment link. The concave cavity portion
    may be a semi-spherical cavity portion. The concave cavity portion may be a semi
     ellipsoidal cavity portion. At least two articulation cable channels of the first segment link
  0 may be aligned with at least two articulation cable channels of the second segment link. Each
     articulation cable channel of the first segment link may be aligned with each articulation
    cable channel of the second segment link.
             The body of the second segment link may include at least one articulation cable
    channel. The at least one articulation cable channel may include a first opening in an upper
  5 surface of the first portion and a second opening in a bottom surface of the first portion. The
    first portion may include a cylindrical body portion. The at least one articulation cable
    channel may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced 900
    apart around the circumference or perimeter of the first portion. The at least one articulation
    cable channel may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that positioned
 ,0 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the first
    portion. The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion.
             The body of the second segment may include an actuation cable channel. The
    actuation cable channel may include a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi
    spherical body portion of the second segment and a second opening at a diametric midpoint
25  of the first portion of the second segment. The first portion may include a cylindrical body
    portion. The actuation cable channel may include an upper taperjoined at the first opening
    that conforms the first opening with a first cylindrical cavity of the body of the second
    segment. The first cylindrical cavity may join a second cylindrical cavity of the body of the
    second segment. A diameter of the first cylindrical cavity may be less than a diameter of the
30  second cylindrical cavity.
             The second segment link may be coupled to the functional element. The second
    segment link may be coupled to a connection link of the functional element. The connection
                                                   -6-

   link may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
   thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
            The functional element may include an actuating piston positioned within an inner
   cavity of the connection link. The actuation piston may include a material selected from the
5 group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl
   chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer. The functional element may further include first and
  second actuation link members coupled to the actuating piston. The first and second
   actuation link members may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal,
  plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal
0 polymer. The functional element may further include first and second claw members
  respectively coupled to the first and second actuation link members. The first and second
  claw members may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
  thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
  Linear movement of the actuating piston within the inner cavity of the connection link may
5 cause the first and second claw members to open and close. An actuating cable may be
  coupled to the actuating piston. The actuating cable may include One or more selected from
  the group consisting of: a metal cable, a plastic cable, a sold wire cable, a braided cable and a
  stainless steel wire braided cable.
           The at least two segment links may include a material selected from the group
o consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a
  liquid-crystal polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene.     The first segment link may include a
  material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
  stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene.    The
  second segment link may include a material different from the first segment link.
5          In some embodiments, a first segment link of the at least two segment links may be
  coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least two
  segment links is coupled to one of a second shaft portion of the tool shaft and the functional
  element. The first shaft portion of the tool shaft includes a cable transitioning segment.
           The cable transitioning segment may include at least one articulation cable channel.
0 The at least one articulation cable channel may comprise first through fourth articulation
  cable channels that are spaced 900 apart around the circumference of the cable transitioning
  segment. At least two articulation cable channels of the cable transitioning -segment may be
  aligned with at least two articulation cable channels of the first segment link.
                                                  -7-

              The cable transitioning segment may include an actuation cable channel. The
     actuation cable channel may be positioned at a diametric midpoint of the cable transitioning
     segment. The cable transitioning segment may include a material selected from the group
     consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a
  5  liquid-crystal polymer, and polytetrafluoroethylene.
              The first shaft portion of the tool shaft may include a flexible tool shaft portion. The
     flexible tool shaft portion may include a lumen guiding member having at least one cable
     channel. The at least one cable channel may include an actuating cable channel and at least
     one articulation cable channel. The actuating cable channel may be positioned at a diametric
 .0 midpoint of the flexible tool shaft portion, and the at least one articulation cable channel may
    be positioned along a circumference of the flexible tool shaft portion. The lumen guiding
    member includes a five lumen stiffening rod. The lumen guiding member may include a
    material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
     stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer, and polytetrafluoroethylene.
 .5          At least one cavity slot may be formed in the bottom surface of the first portion of the
     second segment. The at least one cavity slot may include a first cavity slot and a second
    cavity slot. The first cavity slot may extend from a first articulation cable channel of the at
    least one articulation cable channel to a second articulation cable channel of the at least one
    articulation cable channel. A first articulation cable may be positioned within the first
  O articulation cable channel, the first cavity slot and the second articulation cable channel. The
    first articulation cable may be secured to a surface of the first cavity slot. The first
    articulation cable may be welded to the surface of the first cavity slot. The first articulation
    cable may be glued to the surface of the first cavity slot. The first articulation cable may be
    press fit within the first cavity slot. The second cavity slot may extend from a third
25  articulation cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel to a fourth articulation
    cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel. A second articulation cable may
    be positioned within the third articulation cable channel, the second cavity slot and the fourth
    articulation cable channel.
             The at least one cavity slot may extend along an entire circumference of the bottom
30  surface of the cylindrical body portion of the second segment. The second opening of the at
    least one articulation cable channel may be partially defined by the at least one cavity slot.
    At least one articulation cable may be positioned within the at least one articulation cable
                                                     -8-

    channel, and wherein the at least one articulation cable may be secured to a surface of the at
    least one cavity slot.
             In some embodiments, the articulation region of the tool shaft may include a plurality
    of segment links. Each segment link of the plurality of segment links may be sequentially
 5  coupled to another segment link of the plurality of segment links. The plurality of segment
    links may articulate with respect to one another. A bottom surface of a first portion of a first
    segment link of the plurality of segment links may abut an upper surface of a first portion of a
    second segment link of the plurality of segment links to restrict an angle of articulation with
   respect to a center axis of each of the first and second segment links. The angle of
 0  articulation may be restricted to 120 to 150.
            The first portion of the first segment link may include a cylindrical body portion and
   the first portion of the second segment link may include a cylindrical body portion. Each
   segment link of the plurality of segment links may be constructed and arranged to provide
    12' to 150 of articulation between the functional element and a working surface of the
 5 articulating probe. Each segment link of the plurality of segment links may be constructed
   and arranged to provide 120 to 150 of articulation between the functional element and a
   longitudinal axis of a cable transitioning segment of the tool shaft. Each segment link of the
   plurality of segment links may be constructed and arranged to provide 120 to 150 of
   articulation between the functional element and an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
 O          In some embodiments, the articulation region may be constructed and arranged to
   support a force of approximately 1 Ib without deflecting more than approximately        12 inch.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region may be constructed and arranged to
   support a force of approximately 1 IbF without deflecting more than approximately % inch
   when in a fully articulated state.
25          In another aspect, a surgical tool comprises: a functional element positioned at a distal
   end of a tool shaft; and a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft, wherein
   the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region may be positioned at the distal end of
   the tool shaft between the functional element and a first portion of the tool shaft.
 0          In some embodiments, the articulation region may be positioned at a central region of
   the tool shaft. The articulation region may be positioned between a first portion of the tool
   shaft and a second portion of the tool shaft. The tool handle may be coupled to a proximal
   end of the first portion of the tool shaft.
                                                   -9-

             The articulation region may include a plurality of segment links. Each segment link
    of the plurality of segment links may be constructed and arranged to provide 120 to 150 of
    articulation between the functional element and an axis of the tool shaft. A first segment link
    of the plurality of segment links may be coupled to a first portion of the tool shaft and a
 5  second segment of the plurality of segment links is coupled to the functional element.
             The first segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second portion,
   wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion. The first portion may
    include a cylindrical body portion.
             The second segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second
 0 portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion. The first portion
   may include a cylindrical body portion.
            The semi-spherical body portion of the first segment link may mate with a semi
    spherical cavity portion of the first portion of the tool shaft and wherein the semi-spherical
   body portion of the second segment link may mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the
 5 first segment link.    The functional element may include a connection link having a semi
   spherical body portion that mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the second segment
   link.
            Each of the plurality of segment links may include a body having a first portion and a
   second portion, wherein the second portion may include a semi-spherical body portion, and
 0 wherein each of the plurality of segment links may include at least one articulation cable
   channel and an actuating cable channel. The first portion may include a cylindrical body
   portion.
            At least one articulation cable may be positioned within the at least one articulation
   cable channel. The at least one articulation cable may be secured to a distal segment link of
25 the plurality of segment links. A tension applied to the at least one articulation cable may
   cause the functional element to articulate with respect to the tool shaft.
            An actuating cable may be positioned within the actuating cable channel. A tension
   applied to the actuating cable may cause the functional element to change state.
            In some embodiments, the tool shaft includes a five-lumen extrusion positioned
30 within a wire coil. A tool shaft cover may surround the wire coil. The tool shaft cover may
   include a Pebax@-type shaft cover.
                                                  -10-

              In another aspect, a surgical tool comprises: a functional element positioned at a distal
     end of a tool shaft; and a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft, wherein
     the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
              In some embodiments, the articulation region may include a plurality of segment links.
  5 A first segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a body having first and
     second concave cavities formed at opposite end surfaces of the body.      The first concave
     cavity may be a semi-spherical cavity. The first concave cavity may be a semi-ellipsoidal
     cavity. The second concave cavity may be a semi-spherical cavity. The second concave
     cavity may be a semi-ellipsoidal cavity.
  0          A second segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a body having
     first and second convex body portions formed at opposite end surfaces of a center body
    portion. The first convex body portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The first
    convex body portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The second convex body
    portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The second convex body portion may be a
  5 semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The center body portion may be cylindrical.
             One of the first and second convex body portions of the second segment link may
    mate with one of the first and second concave cavities of the first segment link. The other of
    the first and second convex body portions of the second segment link may mate with a
    concave cavity of the tool shaft. The other of the first and second concave cavities of the first
 '0 segment link may mate with a convex body portion of a third segment link of the plurality of
    segment links. The third segment link may be coupled to the functional element.
             In some embodiments, a first segment link of the plurality of segment links may
    include a first body having a first protrusion extending from a surface of the first body. The
    first body may be a cylindrical body. The first body may have an elliptical cross-section.
25  The first protrusion may be a cylindrical protrusion. The first protrusion may have an
    elliptical cross-section.
             A second segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a second body
    having a second protrusion extending from a first surface of the second body. The second
    body may be a cylindrical body. The second body may have an elliptical cross-section. The
30  second protrusion may be a cylindrical protrusion. The second protrusion may have an
    elliptical cross-section.
             The second segment link may include a concave cavity formed in a second surface of
    the second body. The concave cavity may be a semi-spherical cavity. The concave cavity
                                                   - 11 -

     may be a semi-ellipsoidal cavity. The first protrusion of the first segment link may mate with
     the concave cavity of the second segment link. The first segment link may be coupled to the
     functional element. The second protrusion of the second segment link may mate with a
     concave cavity of the tool shaft.
  5          In some embodiments, a first segment link of the plurality of segment links may
     include a body having a first body portion and a second body portion. The first body portion
    may include a cylindrical body portion. The first body portion may have an elliptical cross
     section. The second body portion may include a convex body portion. The convex body
    portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The convex body portion may be a semi
 .0  ellipsoidal body portion.
             A second segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a body having
     center body portion, a convex body portion coupled to a first surface of the center body
    portion, and a plurality of posts extending outwardly from a second surface of the center body
    portion. The convex body portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The convex body
  5 portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The center body portion may be cylindrical.
    The center body portion may have an elliptical cross-section. The plurality of posts may be
    cylindrical. The plurality of posts may have elliptical cross-sections. The plurality of posts
    may include one of rounded or beveled upper edges.
             The plurality of posts may be arranged along a common radial path relative to a center
 10 axis the second surface of the center body portion. The plurality of posts may include a
    center post and two or more outer posts, the center post being positioned at a diametric
    midpoint of the second surface. The two or more outer posts may be arranged along a
    common radial path relative to the center post. The outer posts may be equally spaced apart.
    The two or more outer posts may each have a first height greater than a second height of the
25  center post.
             The second body portion of the first segment link may mate with the plurality of posts
    extending outwardly from the second surface of the center body portion.      The convex body
    portion of the second segment link may mate with a plurality of posts of a third segment link
    of the plurality of segment links. The third segment link may be coupled to the tool shaft.
30
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             The foregoing and other objects, features and advantages of embodiments of the
    present inventive concepts will be apparent from the more particular description of preferred
                                                  -12-

    embodiments, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which like reference characters
    refer to the same elements throughout the different views. The drawings are not necessarily
    to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the preferred
    embodiments.
 5           FIG. 1A is a perspective view of an articulating probe of a system for performing a
    medical procedure, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
             FIGs. IB and 1C are end views of a working surface of the articulating probe
    illustrated at FIG. 1A, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
             FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with
 0  embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
             FIGs. 3A and 3B are perspective views of a distal end of the articulating surgical tool
   illustrated at FIG. 2, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
             FIG. 4A is a perspective view of segment links of the articulating surgical tool
   illustrated at FIG. 3, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
 5           FIG. 4B is a perspective view of segment links of the articulating surgical tool
   illustrated at FIG. 3, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
             FIG. 4C is a cross-sectional perspective view of the segment links illustrated at FIG.
   4, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
             FIGs. 5A and 5B are perspective views illustrating articulation ranges of the
 0 articulating surgical tool illustrated at FIG. 2, in accordance with embodiments of the present
   inventive concepts;
             FIG. 6A is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
   configuration of an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present
   inventive concepts;
25           FIG. 6B is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
   configuration of an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present
   inventive concepts;
             FIG. 6C is a sectional view of the third segment links illustrated in FIG. 6B, in
   accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
30           FIG. 7 is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
   an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive
   concepts;
                                                   - 13 -

              FIG. 8A is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
     an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive
     concepts;
             FIG. 8B is a perspective view of a segment link, in accordance with embodiments of
  5 the present inventive concepts;
             FIG. 8C is a top view of the segment link illustrated in FIG. 8B, in accordance with
     embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
             FIG. 8D is a perspective view of a segment link, in accordance with embodiments of
    the present inventive concepts;
 o           FIG. 8E is a top view of the segment link illustrated in FIG. 8D, in accordance with
     embodiments of the present inventive concepts; and
             FIG. 9 is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
     an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive
     concepts.
 5
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
             The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments
    and is not intended to be limiting of the inventive concepts. As used herein, the singular
 0  forms "a," "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context
    clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms "comprises,"
    "comprising," "includes" and/or "including," when used herein, specify the presence of stated
    features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the
    presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements,
25  components, and/or groups thereof.
             It will be understood that, although the terms first, second, third etc. may be used
    herein to describe various limitations, elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections,
    these limitations, elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections should not be limited
    by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one limitation, element, component,
30  region, layer or section from another limitation, element, component, region, layer or section.
    Thus, a first limitation, element, component, region, layer or section discussed below could
    be termed a second limitation, element, component, region, layer or section without departing
    from the teachings of the present application.
                                                   -14-

              It will be further understood that when an element is referred to as being "on" or
     "connected" or "coupled" to another element, it can be directly on or above, or connected or
     coupled to, the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast, when an
     element is referred to as being "directly on" or "directly connected" or "directly coupled" to
  5  another element, there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the
     relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion (e.g., "between" versus
     "directly between," "adjacent" versus "directly adjacent," etc.).    When an element is referred
     to herein as being "over" another element, it can be over or under the other element, and
     either directly coupled to the other element, or intervening elements may be present, or the
 [0  elements may be spaced apart by a void or gap.
              FIG. 1A is a perspective view of an articulating probe of a system for performing a
    medical procedure, and FIGs. IB and IC are end views of a working surface of the
     articulating probe illustrated at FIG. 1A. A system 100 for performing a medical procedure,
     such as a transoral robotic surgery procedure, may include an articulating probe 120 for
 .5  guiding one or more surgical tools 200, 200a-d and/or tool sheaths 200, 200a within a patient
    body. The system 100 may include one or more features of the surgical positioning and
     support system described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/368,257, filed
    July 28, 2010 corresponding to PCT application serial number PCT/US201 1/04481 1, filed
    July 2 1, 20 11, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 !0           An operator, such as a medical professional, may control the articulating probe 120
    via a human interface device (HID) to manipulate or otherwise control the functions and
    movement of the articulating probe 120. The HID may include one selected from the group
     consisting of: a haptic controller, ajoystick, a track ball, a mouse and an electromechanical
    device.
25            The articulating probe 120 may include an inner sleeve (not shown) and an outer
    sleeve 160, which can advance or retract with respect to one another during manipulation of
    the articulating probe 120. For example, the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating probe
     120, which may include a plurality of inner links and a plurality of outer links 160, 160a-d,
    can be configured in one of a limp mode and a rigid mode so as to facilitate the manipulation
30  of the articulating probe 120. For example, the inner and outer sleeves may be configured in
    one of the limp mode and the rigid mode via one or more steering cables of the articulation
    probe 120.
                                                    - 15-

              Exemplary probes are further described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
     2009/0171 151, published on July 2, 2009, by Choset, et al., and U.S. Patent Application
     Publication No. 2008/0039690, published February 14, 2008, by Zubiate, et al, the contents
     of each being herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
  5           The articulating probe 120 may include at least one working channel 170, 170a-c
     having an opening at a working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. The working
     channel 170, 170a-c may extend throughout the articulating probe 120, for example, from a
    proximal end to a distal end of the articulating probe 120. The working surface 180 may be
    positioned at a distal end of the articulating probe 120. For example, the working surface 180
  0 may be positioned at a distal end of an outer distal link I 60a of the articulating probe 120.
              The articulating probe 120 may include at least one side port or guide hole 166, 166a
    b. For example, in the embodiments shown at FIG. 1, the articulating probe 120 includes first
     and second side ports 166a, 166b formed in flanges 165a, 165b of an outer link 160a. The
     articulating probe 120 may further include at least one feed tube 135, 135a-b coupled to the
 .5  side port or guide hole 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120.
              Although first and second side ports 166a, 166b are shown at FIG. 1A, a plurality of
    first and second side ports 166a, 166b may be formed in a plurality of flanges 165a, 165b of
    the articulating probe 120. For example, multiple first and/or second side ports 166a, 166b
    may be positioned along the outer sleeve 160 of the articulating probe 120 so as to provide a
  0 guide for one or more feed tubes 135, 135a-b that articulate in common with the articulating
    probe 120.
              The articulating probe may include one or more light sources 175, 175a-c provided at
    the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. The light sources 175, 175a-c may
    include electron stimulated light sources such as electron stimulated luminescence light
25  sources, incandescent light sources such as incandescent light bulbs, electroluminescent light
    sources such as light-emitting diodes, and gas discharge light sources such as fluorescent
    lamps.
             The light sources 175, 175a-c may further include optical fibers, which can be
    configured to transmit light to and from the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120.
30           The system 100 may further include one or more surgical tools 200, 200a-d having an
    articulation region 235, 235a-b. The system 100 may be configured to allow an operator to
    independently control the articulating probe 120 and the surgical tools 200, 200a-d. For
    example, the articulating probe 120 may be controlled via a HID and the surgical tools 200,
                                                   -16-

    200a-d may be controlled via a tool handle (see for example, tool handle 205 shown at FIG.
    2).
             The system 100 may be configured with any number of surgical tools 200, 200a-d,
    which can be slidably positioned within a working channel 170, 170a-c of the articulating
 5 probe 120 and/or a side port 166, 166a-b or guide hole 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe
    120.
             The articulating probe 120 may be configured to guide one or more surgical tools 200,
    200a-d, for example, during a medical procedure. For example, prior, during or after a
   medical procedure, a portion of the surgical tool shaft may be positioned within at least one
 0  of the working channels 170, 170a-c of the articulating probe 120. The articulating probe
    120 may be further configured to allow an operator to slidably position the surgical tool shaft
   within at least one of the working channels 170, 170a-c so that a functional element 250,
   250a-b of the surgical tool 200, 200a-d can be extended outwardly from a working channel
   opening.
 5          In a further example, prior, during or after a medical procedure, a portion of the
    surgical tool shaft may be positioned within at least one side port or guide hole 166, 166a-b
   of the articulating probe 120. The articulating probe 120 may be further configured to allow
   an operator to slidably position the surgical tool shaft within at least one of the side ports or
   guide holes 166, 166a-b so that a functional element 250, 250a-b of the surgical tool 200,
 0 200a-d can be extended outwardly from the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120.
   A portion of the surgical tool shaft may pass through at least one side port or guide hole 166,
    166a-b of the articulating probe 120, such that the side port or guide hole 166, 166a-b guides
   the surgical tool shaft along an outer surface of the outer sleeve 160 of the articulating probe
    120.
 5          The articulating probe 120 may include side port or guide hole locks 1040, 1050,
   which can be configured in one of a locked or unlocked mode. The lock 1040, 1050 may be
   constructed to secure a position of a surgical tool 200, 200a-b positioned within the side ports
   or guide holes 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120, thus preventing the surgical tool 200,
   200a-b from sliding within the side ports or guide holes 166, 166a-b.
30          In some embodiments, the articulating probe 120 may include a pneumatic or
   hydraulic lock 1050, such as a solenoid or air/fluid pouch. For example, the pneumatic or
   hydraulic lock 1050 may be positioned within the side ports or guide holes 166, 166a-b of the
                                                 -17-

    articulating probe 120. The articulating probe 120 may further comprise a channel or tube
     1055 for supplying pressurized gas or liquid to the pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050.
             In some embodiments, the articulating probe 120 may include an electrically activated
    lock 1040, such as a solenoid, piezoelectric actuator or nitinol actuated lock. For example,
 5  the electrically activated lock 1040 may be positioned within the side ports or guide holes
     166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120. The articulating probe 120 may further comprise a
    conductor 1045 such as a wire or cable for supplying an actuating signal to the electrically
    activated lock 1040.
             Referring to FIG. IB, the electrically activated lock 1040 is shown positioned within
 0 the first side port or guide hole 166a of the articulating probe 120, and the pneumatic or
   hydraulic lock 1050 is shown positioned within the second side port or guide hole 166b of the
    articulating probe 120. In this illustration, the electrically activated lock 1040 and the
   pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050 are shown in the unlocked mode so as to allow an operator
   or user of the system 100 to slidably position a surgical tool shaft within the side port or
 5 guide holes 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120.
             Referring to FIG. I C, the pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050 is shown in the locked
   mode. In the locked mode, the pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050 expands within the side
   port or guide hole 166, 166b so as to secure the shaft of the surgical tool 200, 200b within the
   side port or guide hole 166, 166b. Although not shown, the electrically activated lock 1040
 0 may be configured to expand within the side port or guide hole 166, 166a so as to secure the
   shaft of the surgical tool 200, 200a within the side port or guide hole 166, 166a.
             The functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and arranged to articulate
   with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. For example, in the
   embodiments shown at FIG. 1A, the functional elements 250a, 250b are shown articulated
25 with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. The functional
   elements 250, 250a, 250b may also be constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to
   an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
            The functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and arranged to articulate
   between 0' and 900 with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120
30 and/or an axis of extension of the tool shaft. The functional element 250, 250a-b may be
   constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 1350 with respect to the working
   surface 180 of the articulating probe 120 and/or an axis of extension of the tool shaft. The
   functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and
                                                   - 18-

      1800 with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120 and/or an axis of
     extension of the tool shaft. The functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and
     arranged to articulate at an angle greater than 180' with respect to the working surface 180 of
     the articulating probe 120 and/or an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
  5           The functional element 250 may include one or more selected from the group
     consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an ablator, a cauterizer, a drug delivery
     apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a camera,
     a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic element. For example, the functional element
     250a of a first surgical tool 200a may include a cutter having fist and second blades 1010.
 .0  The functional element 250b of a second surgical tool 200b may include a heating element,
     cryogenic element, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor and/or a radiation source 1030. The
     functional element 250c of a third surgical tool 200c may include one or more EKG
     electrodes or heart defibrillator electrodes 1015, 1020. The functional element 250d or a
    fourth surgical tool 200d may include a camera 1025.
  5
             FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an articulating surgical tool. A surgical tool 200 may
    include a tool handle 205, a surgical tool shaft 215, 220 having an articulation region 235 and
    a functional element 250.
             The surgical tool 200 may be constructed and arranged to be controlled via a surgical
  0 tool handle 205. The surgical tool handle 205 may include one selected from the group
    consisting of: scissor handles, a palm-held grip, a thumb/index/middle finger grip and a pistol
    grip. For example, in the embodiment shown in FIG. 2, the surgical tool handle 205 includes
    first and second actuating handle elements 206a, 206b that are coupled at a ball mechanism
    2 11 and a handle link mechanism 207. The handle link mechanism 207 may include first and
25  second links 207a, 207c that are coupled at a link body 207b.
             In this exemplary embodiment, the surgical tool includes a ball mechanism 2 11 that is
    constructed and arranged to be coupled to a socket mechanism 212 for manipulating or
    otherwise controlling the functions and movement of the surgical tool 200. Although not
    shown, one or more articulation cables 410 may be secured to the ball mechanism 2 11, and
30  one or more actuating cables 420 may be secured to the link body 207b of the handle link
    mechanism 207. In this manner, a movement of the ball mechanism 2 11 with respect to the
    socket mechanism 212 can provide tension or slack on one or more of the articulation cables
    410 secured to the ball mechanism 2 11, thereby adjusting an articulation state of articulation
                                                    -19-

     region 235. In addition, a scissoring movement of the first and second actuating handle
     elements 206a, 206b can cause the link body 207b of the link mechanism 207 to extend
     outwardly (e.g., along the longitudinal axis) from the ball mechanism 2 11, thereby applying a
     tension on the one or more actuating cables 410.
  5            The surgical tool shaft 215, 220 may include a first tool shaft 2 15 and second tool
     shaft 220. A proximal end 2 15p of the first tool shaft 215 may be coupled to the tool handle
     205, for example, via the ball and socket mechanisms 2 11, 212, and a distal end 215d of the
     first tool shaft 215 may be coupled to a proximal end 220p of the second tool shaft 220. A
     distal end 220d of the second tool shaft 220 may be directly coupled to the articulation region
 0   235 or indirectly coupled to the articulation region 235. For example, in the embodiments
     shown in FIGs. 2 and 3A, the distal end 220d of the second tool shaft 220 is coupled to the
     articulation region 235 through an optional cable transitioning segment 225.
              Although the articulation region 235 is shown at a distal end 230 of the surgical tool
     200, the articulation region 235 may be provided at any position between the functional
 5   element 250 and the proximal end 215p of the first tool shaft 215.
              The articulation region 235 may be constructed and arranged to support a force of
     approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately       12 inch. In some
     embodiments, the articulation region 235 is constructed and arranged to support a force of
     approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately % inch when in a fully
 O   articulated state.
              Referring to FIGs. 3A and 3B, the cable transitioning segment 225 may include at
    least one articulation cable channel 226. For example, the at least one articulation cable
    channel 226 may include first through fourth articulation cable channels 226 that are spaced
    900 apart around the circumference or perimeter of the cable transitioning segment 225. At
25  least two articulation cable channels 226a, 226c of the cable transitioning segment 225 may
    be aligned with at least two articulation cable channels 313a, 313c of a first segment link 236
    of the articulation region 235 and/or at least two articulation cable channels 353a, 353c of a
    second segment link 237 of the articulation region 235. In this manner, one or more
    articulation cables 410 can be positioned within the cable channels 313a, 313c, 353a, 353c of
30  the first and second segment links 236, 237.
              In some embodiments, the cable transitioning segment 225 may include n number of
    articulation cable channels 226, where n is a real number greater than 0. For cases where n is
                                                   - 20-

     greater than 1, the n number of articulation cable channels 226 may be evenly spaced apart
     around the circumference or perimeter of the cable transitioning segment 225 or it may not.
             The cable transitioning segment 225 may include an actuation cable channel 227. The
     actuation cable channel 227 may be positioned at a diametric midpoint of the cable
  5 transitioning segment 225, and may be aligned with one or more actuation cable channels 314,
     354 of one or more segment links 236, 237 of the articulation region 235. In this manner, one
    or more actuation cables 420 can be positioned within the cable channels 3 14, 354 of the first
    and second segment links 236, 237.
             The cable transitioning segment 225 may include a material selected from the group
  0 consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a
    liquid-crystal polymer, polytetrafluoroethylene, and a combination of these materials or other
    suitable material.
             Referring to FIG. 3B, the cable transitioning segment 225 and/or the surgical tool
    shaft 220 may comprise a lumen extrusion 225a positioned within a wire coil 225b, such as a
  5 flat wire coil or spring. The wire coil 225b may increase a stiffness of the cable transitioning
    segment 225 and/or the surgical tool shaft 220 so as to prevent twisting and/or kinking of the
    surgical tool 200. The wire coil 225b may further increase a radial stiffness of the cable
    transitioning segment 225 and/or the surgical tool shaft 220 so as to prevent a radial collapse
    of tool shaft and/or to prevent pinching the cables 410, 420. A tool shaft cover 225c such as
 .0 a Pebax@-type shaft cover may be provided to cover the wire coil 225b.
             Referring back to FIG. 2, the first tool shaft 215 may include a rigid tool shaft and the
    second tool shaft 220 may include a flexible tool shaft; however, the tool shafts 215, 220 of
    the surgical tool 200 may both include rigid or flexible tool shafts. That is, the first and
    second tool shafts 215, 220 of the surgical tool 200 may include any combination of rigid and
25  flexible tool shafts.
             The flexible tool shafts 215, 220 may include a lumen guiding member having at least
    one cable channel. In some embodiments, the at least one cable channel includes an
    actuating cable channel and at least one articulation cable channel. The actuating cable
    channel may be positioned at a diametric midpoint of the flexible tool shaft, and the at least
30  one articulation cable channel may be positioned along a circumference or perimeter of the
    flexible tool shaft portion. For example, the lumen guiding member may include a five
    lumen stiffening rod having an actuating cable channel and first through fourth articulation
    cable channels.
                                                   - 21 -

             The lumen guiding member may include a material selected from the group consisting
     of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal
    polymer, polytetrafluoroethylene, and a combination of these materials or other suitable
    material.
  5          The functional element 250 of the surgical tool 200 may be provided at the distal end
     230 of the surgical tool 200.   The functional element 250 may include one or more selected
     from the group consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an ablator, a cauterizer, a
     drug delivery apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood
     sensor, a camera, a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic element. For example, in the
 0   embodiments shown at FIGs. 2 and 3, the functional element 250 includes a grasper having
    first and second grasping members 244a, 244b. The grasper may be constructed and arranged
    to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF- The grasper may be further constructed and
    arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF when the articulation region is
    positioned in a fully articulated state. The grasper may be further constructed and arranged to
 5  apply a substantially similar grasping force throughout all articulation states of the
    articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 so that the operation of the grasper, or other
    type of functional element 250, is substantially maintained throughout the range of
    articulation of the surgical tool 200.
             The surgical tool 200 may include a locking device that is constructed and arranged to
 0  lock an articulated position of the functional element 250. The surgical tool may further
    include a locking device that is constructed and arranged to lock an operational mode of the
    functional element 250. For example, the locking device can be constructed and arranged to
    lock the articulation state of the surgical tool 200, 200a-b and/or grasping state of the
    functional element 250 (e.g., opened, closed, partially closed).
25           The surgical tool 200 may be constructed and arranged to provide a cavity path for
    entry of a second surgical tool, such as a laser fiber or other elongate tool. For example, the
    functional element of a first surgical tool may include a first tool sheath cavity and the tool
    shaft of the first surgical tool may include a second tool sheath cavity. In this manner, a
    second surgical tool may be slidably positioned within the cavity path of the first surgical tool.
30          For example, referring to FIG. 1A, the first surgical tool 200a may be configured as a
    surgical tool sheath. The surgical tool sheath may have a sheath opening 165a formed at a
    distal end of the surgical tool 200a. A second surgical tool may be slidably positioned within
                                                    - 22 -

     a cavity path of the first surgical 200a so that a functional element of the second surgical can
     extend outward from the sheath opening 165 a.
              FIGs. 3A and 3B are perspective views of a distal end of the articulating surgical tool
     illustrated at FIG. 2. The articulation region 235 of the tool shaft may include a single
  5  segment link 236 or237 or at least two segment links 236, 237. For example, in the
     embodiments shown at FIGs. 2, 3A and 3B, the articulation region 235 includes first through
    sixth segment links 236a-e, 237. The segment links 236, 236a-e, 237 may each be unitary in
    form, or may each be constructed of multiple portions of material that are bonded or coupled
    together.
 L0           A first segment link 236, 236e of the at least two segment links may be coupled
    directly or indirectly to the tool shaft 215, 220. For example, the first segment link 236, 236e
    of the at least two segment links 236, 237 may be coupled to the second tool shaft 220 via the
    cable transitioning segment 225, which may distribute multiple cables (e.g., one or more
    actuating cables 420 and/or one or more articulation cables 410) from the tool shaft 215, 220
 .5 to the channels of the segment links 236, 237.
              A second segment link 237 of the at least two segment links 236, 237 may be coupled
    to the functional element 250. However, as described above, the articulation region 235 may
    be provided at any position between the functional element 250 and the proximal end 215p of
    the first tool shaft 215. For example, the first segment link 236, 236e of the at least two
  0 segment links 236, 237 may be coupled directly or indirectly to the first tool shaft 215, and a
    second segment link 237 of the at least two segment links may be coupled directly or
    indirectly to the second tool shaft 220.
              The second segment link 237 may be coupled to the functional element 250. For
    example, the second segment link 237 may be coupled to a connection link 241 of the
25  functional element 250. The connection link 241 may include a material selected from the
    group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl
    chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
              The functional element 250 may include an-actuating piston 242 positioned within an
    inner cavity of the connection link 241 . The actuation piston 242 may include a material
30  selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
    polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
              The functional element 250 may further include first and second actuation link
    members 243a-b coupled to the actuating piston 242. The first and second actuation link
                                                    - 23 -

     members may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
     thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
              The functional element 250 may further include first and second claw members or
     grasper members 244a-b, which can be respectively coupled to the first and second actuation
  5  link members 243 a-b. The first and second claw members or grasper members 244a-b may
     include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic
    polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer, a combination of
    these materials or other suitable material.
              In the embodiment shown in FIG. 3A, linear movement of the actuating piston 242
 0  within the inner cavity of the connection link 241 can cause the first and second claw
    members or grasper members 244a-b to open and close. The opening and closing of the first
     and second claw members or grasper members 244a-b may be in response to a tension
    applied to an actuating cable 420 coupled to the actuating piston 242. The actuating cable
    420 may include one or more selected from the group consisting of: a metal cable, a plastic
 5  cable, a sold wire cable, a braided cable and a stainless steel wire braided cable.
             Although the articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 shown in FIGs. 3A and
    3B illustrate a plurality of segment links 236, 237 having convex body portions 312, 352 (e.g.,
    semi-ellipsoidal body portions, semi-spherical body portions) being oriented in a directing
    facing away from the functional element 250, the surgical tool 200 can be configured to
 0  include an articulation region 235 having a plurality of segment links 236, 237 having convex
    body portions 312, 352 (e.g., semi-ellipsoidal body portions, semi-spherical body portions)
    oriented in a direction facing the functional element 250 as shown in FIG. 6A.
             In some embodiments, alternating convex body portions 312, 352 of the segment links
    236, 237 may be constructed and arranged to have different coefficients of friction when
25  mated with corresponding concave cavity portions of adjacent segment links 236. For
    example, alternating convex body portions 312, 352 of the segment links 236, 237 may
    include different materials and/or coatings to adjust and/or alter the coefficient of friction
    when mated with corresponding concave cavity portions of adjacent segment links 236.
             FIG. 4A is a top perspective view of segment links of the articulating surgical tool
30  illustrated at FIG. 3, FIG. 4B is a bottom perspective view of segment links of the
    articulating surgical tool illustrated at FIG. 3, and FIG. 4C is a cross-sectional perspective
    view of the segment links illustrated at FIG. 4B.
                                                    -24-

            The first segment link 236, 236a-e may include a body having a first portion 310 and
    a second portion 312. The first portion 3 10 may include a cylindrical body portion or a body
   portion having an elliptical cross-section, and the second portion 312 may include a convex
   body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body portion.
 5          In a case where the second portion 3 12 includes a semi-spherical body portion, the
   semi-spherical body portion may include an outer surface having a spherical radius SRI
   ranging between 1/20 of an inch and 1/4 of an inch. For example, the spherical radius SRI
   may be about 1/20 of an inch.
           Referring to FIG. 3, a semi-spherical body portion of the first segment link 236 may
 0 mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the cable transitioning segment 225 and/or the
   tool shaft 215, 220.
           Referring back to FIGs. 4A-4C, the first segment link 236, 236a-e may include at
   least one articulation cable channel 313, 313a-d. The at least one articulation cable channel
   313, 313a-d may include a first opening in an upper surface 311 of the first portion 310 and a
 5 second opening in a bottom surface 3 15 of the first portion 3 10. For example, in the
   embodiments shown at FIGs. 4A-4C, the at least one articulation cable channel 313, 313a-d
   may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 313a-d that are spaced 900 apart
   around the circumference or perimeter of the first portion 310. The at least one articulation
   cable channel 313, 313a-d may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels
 0 3 13a-d that are positioned 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to
   a center axis of the first portion 310.
           The first segment link 236, 236a-e may include an actuation cable channel 314. The
   actuation cable channel 314 may include a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi
   spherical body portion of the first segment 236, 236a-e and a second opening at a diametric
25 midpoint of the first portion 310 of the first segment 236, 236a-e.
           The actuation cable channel 3 14 may include an upper taper 319joined at the first
   opening that conforms the first opening with a cylindrical cavity 3 18 of the body of the first
   segment 236, 236a-e. The upper taper includes a draft angle    <xi, which can range between 0'
   and 45'. The cylindrical cavity 3 18 may join a lower taper 3 17 of the body of the first
30 segment 236, 236a-e. The lower taper 3 17 may conform the cylindrical cavity 318 with a
   concave cavity or a semi-spherical cavity 316 of the body of the first segment 236, 236a-e.
   The lower taper includes a draft angle a 2, which can range between 0' and 45'. The actuation
   cable channel 314 may include an upper taper 319 and/or a lower taper 317 to prevent
                                                  -25-

   pinching of an actuation cable 420 positioned within the actuation cable channel 314 during
    articulation states of the articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200.
             The semi-spherical cavity 316 of the body of the first segment 236, 236a-e may
    include an inner surface having a spherical radius SR3 ranging between 1/20 of an inch and
 5   1/4 of an inch. For example, the spherical radius SR3 may be about 1/20 of an inch. The
   spherical radius SR3 may be substantially similar to or greater than a spherical radius SRI,
    SR2 of the first and second segment links 236, 237 so that a semi-spherical body portion of
   one of the first and second segment links 236, 237 can mate with a semi-spherical cavity
   portion of another first segment link.
 0           The second segment link 237 may include a body having a first portion 350 and a
   second portion 352. The first portion 350 may include a cylindrical body portion or a body
   portion having an elliptical cross-section, and the second portion 352 may include a convex
   body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body portion.
             In the case where the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion, the semi
 5 spherical body portion may include an outer surface having a spherical radius SR2 ranging
   between 1/20 of an inch and 1/4 of an inch. For example, the spherical radius SR2 may be
   about 1/20 of an inch.
             Referring to FIG. 3A, the semi-spherical body portion of the second segment link 237
   may mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion 316 of the first segment link 236.
 o           Referring back to FIGs. 4A-4C, the second segment link 237 may include at least one
   articulation cable channel 353, 353a-d. The at least one articulation cable channel 353, 353a
   d may include a first opening in an upper surface 351 of the first portion 350 and a second
   opening in a bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350. For example, in the embodiments
   shown at FIGs. 4A-4C, the at least one articulation cable channel 353, 353a-d may comprise
Z5 first through fourth articulation cable channels 353a-d that are spaced 900 apart around the
   circumference or perimeter of the first portion 350. The at least one articulation cable
   channel 353, 353a-d may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 353a
   d that positioned 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center
   axis of the first portion 350.
 0          Referring to FIG. 3A, at least two articulation cable channels 313, 313a-d of the first
   segment link 236, 236a-e may be aligned with at least two articulation cable channels 353,
   353a-d of the second segment link 237 so as to provide a cable channel for the insertion of
   one or more articulation cables 410.
                                                   - 26 -

             Referring back to FIGs. 4A-4C, the second segment 237 may include an actuation
    cable channel 354. The actuation cable channel 354 may include a first opening at a
    diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body portion of the second segment 237 and a
    second opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion 350 of the second segment 237.
 5           The actuation cable channel 354 may include an upper taper 359 joined at the first
   opening that conforms the first opening with a first cylindrical cavity 358 of the body of the
   second segment 237. The upper taper 359 includes a draft angle a3 , which can range between
   0' and 45'. The first cylindrical cavity 358 may join a second cylindrical cavity 356 of the
   body of the second segment 237. The first cylindrical cavity 358 may include a bevel 358a at
 0 an interface of the first cylindrical cavity 358 and an upper surface 357 of the second
   cylindrical cavity 356. A diameter of the first cylindrical cavity 358 may be less than a
   diameter of the second cylindrical cavity 356.
             The second segment 237' may further include at least one cavity slot 360, 360a-b
   formed in the bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350 of the second segment 237'. The at
 5 least one cavity slot 360, 360a-b may include a single continuous cavity slot 360 or may
   include a first cavity slot 360a and a second cavity slot 360b. The first cavity slot 360a may
   extend from a first articulation cable channel 353 a of the at least one articulation cable
   channel to a second articulation cable channel 353b of the at least one articulation cable
   channel.
 0          A first articulation cable 410 may be positioned within the first articulation cable
   channel 353a, the first cavity slot 360a and the second articulation cable channel 353b. The
   first articulation cable 410 may be secured to a surface of the first cavity slot 360a. For
   example, the first articulation cable may be welded to the surface of the first cavity slot 360a,
   glued to the surface of the first cavity slot 360a and/or press fit within the first cavity slot
25 360a.
            The second cavity slot 360b may extend from a third articulation cable channel 353c
   of the at least one articulation cable channel to a fourth articulation cable channel 353d of the
   at least one articulation cable channel. A second articulation cable 410 may be positioned
   within the third articulation cable channel 353c, the second cavity slot 360b and the fourth
30 articulation cable channel 353d.
            The at least one cavity slot 360 may extend about an entire perimeter or
   circumference of the bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350 or cylindrical body portion
   of the second segment 237. In this manner, the second opening of the at least one articulation
                                                  -27-

     cable channel 353, 353a-d may be partially defined by the at least one cavity slot 360. At
     least one articulation cable 410 may be positioned within the at least one articulation cable
     channel 353, 353a-d, and may be secured to a surface of the at least one cavity slot 360.
              The segment links 236, 237 may include a material selected from the group consisting
 5   of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal
    polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene.      The segment links 236, 237 may be rigid. The second
     segment link 237 may include a material different from that of the first segment link 236.
              In some embodiments, a height of the second portions 312, 352 of the segment links
    236, 236a-e, 237 may be different such that an angle of articulation between one or more
0   segment links can be restricted to different angles of articulation. For example, a first
    segment link 236, 237 or a first group of segment links may be restricted to 120 to 15' per
    segment, and a second segment link 236, 237 or a second group of segment links may be
    restricted to 80 to 110 per segment.
             FIGs. 5A and 5B are perspective views illustrating articulation ranges of the
5   articulating surgical tool illustrated at FIG. 2. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool
    200 is illustrated in varying articulation states 901 a-i.
             As described above, the articulation region 235 of the tool shaft may include one or
    more segment links 236, 237. In embodiments including two or more segments links 236,
    237, each segment link 236, 237 may be sequentially coupled. In this manner, a plurality of
0   segment links 236, 237 may articulate with respect to one another.
             The segment links 236, 237 of the articulation region may be constructed and
    arranged to restrict an angle of articulation. For example, a bottom surface of a first portion
    of a first segment link may abut an upper surface of a first portion of a second segment link to
   restrict an angle of articulation with respect to a center axis of each of the first and second
5   segment links.
             In some embodiments, the angle of articulation can be restricted to 120 to 15' per
   segment 236, 237. For example, referring to the articulation state 901 f, a surgical tool 200
   including a single segment link 237 may be restricted to a maximum angle of articulation a
                                                                                                     4
   that ranges between 12' to 150. Referring to the articulation state 901e a surgical tool 200
0  including two segment links 236a, 237 may be restricted to a maximum angle of articulation
   a 5 that ranges between 240 to 30'. Referring to the articulation state 90Id, a surgical tool
   200 including three segment links 236a-b, 237 may be restricted to a maximum angle of
   articulation a 6 that ranges between 36' to 45'. Referring to the articulation state 901c, a
                                                   - 28 -

    surgical tool 200 including four segment links 236a-c, 237 may be restricted to a maximum
    angle of articulation a7 that ranges between 48' to 60'. Referring to the articulation state
    901b, a surgical tool 200 including five segment links 236a-d, 237 may be restricted to a
    maximum angle of articulation a8 that ranges between 600 to 75'. Referring to the
 5  articulation state 901a, a surgical tool 200 including six segment links 236a-e, 237 may be
    restricted to a maximum angle of articulation a9 that ranges between 72' to 90'. Referring to
    the articulation state 901 g, a surgical tool 200 including seven segment links may be
    restricted to a maximum angle of articulation uio that ranges between 84' to 105'. Referring
    to the articulation state 901h, a surgical tool 200 including nine segment links may be
 0 restricted to a maximum angle of articulation ai1 that ranges between 108' to 135'. Referring
    to the articulation state 901 i, a surgical tool 200 including twelve segment links may be
   restricted to a maximum angle of articulation a12 that ranges between 144' to 180'.
   Accordingly, an articulation state of the surgical tool 200 including n segment links may be
   restricted to a maximum angle of articulation a that ranges between (12*n)o to (15*n)o.
 5           Referring to FIGs. 6A, 6B, 7, 8A-8E and 9, the alternative segment link
    configurations illustrated therein may be readily incorporated into the articulating surgical
   tool 200 shown in FIGs. 2 and 3. For example, any one of the articulation regions 235
   illustrated in FIGs. 6A, 6B, 7, 8A-8E and 9 may replace the articulation region 235 shown in
   FIGs. 2 and 3.
 0           FIG. 6A is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
   configuration of an articulating surgical tool. As described above, the surgical tool 200 can
   be configured to include an articulation region 235 having a plurality of segment links 236,
   237 having convex body portions 312, 352 (e.g., semi-ellipsoidal body portions, semi
   spherical body portions) oriented in a direction facing the functional element 250 as shown in
25 FIG. 6A. The segment links 236, 237 shown in FIG. 6A may be substantially similar to the
   segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 3 and 4A-4C and are indicated as having like
   reference characters.
             FIG. 6B is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
   configuration of an articulating surgical tool, and FIG. 6C is a sectional view of the third
 0 segment links illustrated in FIG. 6B. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 may
   include a first segment link 237, one or more second segment links 610a-b, and one or more
   third segment links 6 1la-b. For example, in the embodiment shown in FIG. 6B, the
                                                     - 29 -

     articulation region 235 includes a first segment link 237, two (2) second segment links 610a
     b and two (2) third segment links 6 1 la-b.
              The first segment link 237 may be similar to the distal segment link 237 shown in
     FIGs. 4A-4C, and may be coupled to the functional element 250. However, as described
  5  above, the articulation region 235 may be provided at any position between the functional
     element 250 and the proximal end 2 15p of the tool shaft 215 (see for example FIG. 2).
             At least one second segment link 6 1la-b may be coupled directly or indirectly to the
    tool shaft 215, 220. For example, the second segment 6 1 lb may be coupled to the second
    tool shaft 220 via the cable transitioning segment 225, which may distribute multiple cables
  0 (e.g., one or more actuating cables 420 and/or one or more articulation cables 4 10) from the
    tool shaft 215, 220 to channels 612a-b, 616a-b of the segment links 610a-b, 6 1la-b, 237.
             At least one third segment link 6 1la-b may be coupled between the first segment link
    237 and one of the second segment links 610a-b. For example, in the embodiment shown in
    FIG. 6B, the third segment link 6 11 a is coupled between the first segment 237 and the second
  5 segment link 61 Oa, and the third segment link 6 11 b is coupled between the second segment
    link 610a and the second segment link 6 1Ob.
              The second segment link 61 Oa-b may include a body 620 having first and second
    concave cavities 621 a-b formed at opposite end surfaces of the body 620. The first and
    second concave cavities 62 la-b may include semi-ellipsoidal cavities or semi-spherical
 ,0 cavities. In an embodiment having semi-spherical cavities, the semi-spherical cavities may
    have spherical radii that match spherical radii of semi-spherical body portions of the third
    segment links 6 11 a-b.
             The first concave cavity 621a may join a first taper 613 of the body 620 of the second
    segnient link 61 Oa-b, and the first taper 613 may conform the first concave cavity 621 a to a
25  first opening of a cylindrical cavity 614. The second concave cavity 621b may join a second
    taper 615 of the body 620 of the second segment link 610a-b, and the second taper 615 may
    conform the second concave cavity 621b to a second opening of the cylindrical cavity 614.
    In this manner, an actuation cable channel may be formed within the body 620 of the second
    segment link 61 Oa-b, extending from the first concave cavity 621 a to the second concave
30  cavity 621b. In addition, the first and second tapers 613, 615 may prevent pinching of an
    actuation cable 420 positioned within the actuation cable channel of the second segment link
    610a-b during articulation states of the articulation region 235.
                                                   -30-

             The third segment link 6 1 la-b may include a body having a first convex body portion
    623a, a second body portion 622, and a third convex body portion 623b. The first and third
    body portions 623 a-b may include semi-ellipsoidal body portions or semi-spherical body
    portions, and the second body portion 622 may include a cylindrical body portion.
 5           The third segment link 61 la-b may include a first taper 617joined at a first opening in
    the first convex body portion 623 a. The first taper 617 may conform the first opening in the
    first convex body portion 623 a to a cylindrical cavity 6 18 of the third segment 6 1la-b.  The
    third segment link 6 1la-b may include a second taper 619 joined at a second opening in the
    second convex body portion 623b. The second taper 619 may conform the second opening in
 0  the second convex body portion 623b to the cylindrical cavity 6 18 of the third segment 6 1 la
   b. In this manner, an actuation cable channel may be formed within the body of the third
    segment link 6 1 la-b, extending from the first opening in the first convex body portion 623a
   to the second opening in the second convex body portion 623b. In addition, the first and
    second tapers 617, 619 may prevent pinching of an actuation cable 420 positioned within the
 5  actuation cable channel of the third segment link 61 la-b during articulation states of the
    articulation region 235.
             As described above with reference to the segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 4A
   4C, the second and third segment links 610a-b, 6 1 la-b may likewise include at least one
    articulation cable channel 612a-b, 616a-b. The at least one articulation cable channel 612a-b,
 0  616a-b may include a first opening in a first surface 624, 626 of the bodies of the second and
   third segment links 610a-b, 6 1la-b, and a second opening in a second surface 625, 627 of the
   bodies of the second and third segment links 610a-b, 6 1la-b. For example, in the
   embodiments shown at FIG. 6B, the at least one articulation cable channel of the second and
   third segment links 610a-b, 6 1la-b may comprise first through fourth articulation cable
25 channels that are spaced 90' apart around the circumference or perimeter of the bodies of the
   second and third segment links 610a-b, 6 1la-b. The at least one articulation cable channel
   may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that are positioned 900
   apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the second and
   third segment links 6 1Oa-b, 6 1la-b.
30           FIG. 7 is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
   an articulating surgical tool. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 may include
   a first segment link 701 and one or more second segment links 702a-b. For example, in the
                                                   -31 -

    embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the articulation region 235 includes a first segment link 701
    and two (2) second segment links 702a-b.
             The first segment link 701 may include a body 704 and a protrusion 703. The body
    704 may include a body having an elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body, and the
 5 protrusion 703 may include an elliptical protrusion or a cylindrical protrusion. For example,
    in the embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the first segment link 701 is shown having a cylindrical
   body and a cylindrical protrusion. A diameter of the body 704 may be greater than a
    diameter of the protrusion 703.
             The first segment link 701 may include at least one cavity slot 7 1la-b formed in a
 0 bottom surface 7 10 of the body 704. The at least one cavity slot 7 11 a-b may be similar to the
    at least one cavity slot 360, 360a-b formed in the bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350
    of the second segment 237 shown in FIG. 4B. The at least one cavity slot may include a
    single continuous cavity slot (not shown), such as the single continuous cavity slot 360
   shown in FIG. 4B or may include a first cavity slot 7 11 a and a second cavity slot 7 11b as
 5 shown in FIG. 7.
             The second segment link 702a-b may include a body 706 and a protrusion 705. The
   body 706 may include a body having an elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body, and the
   protrusion 705 may include an elliptical protrusion or a cylindrical protrusion. For example,
   in the embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the second segment link 702a-b is shown having a
 0 cylindrical body and a cylindrical protrusion. A diameter of the body 706 may be greater
   than a diameter of the protrusion 705.
             The second segment link 702a-b may include at least one concave cavity 707. The
   concave cavity may include a semi-ellipsoidal cavity or a semi-spherical cavity. In this
   manner, a protrusion 703, 705 of the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b may mate
25 with a concave cavity 707 of another second segment link 702a-b. For example, in the
   embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the protrusion 703 of the first segment link 701 is shown mated
   with the concave cavity 707 of the second segment link 702a, and the protrusion 705 of the
   second segment link 702a is shown mated with the concave cavity 707 of the second segment
   link 702b. In this example, the cable transitioning segment 235 includes a concave cavity
30 712, which is shown mated with a protrusion 705 of the second segment link 702b.
            As described above with reference to the segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 4A
   4C, the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b may likewise include at least one
   articulation cable channel 708a-d, 709a-d. The at least one articulation cable channel 708a-d,
                                                 -32-

    709a-d may include a first opening in a first surface of the bodies 704, 706 of the first and
    second segment links    701, 702a-b, and a second opening in a bottom surface of the bodies
    704, 706 of the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b. For example, in the embodiments
    shown at FIG. 7, the at least one articulation cable channel of the first and second segment
 5  links 701, 702a-b may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 708a-d, 709a
   d that are spaced 900 apart around the circumference or perimeter of the bodies 704, 706 of
   the first and second segment links 701 , 702a-b. The at least one articulation cable channel
   may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 708a-d, 709a-d that are
   positioned 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of
 0 the first and second segment links 701 , 702a-b.
            The first and second segment links 701, 702a-b may include actuation cable channels
   713, 714. The actuation cable channels 713, 714 may include a first opening at a diametric
   midpoint of the protrusions 703, 705 and a second opening at a diametric midpoint of the
   bottom surfaces of the bodies 704, 706. Although not shown, the first and second openings
 5 may join first and second tapers that conform the first and second openings to a cylindrical
   cavity so as to form a channel. As described above, the tapers may prevent pinching of an
   actuation cable 420 positioned within the actuation cable channels 713, 714 of the segment
   links 701, 702a-b during articulation states of the articulation region 235.
            FIG. 8A is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
 0 an articulating surgical tool. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool may include a
   first segment link 801, one or more second segment links 802, and a third segment link 803.
            The first segment link 801 may include a body having a first body portion 801a and a
   second body portion 801b. The first body portion 801a may include a body portion having an
   elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body portion, and the second body portion 801b may
25 include a convex body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body
   portion. The first segment link may be similar to the distal segment link 237 shown in FIGs.
   4A-4C.
            The second segment links 802 may include a first body portion 802a, a second body
   portion 802b, and a plurality of protruding posts 802c extending from a surface of the first
30 body portion 802a.     The first body portion 802a may include a body portion having an
   elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body portion, and the second body portion 802b may
   include a convex body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body
                                                  -33-

    portion. The posts 802c may include cylindrically shaped posts, and may have rounded or
    beveled top surfaces.
             The third segment link 803 may include a first body portion 803a and a plurality of
    protruding posts 802c extending from a surface of the third body portion 803 a. The posts
 5  803b may include cylindrically shaped posts, and may have rounded or beveled top surfaces.
             The second body portion 801b of the first segment 801 may mate with the plurality of
   posts 802c of the second segment 802, and the second body portion 802b of the second
    segment link 802 may mate with the plurality of posts 803b of the third segment 803. In this
    manner, friction may be reduced at the interface between the second body portion 801b of the
 0  first segment link 801 and the posts 802c of the second segment link 802, and the interface
   between the second body portion 802b of the second segment link 802 and the posts 803b of
   the third segment link 803.
            As described above with reference to the segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 4A
   4C, the second and third segment links 802, 803 may likewise include at least one articulation
 5  cable channel 804a-b, 805a-b. For example, in the embodiments shown at FIG. 8A, the at
   least one articulation cable channel of the second and third segment links 802, 803 may
   comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced 900 apart around the
   circumference or perimeter of the bodies 802a, 803a of the second and third segment links
    802, 803. The at least one articulation cable channel may also comprise first through fourth
 0 articulation cable channels that are positioned 90' apart from one another along a common
   radial path relative to a center axis of the second and third segment links 802, 803.
            The second and third segment links 802, 803 may include actuation cable channels
   804c, 805c. The actuation cable channels 804c, 805c may be positioned at a diametric
   midpoint of the second and third segment links 802, 803.
25          FIGs. 8B-8E illustrate alternative post configurations in accordance with the
   alternative segment link configuration shown in FIG. 8A.
            FIG. 8B is a perspective view of a segment link, and FIG. 8C is a top view of the
   segment link illustrated in FIG. 8B. As described above, the second and third segment links
   802, 803 may include a plurality of posts 802c, 803b. The plurality of posts 802c, 803b may
30 be arranged along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the second and third
   segment links 802, 803, and may be spaced apart by a common distance. For example, in the
   embodiment shown in FIGs. 8B and 8C, the plurality of posts 802c, 803b include first
   through forth posts. The plurality of posts 802c, 803b may have a common height.
                                                  -34-

            FIG. 8D is a perspective view of a segment link, and FIG. 8E is a top view of the
   segment link illustrated in FIG. 8D. As described above, the second and third segment links
    802, 803 may include a plurality of posts 802c, 803b. The plurality of posts 802c, 803b may
   be arranged along a common radial path relative to a center post 802x, 803x of the second
 5 and third segment links 802, 803, and may be spaced apart by a common distance. For
   example, in the embodiment shown in FIGs. 8D and 8E, the plurality of posts 802c, 803b
   include first through fourth posts. The first through fourth posts are arranged along a
   common radial path relative to the center post 802x, 803x. In this exemplary configuration,
   the plurality of posts 802c, 803b arranged about the center posts 802x, 803x and may each
 0 have a first height greater than a second height of the center post 802x, 803x.
            FIG. 9 is a perspective view illustrating alternative segment links of an articulating
   surgical tool. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool may include a first segment link
   901 and one or more second segment links 902a-b.
            The first segment link 901 may be similar to the distal segment link 237 shown in
 5 FIGs. 4A-4C, and the second segment links 902a-b may be similar to the first segment link
   236 shown in FIGs. 4A-4C. However, instead of including a concave cavity 316 as shown in
   FIGs. 4A-4C, the second segment links 902a-b may include an elliptical or circular opening
   906 formed in the bottom surface 905 of the second segment links 902a-b. The opening 906
   may have a diameter less than twice the spherical radius of the convex body portions of the
 0 first and second segments 901 , 902a-b so that when mated, the convex body portions of the
   first and second segment 901, 902a-b partially protrude within the opening 906.
           While the present inventive concepts have been particularly shown and described
   above with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those of
   ordinary skill in the art, that various changes in form and detail can be made without
25 departing from the spirit and scope of the present inventive concepts described and defined
   by the following claims.
                                                  -35-

CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A system for performing a medical procedure comprising:
        an articulating probe including inner and outer sleeves; and
        a surgical tool including a functional element positioned at a distal end of a tool shaft,
the tool shaft having an articulation region,
        wherein the articulating probe and the surgical tool are independently controllable.
2.      The system of claim 1, wherein the articulating probe is constructed and arranged to
be controlled via a human interface device.
3.      The system of claim 2, wherein the human interface device includes one selected from
the group consisting of: a haptic controller, a joystick, a track ball, a mouse and an
electromechanical device.
4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the surgical tool is constructed and arranged to be
controlled via a surgical tool handle.
5.      The system of claim 4, wherein the surgical tool handle includes one selected from
the group consisting of: scissor handles, a palm-held grip, a thumb/index/middle finger grip
and a pistol grip.
6.      The system of claim 1, wherein the articulating probe further includes at least one
working channel having an opening at a working surface of the articulating probe, the
working surface being at a distal end of the articulating probe.
7.      The system of claim 6, wherein a portion of the tool shaft is positioned within the at
least one working channel.
8.      The system of claim 7, wherein the functional element of the surgical tool extends
outwardly from the opening.

9.      The system of claim 8, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
10.     The system of claim 8, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate with respect to an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
11.     The system of claim 9, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate between 00 and 900 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
12.     The system of claim 9, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate between 00 and 1350 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
13.     The system of claim 9, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate between 00 and 1800 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
14.     The system of claim 1, wherein the outer sleeve of the articulating probe includes at
least one side port.
15.     The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one side port includes a side port lock.
16.     The system of claim 15, wherein the side port lock includes a pneumatic lock.
17.     The system of claim 16, wherein the pneumatic lock includes a solenoid.
18.     The system of claim 16, wherein the pneumatic lock includes an expandable pouch.
19.     The system of claim 15, wherein the side port lock includes a hydraulic lock.
20.     The system of claim 19, wherein the hydraulic lock includes a solenoid.
21.     The system of claim 19, wherein the hydraulic lock includes an expandable pouch.
22.     The system of claim 15, wherein the side port lock includes an electrically activated
lock.

23.     The system of claim 22, wherein the electrically activated lock includes a solenoid.
24.     The system of claim 22, wherein the electrically activated lock includes a
piezoelectric actuator.
25.     The system of claim 15, wherein the side port lock is positioned within the at least
one side port.
26.     The system of claim 25, wherein the side port lock is constructed and arranged to
secure a tool shaft that passes through the at least one side port in a locked mode.
27.     The system of claim 25, wherein the side port lock is constructed and arranged to
allow a tool shaft to pass through the at least one side port in an unlocked mode.
28.     The system of claim 14, wherein a portion of the tool shaft passes through the at least
one side port.
29.     The system of claim 28, wherein the side port guides the tool shaft along an outer
surface of the outer sleeve.
30.     The system of claim 28, wherein the functional element of the surgical tool extends
outwardly from a working surface of the articulating probe, the working surface being at a
distal end of the articulating probe.
31.     The system of claim 30, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
32. The system of claim 30, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate with respect to an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
33.     The system of claim 31, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate between 0' and 900 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.

34.     The system of claim 31, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate between 00 and 1350 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
35.     The system of claim 31, wherein the functional element is constructed and arranged to
articulate between 00 and 1800 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
36.     The system of claim 1, wherein each of the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating
probe include a plurality of probe links.
37.     The system of claim 1, wherein the inner sleeve and the outer sleeve of the
articulating probe are independently controllable.
38.     The system of claim 37, wherein each of the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating
probe can be configured in one of a limp mode and a rigid mode.
39.     The system of claim 1, wherein the articulating probe includes at least one steering
cable.
40.     The system of claim 39, wherein the at least one steering cable terminates at a region
proximal to a distal end of the articulating probe.
41.     The system of claim 1, wherein the functional element includes one selected from the
group consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an ablator, a cauterizer, a drug
delivery apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a
camera, a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic element.
42.     The system of claim 1, wherein the functional element includes a first tool sheath
cavity and the tool shaft includes a second tool sheath cavity.
43.     The system of claim 42, wherein the surgical tool is constructed and arranged to
provide a cavity path for entry of a second surgical tool.
44.     The system of claim 43, wherein the second surgical tool includes the surgical tool of
claim 158.

45.     The system of claim 43, wherein the first tool sheath cavity and the second tool sheath
cavity are coupled to form the cavity path.
46.     The system of claim 43, wherein a region of the cavity path corresponds to the
articulation region of the tool shaft.
47.     The system of claim 1, wherein the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed
and arranged to lock an articulated position of the functional element.
48.     The system of claim 1, wherein the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed
and arranged to lock an operational mode of the functional element.
49.     The system of claim 1, wherein the functional element includes a grasper.
50.     The system of claim 49, wherein the grasper is constructed and arranged to apply a
grasping force of approximately 1 lbF.
51.     The system of claim 49, wherein the grasper is constructed and arranged to apply a
grasping force of approximately 1 lbF when the articulation region is positioned in a fully
articulated state.
52.     The system of claim 1, wherein the system is constructed and arranged to perform a
transoral robotic surgery procedure.
53.     The system of claim 1, wherein the articulation region of the tool shaft includes at
least two segment links.
54.     The system of claim 53, wherein one segment link of the at least two segment links is
unitary.
55.     The system of claim 53, wherein a first segment link of the at least two segment links
is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least
two segment links is coupled a second shaft portion of the tool shaft.

56.     The system of claim 55, wherein the functional element is coupled to the second shaft
portion.
57.     The system of claim 53, wherein a first segment link of the at least two segment links
is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least
two segment links is coupled to the functional element.
58.     The system of claim 57, wherein the articulation region of the tool shaft further
includes one or more third segment links coupled between the first segment link and the
second segment link.
59.     The system of claim 57, wherein the first segment link includes a body having a first
portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body
portion.
60.     The system of claim 57, wherein the first segment link includes a body having a first
portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a convex body portion.
61.     The system of claim 60, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-spherical body
portion.
62.     The system of claim 60, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body
portion.
63.     The system of claim 59, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
64.     The system of claim 59, wherein the semi-spherical body portion of the first segment
link mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first shaft portion.
65.     The system of claim 59, wherein the semi-spherical body portion of the first segment
link mates with a concave cavity portion of the first shaft portion.

66.      The system of claim 60, wherein the concave cavity portion is a semi-spherical cavity
portion.
67.      The system of claim 60, wherein the concave cavity portion is a semi-ellipsoidal
cavity portion.
68.      The system of claim 59, wherein the first segment link includes at least one
articulation cable channel.
69.      The system of claim 68, wherein the at least one articulation cable channel includes a
first opening in an upper surface of the first portion and a second opening in a bottom surface
of the first portion.
70.      The system of claim 69, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
71.      The system of claim 68, wherein the at least one articulation cable channel comprises
first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced 900 apart around the
circumference or perimeter of the first portion.
72.      The system of claim 68, wherein the at least one articulation cable channel comprises
first through fourth articulation cable channels that are positioned 90' apart from one another
along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the first portion.
73.      The system of claims 71 and 72, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body
portion.
74.      The system of claim 59, wherein the first segment includes an actuation cable
channel.
75.      The system of claim 74, wherein the actuation cable channel includes a first opening
at a diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body portion of the first segment and a second
opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion of the first segment.
76.      The system of claim 75, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.

77.      The system of claim 75, wherein the actuation cable channel includes an upper taper
joined at the first opening that conforms the first opening with a cylindrical cavity of the body
of the first segment.
78.      The system of claim 77, wherein the cylindrical cavity joins a lower taper of the body
of the first segment.
79.      The system of claim 78, wherein the lower taper conforms the cylindrical cavity with
a semi-spherical cavity of the body of the first segment.
 80.     The system of claim 57, wherein the second segment link includes a body having a
first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body
portion.
 81.     The system of claim 57, wherein the second segment link includes a body having a
first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a convex body
portion.
 82.     The system of claim 81, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-spherical body
portion.
 83.     The system of claim 81, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body
portion.
 84.     The system of claim 80, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
 85.     The system of claim 80, wherein the semi-spherical body portion of the second
segment link mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first segment link.
 86.     The system of claim 80, wherein the semi-spherical body portion of the second
segment link mates with a concave cavity portion of the first segment link.

87.      The system of claim 86, wherein the concave cavity portion is a semi-spherical cavity
portion.
88.      The system of claim 86, wherein the concave cavity portion is a semi-ellipsoidal
cavity portion.
89.      The system of claim 85, wherein at least two articulation cable channels of the first
segment link are aligned with at least two articulation cable channels of the second segment
link.
90.      The system of claim 80, wherein the body of the second segment link includes at least
one articulation cable channel.
91.      The system of claim 90, wherein the at least one articulation cable channel includes a
first opening in an upper surface of the first portion and a second opening in a bottom surface
of the first portion.
92.      The system of claim 91, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
93.      The system of claim 90, wherein the at least one articulation cable channel comprises
first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced 900 apart around the
circumference or perimeter of the first portion.
94.      The system of claim 90, wherein the at least one articulation cable channel comprises
first through fourth articulation cable channels that positioned 90' apart from one another
along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the first portion.
95.      The system of claims 93 and 94, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body
portion.
96.      The system of claim 80, wherein the body of the second segment includes an
actuation cable channel.

97.     The system of claim 96, wherein the actuation cable channel includes a first opening
at a diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body portion of the second segment and a
second opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion of the second segment.
98.     The system of claim 97, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
99.     The system of claim 97, wherein the actuation cable channel includes an upper taper
joined at the first opening that conforms the first opening with a first cylindrical cavity of the
body of the second segment.
 100.   The system of claim 99, wherein the first cylindrical cavity joins a second cylindrical
cavity of the body of the second segment.
 101.   The system of claim 100, wherein a diameter of the first cylindrical cavity is less than
a diameter of the second cylindrical cavity.
 102.   The system of claim 57, wherein the second segment link is coupled to the functional
element.
 103.   The system of claim 102, wherein the second segment link is coupled to a connection
link of the functional element.
 104.   The system of claim 103, wherein the connection link includes a material selected
from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
 105.   The system of claim 103, wherein the functional element includes an actuating piston
positioned within an inner cavity of the connection link.
 106.   The system of claim 105, wherein the actuation piston includes a material selected
from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.

107.    The system of claim 105, wherein the functional element further includes first and
second actuation link members coupled to the actuating piston.
108.    The system of claim 107, wherein the first and second actuation link members include
a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
109.    The system of claim 107, wherein the functional element further includes first and
second claw members respectively coupled to the first and second actuation link members.
110.    The system of claim 109, wherein the first and second claw members include a
material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
111.    The system of claim 109, wherein linear movement of the actuating piston within the
inner cavity of the connection link causes the first and second claw members to open and
close.
112.    The system of claim 111, wherein an actuating cable is coupled to the actuating
piston.
113.    The system of claim 112, wherein the actuating cable includes one selected from the
group consisting of: a metal cable, a plastic cable, a sold wire cable, a braided cable and a
stainless steel wire braided cable.
114.    The system of claims 54 and 57, wherein the at least two segment links include a
material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene.
115.    The system of claim 57, wherein the first segment link includes a material selected
from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene.
116.    The system of claim 57, wherein the second segment link includes a material different
from the first segment link.

117.     The system of claim 54, wherein a first segment link of the at least two segment links
is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least
two segment links is coupled to one of a second shaft portion of the tool shaft and the
functional element.
118.     The system of claim 57, wherein the first shaft portion of the tool shaft includes a
cable transitioning segment.
119.     The system of claim 118, wherein the cable transitioning segment includes at least
one articulation cable channel.
120.     The system of claim 119, wherein the at least one articulation cable channel
comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced 900 apart around the
circumference of the cable transitioning segment.
121.     The system of claim 120, wherein at least two articulation cable channels of the cable
transitioning segment are aligned with at least two articulation cable channels of the first
segment link.
122.     The system of claim 118, wherein the cable transitioning segment includes an
actuation cable channel.
123.     The system of claim 122, wherein the actuation cable channel is positioned at a
diametric midpoint of the cable transitioning segment.
124.     The system of claim 118, wherein the cable transitioning segment includes a material
selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer, and polytetrafluoroethylene.
125.     The system of claim 117, wherein the first shaft portion of the tool shaft includes a
flexible tool shaft portion.

126.     The system of claim 125, wherein the flexible tool shaft portion includes a lumen
guiding member having at least one cable channel.
127.     The system of claim 126, wherein the at least one cable channel includes an actuating
cable channel and at least one articulation cable channel.
128.     The system of claim 127, wherein the actuating cable channel is positioned at a
diametric midpoint of the flexible tool shaft portion, and the at least one articulation cable
channel is positioned along a circumference of the flexible tool shaft portion.
129.     The system of claim 126, wherein the lumen guiding member includes a five lumen
stiffening rod.
130.     The system of claim 126, wherein the lumen guiding member includes a material
selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer, and polytetrafluoroethylene.
131.     The system of claim 91, wherein at least one cavity slot is formed in the bottom
surface of the first portion of the second segment.
132.     The system of claim 131, wherein the at least one cavity slot includes a first cavity
slot and a second cavity slot.
133.     The system of claim 132, wherein the first cavity slot extends from a first articulation
cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel to a second articulation cable
channel of the at least one articulation cable channel.
134.     The system of claim 133, wherein a first articulation cable is positioned within the
first articulation cable channel, the first cavity slot and the second articulation cable channel.
135.     The system of claim 134, wherein the first articulation cable is secured to a surface of
the first cavity slot.

136.     The system of claim 135, wherein the first articulation cable is welded to the surface
of the first cavity slot.
137.     The system of claim 135, wherein the first articulation cable is glued to the surface of
the first cavity slot.
138.     The system of claim 135, wherein the first articulation cable is press fit within the first
cavity slot.
139.     The system of claim 133, wherein the second cavity slot extends from a third
articulation cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel to a fourth articulation
cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel.
140.     The system of claim 139, wherein a second articulation cable is positioned within the
third articulation cable channel, the second cavity slot and the fourth articulation cable
channel.
141.     The system of claim 131, wherein the at least one cavity slot extends an entire
circumference of the bottom surface of the cylindrical body portion of the second segment.
142.     The system of claim 141, wherein the second opening of the at least one articulation
cable channel is partially defined by the at least one cavity slot.
143.     The system of claim 142, wherein at least one articulation cable is positioned within
the at least one articulation cable channel, and wherein the at least one articulation cable is
secured to a surface of the at least one cavity slot.
144.     The system of claim 1, wherein the articulation region of the tool shaft includes a
plurality of segment links.
145.     The system of claim 144, wherein each segment link of the plurality of segment links
is sequentially coupled to another segment link of the plurality of segment links.

146.    The system of claim 144, wherein the plurality of segment links articulate with
respect to one another.
147.    The system of claim 144, wherein a bottom surface of a first portion of a first segment
link of the plurality of segment links abuts an upper surface of a first portion of a second
segment link of the plurality of segment links to restrict an angle of articulation with respect
to a center axis of each of the first and second segment links.
148.    The system of claim 147, wherein the angle of articulation is restricted to 120 to 15'.
149.    The system of claim 147, wherein the first portion of the first segment link includes a
cylindrical body portion and the first portion of the second segment link includes a cylindrical
body portion.
150.    The system of claim 144, wherein each segment link of the plurality of segment links
is constructed and arranged to provide 12' to 15' of articulation between the functional
element and a working surface of the articulating probe.
151.    The system of claim 144, wherein each segment link of the plurality of segment links
is constructed and arranged to provide 12' to 15' of articulation between the functional
element and a longitudinal axis of a cable transitioning segment of the tool shaft.
152.    The system of claim 144, wherein each segment link of the plurality of segment links
is constructed and arranged to provide 12' to 15' of articulation between the functional
element and an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
153.    The system of claims 1 and 144, wherein the articulation region is constructed and
arranged to support a force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than
approximately   12  inch.
154.    The system of claims 1 and 144, wherein the articulation region is constructed and
arranged to support a force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than
approximately   12  inch when in a fully articulated state.

155.    The system of claim 1, wherein the tool shaft includes a five-lumen extrusion
positioned within a wire coil.
156.    The system of claim 155 further comprising a tool shaft cover surrounding the wire
coil.
157.    The system of claim 156, wherein the tool shaft cover includes a Pebax@-type shaft
cover.
158.    A surgical tool comprising:
        a functional element positioned at a distal end of a tool shaft; and
        a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft,
        wherein the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
159.    The tool of claim 158, wherein the articulation region is positioned at the distal end of
the tool shaft between the functional element and a first portion of the tool shaft.
160.    The tool of claim 158, wherein the articulation region is positioned at a central region
of the tool shaft.
161.    The system of claim 160, wherein the articulation region is positioned between a first
portion of the tool shaft and a second portion of the tool shaft.
162.    The tool of claims 159 and 161, wherein the tool handle is coupled to a proximal end
of the first portion of the tool shaft.
163.    The tool of claim 158, wherein the articulation region includes a plurality of segment
links.
164.    The tool of claim 163, wherein each segment link of the plurality of segment links is
constructed and arranged to provide 120 to 15' of articulation between the functional element
and an axis of the tool shaft.

165.    The tool of claim 163, wherein a first segment link of the plurality of segment links is
coupled to a first portion of the tool shaft and a second segment of the plurality of segment
links is coupled to the functional element.
166.    The tool of claim 165, wherein the first segment link includes a body having a first
portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body
portion.
167.    The tool of claim 166, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
168.    The tool of claim 166, wherein the second segment link includes a body having a first
portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body
portion.
170.    The tool of claim 168, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
171.    The tool of claim 168, wherein the semi-spherical body portion of the first segment
link mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first portion of the tool shaft and
wherein the semi-spherical body portion of the second segment link mates with a semi
spherical cavity portion of the first segment link.
172.    The tool of claim 171, wherein the functional element includes a connection link
having a semi-spherical body portion that mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion the
second segment link.
173.    The tool of claim 163, wherein each of the plurality of segment links include a body
having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi
spherical body portion, and wherein each of the plurality of segment links includes at least
one articulation cable channel and an actuating cable channel.
174.    The tool of claim 173, wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
175.    The tool of claim 173 further comprising at least one articulation cable positioned
within the at least one articulation cable channel.

176.    The tool of claim 175, wherein the at least one articulation cable is secured to a distal
segment link of the plurality of segment links.
177.    The tool of claim 175, wherein a tension applied to the at least one articulation cable
causes the functional element to articulate with respect to the tool shaft.
178.    The tool of claim 173 further comprising an actuating cable positioned within the
actuating cable channel.
179.    The tool of claim 178, wherein a tension applied to the actuating cable causes the
functional element to change state.
180.    A surgical system as described in reference to the figures.
181.    A surgical tool as described in reference to the figures.
182.    A method of performing a medical procedure as described in reference to the figures.
183.    A surgical tool comprising:    a functional element positioned at a distal end of a tool
shaft; and
        a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft,
        wherein the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
184.    The tool of claim 183, wherein the articulation region includes a plurality of segment
links.
185.    The tool of claim 184, wherein a first segment link of the plurality of segment links
includes a body having first and second concave cavities formed at opposite end surfaces of
the body.
186.    The tool of claim 185, wherein the first concave cavity is a semi-spherical cavity.
187.    The tool of claim 185, wherein the first concave cavity is a semi-ellipsoidal cavity.

188.     The tool of claim 185, wherein the second concave cavity is a semi-spherical cavity.
189.     The tool of claim 185, wherein the second concave cavity is a semi-ellipsoidal cavity.
190.     The tool of claims 184 and 185, wherein a second segment link of the plurality of
segment links includes a body having first and second convex body portions formed at
opposite end surfaces of a center body portion.
191.     The tool of claim 190, wherein the first convex body portion is a semi-spherical body
portion.
192.     The tool of claim 190, wherein the first convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal
body portion.
193.     The tool of claim 190, wherein the second convex body portion is a semi-spherical
body portion.
194.     The tool of claim 190, wherein the second convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal
body portion.
195.     The tool of claim 190, wherein the center body portion is cylindrical.
196.     The tool of claim 190, wherein one of the first and second convex body portions of
the second segment link mates with one of the first and second concave cavities of the first
segment link.
197.     The tool of claim 196, wherein the other of the first and second convex body portions
of the second segment link mates with a concave cavity of the tool shaft.
198.     The tool of claim 196, wherein the other of the first and second concave cavities of
the first segment link mates with a convex body portion of a third segment link of the
plurality of segment links.

199.    The tool of claim 198, wherein the third segment link is coupled to the functional
element.
200.    The tool of claim 184, wherein a first segment link of the plurality of segment links
includes a first body having a first protrusion extending from a surface of the first body.
201.    The tool of claim 200, wherein the first body is a cylindrical body.
202.    The tool of claim 200, wherein the first body has an elliptical cross-section.
203.    The tool of claim 200, wherein the first protrusion is a cylindrical protrusion.
204.    The tool of claim 200, wherein the first protrusion has an elliptical cross-section.
205.    The tool of claims 184 and 200, wherein a second segment link of the plurality of
segment links includes a second body having a second protrusion extending from a first
surface of the second body.
206.    The tool of claim 205, wherein the second body is a cylindrical body.
207.    The tool of claim 205, wherein the second body has an elliptical cross-section.
208.    The tool of claim 205, wherein the second protrusion is a cylindrical protrusion.
209.    The tool of claim 205, wherein the second protrusion has an elliptical cross-section.
210.    The tool of claim 205, wherein the second segment link includes a concave cavity
formed in a second surface of the second body.
211.    The tool of claim 210, wherein the concave cavity is a semi-spherical cavity.
212.    The tool of claim 210, wherein the concave cavity is a semi-ellipsoidal cavity.

213.     The tool of claim 210, wherein the first protrusion of the first segment link mates with
the concave cavity of the second segment link.
214.     The tool of claim 213, wherein the first segment link is coupled to the functional
element.
215.     The tool of claim 214, wherein the second protrusion of the second segment link
mates with a concave cavity of the tool shaft.
216.     The tool of claim 184, wherein a first segment link of the plurality of segment links
includes a body having a first body portion and a second body portion.
217.     The tool of claim 216, wherein the first body portion includes a cylindrical body
portion.
218.     The tool of claim 216, wherein the first body portion includes an elliptical cross
section.
219.     The tool of claim 218, wherein the second body portion includes a convex body
portion.
220.     The tool of claim 219, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-spherical body
portion.
221.     The tool of claim 219, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body
portion.
222.     The tool of claims 184 and 216, wherein a second segment link of the plurality of
segment links includes a body having center body portion, a convex body portion coupled to
a first surface of the center body portion, and a plurality of posts extending outwardly from a
second surface of the center body portion.
223.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-spherical body
portion.

224.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body
portion.
225.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the center body portion is cylindrical.
226.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the center body portion has an elliptical cross-section.
227.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the plurality of posts are cylindrical.
228.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the plurality of posts have elliptical cross-sections.
229.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the plurality of posts include one of rounded or
beveled upper edges.
230.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the plurality of posts are arranged along a common
radial path relative to a center axis the second surface of the center body portion.
231.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the plurality of posts includes a center post and two or
more outer posts, the center post being positioned at a diametric midpoint of the second
surface.
232.     The tool of claim 231, wherein the two or more outer posts are arranged along a
common radial path relative to the center post.
233.     The tool of claim 232, wherein the outer posts are equally spaced apart.
234.     The tool of claim 231, wherein the two or more outer posts each have a first height
greater than a second height of the center post.
235.     The tool of claim 222, wherein the second body portion of the first segment link
mates with the plurality of posts extending outwardly from the second surface of the center
body portion.

236.     The tool of claim 235, wherein the convex body portion of the second segment link
mates with a plurality of posts of a third segment link of the plurality of segment links.
237.     The tool of claim 236, wherein the third segment link is coupled to the tool shaft.
238.     A system for performing a medical procedure comprising:
         an articulating probe including inner and outer sleeves; and
         a surgical tool including a functional element positioned at a distal end of a tool shaft,
the tool shaft having an articulation region,
         wherein the articulating probe and the surgical tool are independently controllable.
239.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulating probe is
constructed and arranged to be controlled via a human interface device.
240.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the human interface
device includes one selected from the group consisting of: a haptic controller, a joystick, a
track ball, a mouse and an electromechanical device.
241.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the surgical tool is
constructed and arranged to be controlled via a surgical tool handle.
242.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the surgical tool handle
includes one selected from the group consisting of: scissor handles, a palm-held grip, a
thumb/index/middle finger grip and a pistol grip.
243.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulating probe
further includes at least one working channel having an opening at a working surface of the
articulating probe, the working surface being at a distal end of the articulating probe.
244.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a portion of the tool shaft
is positioned within the at least one working channel.
245.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element of
the surgical tool extends outwardly from the opening.

246.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to the working surface of the articulating
probe.
247.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
248.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 900 with respect to the working surface
of the articulating probe.
249.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 135' with respect to the working
surface of the articulating probe.
250.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 1800 with respect to the working
surface of the articulating probe.
251.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the outer sleeve of the
articulating probe includes at least one side port.
252.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one side port
includes a side port lock.
253.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the side port lock includes
a pneumatic lock.
254.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the pneumatic lock
includes a solenoid.
255.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the pneumatic lock
includes an expandable pouch.

256.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the side port lock includes
a hydraulic lock.
257.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the hydraulic lock
includes a solenoid.
258.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the hydraulic lock
includes an expandable pouch.
259.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the side port lock includes
an electrically activated lock.
260.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the electrically activated
lock includes a solenoid.
261.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the electrically activated
lock includes a piezoelectric actuator.
262.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the side port lock is
positioned within the at least one side port.
263.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the side port lock is
constructed and arranged to secure a tool shaft that passes through the at least one side port in
a locked mode.
264.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the side port lock is
constructed and arranged to allow a tool shaft to pass through the at least one side port in an
unlocked mode.
265.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a portion of the tool shaft
passes through the at least one side port.

266.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the side port guides the
tool shaft along an outer surface of the outer sleeve.
267.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element of
the surgical tool extends outwardly from a working surface of the articulating probe, the
working surface being at a distal end of the articulating probe.
268.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to the working surface of the articulating
probe.
269. The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
270.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 900 with respect to the working surface
of the articulating probe.
271.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 1350 with respect to the working
surface of the articulating probe.
272.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 1800 with respect to the working
surface of the articulating probe.
273.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each of the inner and
outer sleeves of the articulating probe include a plurality of probe links.
274.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the inner sleeve and the
outer sleeve of the articulating probe are independently controllable.

275.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each of the inner and
outer sleeves of the articulating probe can be configured in one of a limp mode and a rigid
mode.
276.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulating probe
includes at least one steering cable.
277.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one steering
cable terminates at a region proximal to a distal end of the articulating probe.
278.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element
includes one selected from the group consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an
ablator, a cauterizer, a drug delivery apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a
pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a camera, a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic
element.
279.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims 1, wherein the functional element
includes a first tool sheath cavity and the tool shaft includes a second tool sheath cavity.
280.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the surgical tool is
constructed and arranged to provide a cavity path for entry of a second surgical tool.
281.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second surgical tool
includes the surgical tool of claim 395.
282.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein first tool sheath cavity and
second tool sheath cavity are coupled to form the cavity path.
283.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a region of the cavity path
corresponds to the articulation region of the tool shaft.
284.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the surgical tool includes
a locking device constructed and arranged to lock an articulated position of the functional
element.

285.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the surgical tool includes
a locking device constructed and arranged to lock an operational mode of the functional
element.
286.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element
includes a grasper.
287.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the grasper is constructed
and arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF.
288.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the grasper is constructed
and arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF when the articulation region is
positioned in a fully articulated state.
289.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the system is constructed
and arranged to perform a transoral robotic surgery procedure.
290.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region of
the tool shaft includes at least two segment links.
291.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein one segment link of the at
least two segment links is unitary.
292.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first segment link of the
at least two segment links is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second
segment link of the at least two segment links is coupled a second shaft portion of the tool
shaft.
293.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element is
coupled to the second shaft portion.

294.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first segment link of the
at least two segment links is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second
segment link of the at least two segment links is coupled to the functional element.
295.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region of
the tool shaft further includes one or more third segment links coupled between the first
segment link and the second segment link.
296.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first segment link
includes a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
includes a semi-spherical body portion.
297.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first segment link
includes a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
includes a convex body portion.
298.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion
is a semi-spherical body portion.
299.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion
is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
300.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
301.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the semi-spherical body
portion of the first segment link mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first shaft
portion.
302.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the semi-spherical body
portion of the first segment link mates with a concave cavity portion of the first shaft portion.
303.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the concave cavity portion
is a semi-spherical cavity portion.

304.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the concave cavity portion
is a semi-ellipsoidal cavity portion.
305.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first segment link
includes at least one articulation cable channel.
306.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
articulation cable channel includes a first opening in an upper surface of the first portion and
a second opening in a bottom surface of the first portion.
307.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
308.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
articulation cable channel comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that are
spaced 900 apart around the circumference or perimeter of the first portion.
309.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
articulation cable channel comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that are
positioned 900 apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of
the first portion.
310.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
311.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first segment includes
an actuation cable channel.
312.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuation cable
channel includes a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body portion of
the first segment and a second opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion of the first
segment.

313.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
314.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuation cable
channel includes an upper taper joined at the first opening that conforms the first opening
with a cylindrical cavity of the body of the first segment.
315.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the cylindrical cavity
joins a lower taper of the body of the first segment.
316.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the lower taper conforms
the cylindrical cavity with a semi-spherical cavity of the body of the first segment.
317.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second segment link
includes a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
includes a semi-spherical body portion.
318.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second segment link
includes a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
includes a convex body portion.
319.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion
is a semi-spherical body portion.
320.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion
is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
321.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
322.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the semi-spherical body
portion of the second segment link mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first
segment link.

323.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the semi-spherical body
portion of the second segment link mates with a concave cavity portion of the first segment
link.
324.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the concave cavity portion
is a semi-spherical cavity portion.
325.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the concave cavity portion
is a semi-ellipsoidal cavity portion.
326.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein at least two articulation
cable channels of the first segment link are aligned with at least two articulation cable
channels of the second segment link.
327.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the body of the second
segment link includes at least one articulation cable channel.
328.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
articulation cable channel includes a first opening in an upper surface of the first portion and
a second opening in a bottom surface of the first portion.
329.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
330.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
articulation cable channel comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that are
spaced 900 apart around the circumference or perimeter of the first portion.
331.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
articulation cable channel comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that
positioned 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of
the first portion.

332.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
333.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the body of the second
segment includes an actuation cable channel.
334.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuation cable
channel includes a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body portion of
the second segment and a second opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion of the
second segment.
335.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
336.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuation cable
channel includes an upper taper joined at the first opening that conforms the first opening
with a first cylindrical cavity of the body of the second segment.
337.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first cylindrical cavity
joins a second cylindrical cavity of the body of the second segment.
338.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a diameter of the first
cylindrical cavity is less than a diameter of the second cylindrical cavity.
339.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second segment link is
coupled to the functional element.
340.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second segment link is
coupled to a connection link of the functional element.
341.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the connection link
includes a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic
polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.

342.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element
includes an actuating piston positioned within an inner cavity of the connection link.
343.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuation piston
includes a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic
polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
344.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element
further includes first and second actuation link members coupled to the actuating piston.
345.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first and second
actuation link members include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal,
plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal
polymer.
346.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element
further includes first and second claw members respectively coupled to the first and second
actuation link members.
347.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first and second claw
members include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
348.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein linear movement of the
actuating piston within the inner cavity of the connection link causes the first and second
claw members to open and close.
349.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein an actuating cable is
coupled to the actuating piston.
350.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuating cable
includes one selected from the group consisting of: a metal cable, a plastic cable, a sold wire
cable, a braided cable and a stainless steel wire braided cable.

351.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least two segment
links include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic
polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer and
polytetrafluoroethylene.
352.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first segment link
includes a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic
polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer and
polytetrafluoroethylene.
353.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second segment link
includes a material different from the first segment link.
354.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first segment link of the
at least two segment links is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second
segment link of the at least two segment links is coupled to one of a second shaft portion of
the tool shaft and the functional element.
355.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first shaft portion of
the tool shaft includes a cable transitioning segment.
356.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the cable transitioning
segment includes at least one articulation cable channel.
357.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one
articulation cable channel comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that are
spaced 900 apart around the circumference of the cable transitioning segment.
358.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein at least two articulation
cable channels of the cable transitioning segment are aligned with at least two articulation
cable channels of the first segment link.
359.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the cable transitioning
segment includes an actuation cable channel.

360.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuation cable
channel is positioned at a diametric midpoint of the cable transitioning segment.
361.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims 91, wherein the cable transitioning
segment includes a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer, and
polytetrafluoroethylene.
362.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first shaft portion of
the tool shaft includes a flexible tool shaft portion.
363.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the flexible tool shaft
portion includes a lumen guiding member having at least one cable channel.
364.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one cable
channel includes an actuating cable channel and at least one articulation cable channel.
365.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the actuating cable
channel is positioned at a diametric midpoint of the flexible tool shaft portion, and the at least
one articulation cable channel is positioned along a circumference of the flexible tool shaft
portion.
366.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the lumen guiding
member includes a five lumen stiffening rod.
367.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the lumen guiding
member includes a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer, and
polytetrafluoroethylene.
368.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one cavity slot is
formed in the bottom surface of the first portion of the second segment.

369.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one cavity slot
includes a first cavity slot and a second cavity slot.
370.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first cavity slot
extends from a first articulation cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel to
a second articulation cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel.
371.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first articulation cable is
positioned within the first articulation cable channel, the first cavity slot and the second
articulation cable channel.
372.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first articulation cable
is secured to a surface of the first cavity slot.
373.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first articulation cable
is welded to the surface of the first cavity slot.
374.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first articulation cable
is glued to the surface of the first cavity slot.
375.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first articulation cable
is press fit within the first cavity slot.
376.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second cavity slot
extends from a third articulation cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel to
a fourth articulation cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel.
377.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a second articulation
cable is positioned within the third articulation cable channel, the second cavity slot and the
fourth articulation cable channel.
378.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one cavity slot
extends an entire circumference of the bottom surface of the cylindrical body portion of the
second segment.

379.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second opening of the
at least one articulation cable channel is partially defined by the at least one cavity slot.
380.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one articulation
cable is positioned within the at least one articulation cable channel, and wherein the at least
one articulation cable is secured to a surface of the at least one cavity slot.
381.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region of
the tool shaft includes a plurality of segment links.
382.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each segment link of the
plurality of segment links is sequentially coupled to another segment link of the plurality of
segment links.
383.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of segment
links articulate with respect to one another.
384.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a bottom surface of a first
portion of a first segment link of the plurality of segment links abuts an upper surface of a
first portion of a second segment link of the plurality of segment links to restrict an angle of
articulation with respect to a center axis of each of the first and second segment links.
385.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the angle of articulation is
restricted to 120 to 15'.
386.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion of the
first segment link includes a cylindrical body portion and the first portion of the second
segment link includes a cylindrical body portion.
387.     The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each segment link of the
plurality of segment links is constructed and arranged to provide 12' to 15' of articulation
between the functional element and a working surface of the articulating probe.

388.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each segment link of the
plurality of segment links is constructed and arranged to provide 120 to 15' of articulation
between the functional element and a longitudinal axis of a cable transitioning segment of the
tool shaft.
389.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each segment link of the
plurality of segment links is constructed and arranged to provide 12' to 15' of articulation
between the functional element and an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
390.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region is
constructed and arranged to support a force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more
than approximately   12 inch.
391.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region is
constructed and arranged to support a force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more
than approximately   12 inch when in a fully articulated state.
392.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the tool shaft includes a
five-lumen extrusion positioned within a wire coil.
393.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a tool shaft
cover surrounding the wire coil.
394.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the tool shaft cover
includes a Pebax@-type shaft cover.
395.    A surgical tool comprising:
        a functional element positioned at a distal end of a tool shaft; and
        a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft,
        wherein the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
396.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region is
positioned at the distal end of the tool shaft between the functional element and a first portion
of the tool shaft.

397.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region is
positioned at a central region of the tool shaft.
398.    The system of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region is
positioned between a first portion of the tool shaft and a second portion of the tool shaft.
399.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the tool handle is coupled to
a proximal end of the first portion of the tool shaft.
400.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region
includes a plurality of segment links.
401.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each segment link of the
plurality of segment links is constructed and arranged to provide 120 to 15' of articulation
between the functional element and an axis of the tool shaft.
402.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first segment link of the
plurality of segment links is coupled to a first portion of the tool shaft and a second segment
of the plurality of segment links is coupled to the functional element.
403.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first segment link
includes a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
includes a semi-spherical body portion.
404.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
405.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second segment link
includes a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
includes a semi-spherical body portion.
406.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.

407.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the semi-spherical body
portion of the first segment link mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first portion
of the tool shaft and wherein the semi-spherical body portion of the second segment link
mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first segment link.
408.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the functional element
includes a connection link having a semi-spherical body portion that mates with a semi
spherical cavity portion the second segment link.
409.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein each of the plurality of
segment links include a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second
portion includes a semi-spherical body portion, and wherein each of the plurality of segment
links includes at least one articulation cable channel and an actuating cable channel.
410.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first portion includes a
cylindrical body portion.
411.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising at least one
articulation cable positioned within the at least one articulation cable channel.
412.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one articulation
cable is secured to a distal segment link of the plurality of segment links.
413.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a tension applied to the at
least one articulation cable causes the functional element to articulate with respect to the tool
shaft.
414.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising an actuating cable
positioned within the actuating cable channel.
415.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a tension applied to the
actuating cable causes the functional element to change state.

416.    A surgical system as described in reference to the figures.
417.    A surgical tool as described in reference to the figures.
418.    A method of performing a medical procedure as described in reference to the figures.
419.    A surgical tool comprising:
        a functional element positioned at a distal end of a tool shaft; and
        a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft,
        wherein the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
420.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the articulation region
includes a plurality of segment links.
421.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first segment link of the
plurality of segment links includes a body having first and second concave cavities formed at
opposite end surfaces of the body.
422.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first concave cavity is a
        semi-spherical cavity.
423.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first concave cavity is a
        semi-ellipsoidal cavity.
424.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second concave cavity is
a semi-spherical cavity.
425.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second concave cavity is
        a semi-ellipsoidal cavity.
426.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a second segment link of the
plurality of segment links includes a body having first and second convex body portions
formed at opposite end surfaces of a center body portion.

427.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first convex body portion
        is a semi-spherical body portion.
428.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first convex body portion
is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
429.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second convex body
portion is a semi-spherical body portion.
430.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second convex body
portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
431.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the center body portion is
cylindrical.
432.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein one of the first and second
convex body portions of the second segment link mates with one of the first and second
concave cavities of the first segment link.
433.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the other of the first and
second convex body portions of the second segment link mates with a concave cavity of the
tool shaft.
434.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the other of the first and
second concave cavities of the first segment link mates with a convex body portion of a third
segment link of the plurality of segment links.
435.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the third segment link is
coupled to the functional element.
436.    The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first segment link of the
plurality of segment links includes a first body having a first protrusion extending from a
surface of the first body.

437.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first body is a cylindrical
body.
438.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first body has an
elliptical cross-section.
439.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first protrusion is a
cylindrical protrusion.
440.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first protrusion has an
elliptical cross-section.
441.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a second segment link of the
plurality of segment links includes a second body having a second protrusion extending from
a first surface of the second body.
442.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second body is a
cylindrical body.
443.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second body has an
elliptical cross-section.
444.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second protrusion is a
cylindrical protrusion.
445.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second protrusion has an
elliptical cross-section.
446.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second segment link
includes a concave cavity formed in a second surface of the second body.
447.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the concave cavity is a semi
spherical cavity.

448.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the concave cavity is a semi
ellipsoidal cavity.
449.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first protrusion of the
first segment link mates with the concave cavity of the second segment link.
450.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first segment link is
coupled to the functional element.
451.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second protrusion of the
second segment link mates with a concave cavity of the tool shaft.
452.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a first segment link of the
plurality of segment links includes a body having a first body portion and a second body
portion.
453.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first body portion
includes a cylindrical body portion.
454.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the first body portion
includes an elliptical cross-section.
455.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second body portion
includes a convex body portion.
456.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion is a
semi-spherical body portion.
457.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion is a
semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
458.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein a second segment link of the
plurality of segment links includes a body having center body portion, a convex body portion

coupled to a first surface of the center body portion, and a plurality of posts extending
outwardly from a second surface of the center body portion.
459.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion is a
semi-spherical body portion.
460.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion is a
semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
461.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the center body portion is
cylindrical.
462.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the center body portion has
an elliptical cross-section.
463.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of posts are
cylindrical.
464.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of posts have
elliptical cross-sections.
465.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of posts include
one of rounded or beveled upper edges.
466.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of posts are
arranged along a common radial path relative to a center axis the second surface of the center
body portion.
467.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of posts includes
a center post and two or more outer posts, the center post being positioned at a diametric
midpoint of the second surface.
468.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the two or more outer posts
are arranged along a common radial path relative to the center post.

469.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the outer posts are equally
spaced apart.
470.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the two or more outer posts
each have a first height greater than a second height of the center post.
471.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the second body portion of
the first segment link mates with the plurality of posts extending outwardly from the second
surface of the center body portion.
472.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the convex body portion of
the second segment link mates with a plurality of posts of a third segment link of the plurality
of segment links.
473.     The tool of at least one of the preceding claims, wherein the third segment link is
coupled to the tool shaft.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
