                                         Abstract
Presented herein are various methods for using head positioning pillows to optimize
resporatory titration. More specifically, the method includes a first step of determining
an optimal relative angle between the patient's mouth and throat at which the patient's
airway is optimally opened. The method also includes a second step of adjusting a
head positioning pillow relative to the patient's head and neck to modify and
transform the configuration of the pillow to achieve a pillow position that achieves the
optimal relative angle.

        METHODS FOR USING HEAD POSITIONING PILLOWS TO OPTIMIZE
                                  RESPIRATORY TITRATION
  5                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
              The present invention relates generally to methods for using head
    positioning pillows to optimize respiratory titration.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10           Respiratory titration is the process of adjusting the output of a respiratory
    assistive device, such as a respiratory mask attached to a positive airway pressure
    device to match the patient's needs. Users of respiratory masks often have
    difficulty resting or sleeping because pressure on the mask exerted by a pillow
    while side sleeping can impede the performance and comfort of the mask, cause
15  the mask seal to separate from the face and result in air leakage (which can cause
    irritation from the eyes drying out), and/or cause the mask to press uncomfortably
    against the user's face. Users of respiratory masks often try to compensate for
    leaks and positional problems by tightening the mask against the face more than
    otherwise required, causing further discomfort. The ultimate effect of these
20  problems is sleep interruption or non-compliance by the user (i.e., the user stops
    using the mask).
             In addition, it has also been discovered that titration processes performed in
    a clinic setting are not effective in the home, which reduces the effectiveness of the
    respiratory device. The largest variable is the pillow used by the patient. Pillows
25  supporting the head and neck can have a direct impact on the alignment of the
    patient's airway. Most pillows come in many different constructions and sizes,
    each of which will change the positioning of the head and neck relative to the
    upper body and can adversely impact the alignment of the airways and subsequent
    efficiency of air flow through the trachea, mouth, and throat.

           Further, a variety of positioning variables found in the home make it
   difficult for users of respiratory masks to maintain the salutary effects of a
   respiratory titration performed in the clinic setting. Accordingly, there remains a
   need for a device and method to be used in a clinic setting that may then be used at
 5 home.
                        BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
           Presented herein are various methods for using head positioning pillows to
   optimize respiratory titration. More specifically, the method comprises a first step
   of determining an optimal relative angle between the patient's mouth and throat at
10 which the patient's airway is optimally opened. The method also comprises a
   second step of adjusting a head positioning pillow relative to the patient's head and
   neck to modify, transform and optimize the configuration of the pillow to thereby
   achieve a pillow position that achieves the optimal relative angle.
15    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)
           Reference will now be made to the accompanying drawings, which are not
   necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:
           FIG. 1 is a side view of a patient's open airway where the patient's head
20 and neck are positioned in a generally upright position;
           FIG. 2 is a side view of a patient's closed airway where the patient's head
   and neck are lying in a generally horizontal position;
           FIG. 3 is a general process flow, according to one embodiment of the
   present invention;
25         FIG. 4 is top plan view of four embodiments of a head positioning pillow;
                                             -2-

           FIG. 5 is a perspective view of a pillow, according to one embodiment of
   the invention;
           FIG. 6 is a top plan view illustrating the pillow of FIG. 5;
           FIG. 7 is a front elevational view illustrating the pillow of FIG. 5;
 5         FIG. 8 is a right side view illustrating the pillow of FIG. 5;
           FIG. 9 is a left side view illustrating the pillow of FIG. 5;
           FIG. 10 is a rear elevational view illustrating the pillow of FIG. 5;
           FIG. 11 is a bottom plan view illustrating the pillow of FIG. 5;
           FIG. 12 is a rear view illustrating the cover for the pillow of FIG. 5;
10         FIG. 13 is a bottom plan view illustrating the cover of FIG. 12;
           FIG. 14 is a perspective view illustrating the cover of FIG. 12;
           FIG. 15 is a top plan view illustrating the cover of FIG. 12;
           FIG. 16 shows a user wearing a respiratory mask and in a back-lying
   position with his/her head supported on the pillow of FIG. 5; and
15         FIG. 17 shows a user wearing a respiratory mask and in a side-lying
   position with his/her head supported on the pillow of FIG. 5.
                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully
20 hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not
   all, embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, the invention may be
   embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the
   embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided so that this
                                              -3-

   disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Where possible, any terms
   expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form, and
   vice versa. Also, as used herein, the term "a" shall mean "one or more," even
   though the phrase "one or more" is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like
 5 elements throughout.
            In general terms, described herein are various methods for using head
   positioning pillows to modify and transform the pillow's configuration to optimize
   respiratory titration. These head positioning pillows are for use with assisted
   breathing or respiratory masks, such as continuous positive airway pressure
10 ("CPAP") masks, auto adjusting positive airway pressure ("APAP") masks, dual
   positive airway pressure ("BiPAP") masks, and demand positive airway pressure
   ("DPAP") masks, and other mask types for oxygen, etc., to facilitate resting and
   sleep. Respiratory titration, as described herein, is the process of adjusting the
   output of these and other respiratory assistive devices, such as a head positioning
15 pillow, in order to address individual patient's needs.
            Figure 1 provides an exemplary diagram 100 of a patient's airway and
   some of its features, including the patient's mouth, nostrils, hard palate, soft palate,
   and a portion of the patient's throat, which includes a nasopharnyx, oropharnyx,
   hypopharnyx, epiglottis, vocal cords, larynx, and trachea. Diagram 100 illustrates
20 how these features are positioned relative to each other when the patient's head and
   neck are positioned in a generally upright position. More specifically, diagram 100
   shows that the patient's airway is generally opened, as indicated by the continuous
   flow of gray shade extending from the nostrils and mouth down through the throat
   to the trachea.
25          Figure 2 provides an exemplary diagram 200 of a patient's closed airway
   where the patient's head and neck are lying in a generally horizontal position on a
   regular pillow 210. As shown, the patient's airway is generally closed at position
   220, which restricts the patient's ability to breathe. The methods and pillows
   described herein help patients overcome this problem.
                                             -4-

           Referring now to a method for using a head positioning pillow to optimize
   respiratory titration, Figure 3 provides an exemplary flow diagram illustrating a
   general process flow 300. As represented by block 310, the first step is to
 5 determine an optimal relative angle between the patient's mouth and throat at
   which the patient's airway is optimally opened. The next step is to adjust a head
   positioning pillow to modify and transform the configuration of the pillow relative
   to the patient's head and neck to achieve a pillow position and configuration that
   achieves the optimal relative angle, as illustrated by block 320.
10         The order of the steps described in blocks 310 and 320, in Figure 3 may
   vary. For example, in one embodiment, the step described in block 320 may occur
   before, after, or substantially simultaneous with the step described in block 310.
           In other embodiments of the present invention, general process flow 300
   may include other steps. One embodiment may divide the step represented by
15 block 320 into two or more separate steps, i.e., a step of adjusting the pillow
   relative to the patient's neck to modify and transform the configuration of the
   pillow may be separate from a step of adjusting the pillow relative to the patient's
   head. Another embodiment may include the steps of measuring the flow of air
   through the patient's airway and comparing that flow to a target flow rate. A
20 further embodiment may provide for one or more iterative steps, i.e., the step of
   repeating one or more of the other process steps to, for example, determine via trial
   and error a relative angle between the patient's mouth and throat at which air flow
   through the patient's airway is maximized.
           In many of the embodiments of general process flow 300, the head
25 positioning pillow is adjustable. Adjustable head positioning pillows directly
   impact the alignment of the patient's airway and affect the flow of air through the
   patient's trachea, throat, and mouth. Accordingly, they are particularly helpful in
   "tuning" the patient's airway alignment and efficiency during any kind of
                                             -5-

     respiratory titration process, including methods involving CPAP, BiPAP, DPAP,
     and APAP titration. These features are also helpful when used in connection with
     surgical procedures where the patient uses assisted respiration.
             In one embodiment, the pillow is height adjustable, such that a rear side, a
  5  front side, a first lateral side, and/or a second lateral side of the pillow can adjust in
    height to better align the patient's head and neck. In other embodiments, other
     features of the pillow, including a central indentation and/or a raised section, are
     adjustable to help raise or lower the patient's head and neck.
             In another embodiment of the present invention, the pillow is adjustable by
10  increasing or reducing the support of the patient's neck. For example, a section of
    the pillow that contacts the patient's neck and/or head can include a bladder in
    which air or fluid can be added or released to adjust the elevation and amount of
    support provided. In other embodiments, an indentation and/or a raised area of the
    pillow may adjust in other ways to properly align and support the patient's neck.
15           In still another embodiment of the present invention, the pillow may be
    adjustable by changing the rotation of the patient's head and/or neck position.
    Other embodiments may include a pillow that adjusts to change the incline angle of
    the patient's head and/or neck position.
             The adjustable pillows described herein are important only if used
20  correctly. More specifically, it is important that patients are able to utilize the
    optimized respiratory titration process and reconfigured pillow that is initially
    performed in a clinic setting or in the home setting, when they are away from that
    setting. By increasing the user's compliance, fewer inconsistencies are introduced
    into the patient's daily respiratory process, which creates less of a need to
25  "overcorrect" certain settings on the respiratory device to deliver the proper air
    flow. For example, many patients will correct for mask leaks by increasing the
    pressure setting on the respiratory device. By providing a configured pillow
                                                 -6-

   optimized for the patient, a patient does not need to readjust the respiratory device,
   and this helps to reduce unintended side effects.
            Referring now to Figure 4, four embodiments of a head positioning pillow
   are illustrated. Pillow 410 includes raised back section 412, raised front section
 5 414, central recess section 416, and a plurality of raised contact points 418. Pillow
   420 includes front receding edge 422, side receding edges 424 and 426, and central
   raised section 428. Pillow 430 includes side wings 432 and 434, and central raised
   section 436. Pillow 440 includes front receding edge 442, side receding edges 444
   and 446, central raised section 448, and side wings 441 and 443.
10          Other embodiments of a head positioning pillow 10 are described in
   Figures 5-17. Pillow 10 includes a pliable and resilient body 12, which can be
   formed of any suitable material, non-exhaustive examples of which include
   polymer foam, gel, fiber fill inside a casing, and fluid inside a bladder. The
   configuration of the pillow 10 may vary. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 5,
15 the pillow 10 is generally rectangular in shape and includes a rear side 14, a front
   side 16, a first lateral side 18, and a second lateral side 20. Preferably but not
   necessarily, the pillow 10 has an axis of symmetry 22 extending between the rear
   side 14 and front side 16. The pillow 10 has a width W extending between the first
   lateral side 18 and the second lateral side 20 and a length L extending between the
20 rear side 14 and the front side 16 (shown in FIG. 6). The pillow 10 includes a
   head-supporting upper surface 30 and an opposite bottom surface 32. As
   illustrated in FIG. 11, the bottom surface is relatively planar. In another
   embodiment (not shown), the bottom surface 32 may optionally include a plurality
   of ridges.
25          The body 12 includes a first portion 40 and a second portion 42 that are
   preferably formed together as a unitary member. The first portion 40 and second
   portion 42 of the body 12 are preferably fabricated from the same material, such as
   foam, fiber fill, gel, etc., that provides good support and resiliency and, optionally,
   memory properties. The body 12 could also be a form-shaped bladder (not shown)
                                               -7-

   inflated with air or liquid. The invention is not limited to any particular material
   making up the body 12.
            According to the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 5-11, the first portion 40
   and second portion 42 of the body 12 are generally rectangular in shape. The
 5 upper surface of the second body portion 42 includes a recess 34 adjacent to each
   of the first lateral side 18 and second lateral side 20 of the body 12 and a raised
   section 36 therebetween. Advantageously, as illustrated in FIG. 17, the recesses 34
   provide pressure relief on the mask when the user of the pillow 10 is resting or
   sleeping on his/her side, so that the pillow will not exert any substantial degree of
10 pressure on the mask and tubing for the mask. As illustrated in FIG. 6, one or both
   of the recesses 34 may extend into the first portion of the body 12. The recesses 34
   are adjacent to pillow surfaces that comfortably support the user's head in the side
   lying position, as further described below.
            In one embodiment, as illustrated in FIG. 6, the second portion 42 of the
15 body 12 can include an indentation 38 in the front side 16. This indentation 38
   provides a curved area for the user's shoulder to rest for proper position and neck
   support when in the side-lying position.
            The raised section 36 of the second portion 42 of the body 12 provides neck
   support for both back and side sleeping and resting. In one embodiment (not
20 shown), the raised section 36 can include a bladder in which air or fluid can be
   added or released to adjust the elevation and amount of support provided. As
   illustrated in FIG. 5, the upper surface 30 of the raised section 36 may include an
   indentation 44 with raised areas 46 on each side of the indentation.
   Advantageously, the indentation 44 receives the user's neck and the raised areas 46
25 function to retain the user's neck within the indentation while the user is resting or
   sleeping.
            In addition to recesses 34, as illustrated in FIGS. 5 and 6, the upper surface
   30 of the body 12 may include a central indentation 50. The edge of the central
                                               -8-

   indentation 50 in the first portion 40 of the body is curved and gently sloping to
   thereby provide a head support area for the user. As with the indentation 44 and
   raised areas 46 of the raised section 36, the central indentation 50 receives the
   user's head and the sloped side walls about the periphery of the central indentation
 5 function to retain the user's head within the central indentation while the user is
   resting or sleeping.
            Referring to FIG. 10, the first portion 40 of the body 12 may include raised
   areas 54 adjacent to each of the first lateral side 18 and second lateral side 20. As
   illustrated in FIG. 17, the raised areas 54 provide support to the user's forehead
10 when resting or sleeping in the side position to keep the user's head from rotating
   downward.
            Referring to FIGS. 5 and 6, on either side of and adjacent to the indentation
   44 and the central indentation 50, secondary recessed areas 56 may be provided.
   These secondary recessed areas 56 are for receiving either of the user's ears when
15 in either of the left and right side-lying positions, to help relieve excess pressure on
   the ears and thereby improve overall comfort of the user.
            In other embodiments (not shown), the pillow 10 can include other
   structure to accommodate or secure a hose for a respiratory mask. In one
   embodiment, the structure may include a routing channel or aperture formed into
20 the pillow to reduce interference with the hose.
            Typical materials of which the body 12 can be made (such as polymer
   foam, gel, fluid-filled bladders, etc.) may not be very comfortable if the skin is in
   direct contact with them, because they may not "breathe" very well. Accordingly,
   in preferred embodiments of the invention, a cover is provided for the pillow in
25 order to enhance the comfort of the pillow. Referring to FIGS. 12-15, a fitted
   cover 60 for the pillow 10 is illustrated. It is important for the cover to
   substantially conform to the contours of the pillow, and in particular to the mask
                                              -9-

   receiving recesses 34, in order for the recesses to function properly to relieve
   pressure on the mask.
            As shown in FIG. 13, the fitted cover preferably includes an opening 61 on
   the bottom side of the cover corresponding to the bottom surface of the pillow, so
 5 that the pillow may be inserted into and removed from the cover to enable cleaning
   of the cover. As shown, a zipper is provided for closing the opening 61. As
   illustrated in FIGS. 12-15 and as discussed above, the cover is preferably fitted so
   that the cover substantially follows the contours and configurations of the pillow,
   and particularly those depressions, recesses, cavities, apertures, and/or raised
10 portions that are structured to accommodate the mask or tubing for the mask. The
   cover 60 may also include structure to accommodate or secure a hose for the mask.
   In one embodiment (not shown), the structure of the cover may include one or
   more tethers to keep the hose from sliding or being positioned unfavorably. The
   cover can be sewn to fit the pillow. The cover may be made of a material that can
15 be formed to fit the contours of the pillow by pressure, heat, or other means.
   Alternatively, instead of a separately made cover that is removable, the cover may
   comprise a material permanently applied to the surface of the pillow by any of
   various techniques, such as painting, dipping, or spraying. For example, flocking
   may be sprayed onto the pillow and adhered thereto by a suitable adhesive
20 material.
            In a preferred embodiment as shown in FIGS. 12-15, the cover 60 is a fitted
   cover made from pieces of fabric sewn together. More particularly, a first fabric
   piece 62 is sized and shaped to cover the majority of the upper surface of the
   pillow except for the recesses that receive the mask. The first fabric piece also
25 drapes down over the opposite lateral sides of the pillow (except in the regions of
   the recesses). A second fabric piece 64 is sized and shaped to cover the front side
   and is sewn to the first fabric piece along a seam 66. Third, fourth, and fifth fabric
   pieces 68a, 68b, 68c are sized and shaped to cover the steeply sloped walls of the
   left-hand recess of the pillow, and a sixth fabric piece 70 is sized and shaped to
                                            - 10 -

   cover the bottom wall of that recess. The fabric pieces 68a-c are sewn to the first
   fabric piece 62 along seams 72. The sixth fabric piece 70 is sewn to the fabric
   pieces 68a-c along seams 74.
            Seventh, eighth, and ninth fabric pieces 76a, 76b, 76c are sized and shaped
 5 to cover the steeply sloped walls of the right-hand recess of the pillow, and a tenth
   fabric piece 78 is sized and shaped to cover the bottom wall of that recess. The
   fabric pieces 76a-c are sewn to the first fabric piece 62 along seams 80. The fabric
   pieces 76a-c are sewn to the tenth fabric piece 78 along seams 82. An eleventh
   fabric piece 84 (FIG. 12) is sized and shaped to cover the rear side of the pillow
10 and is sewn to the first fabric piece 62 along a seam 86. Finally, twelfth and
   thirteenth fabric pieces 88, 89 (FIG. 13) are sized and shaped to cover the bottom
   surface of the pillow and are sewn to the eleventh fabric piece 84 along a seam 90,
   to the second fabric piece 64 along a seam 92, to the opposite edges of the first
   fabric piece 62 along seams 94, and to the sixth and tenth fabric pieces 70, 78
15 along seams 96.
           Various types of fabric (woven, knitted, non-woven, etc.) made from
   various fiber types (natural, synthetic, natural/synthetic blends, etc.) can be used to
   make the sewn cover 60. In one embodiment, quilted woven fabric is employed
   for part of the cover and knitted fabric is employed for the rest. More particularly,
20 in one embodiment, fabric pieces 62, 84, 88, and 89 are knitted fabric, with velour
   being particularly preferred. Fabric pieces 64, 68a-c, 70, 76a-c, and 78 are quilted
   woven fabric.
           Referring to FIGS. 16 and 17, the pillow 10 is shown in use in the back
   and side-lying positions. The pillow of the present invention may also be used in
25 the stomach sleeping and resting positions. Advantageously, the cover of the
   pillow substantially follows the contours of the pillow and provides the user with
   contact-free use of a respiratory mask and the ability to easily sanitize the pillow
   after use. According to one embodiment, the pillow is used by positioning a cover
   on the pillow such that the cover substantially follows the contours and
                                             - 11 -

   configurations of the pillow. A respiratory mask is positioned on the user's head.
   The user is positioned so that the user's shoulder is received in the lateral
   indentation 38 formed in the front side 16 of the second portion 42 of the pillow.
   The user's neck is positioned within the indentation 44 formed in the raised section
 5 36 of the second portion 42 of the pillow. The user's head is positioned within the
   central indentation 50 formed in the first portion 40 of the pillow. In one
   embodiment, the positioning of the user's head comprises positioning the user's
   head so that it is facing away from the pillow. In another embodiment, the
   positioning of the user's head comprises positioning the user's head so that the side
10 of the user's head is in contact with the cover of the pillow. In one embodiment,
   the method includes positioning the mask or hose for the mask in one of the
   recesses 34 formed in the second portion 42 of the pillow so that the pillow does
   not exert substantial pressure on the mask or hose.
            In sum, the various embodiments of the head positioning pillow of the
15 present invention may have depressions, recesses, cavities, apertures, and/or raised
   portions to accommodate various respiratory masks, such as those used for
   nighttime respiratory therapy. The depressions, recesses, cavities, apertures,
   and/or raised portions relieve pressure against the mask and the hoses or tubing
   supplying the mask when side sleeping or stomach sleeping. Since pressure
20 against the mask can impede the performance and comfort of the mask, cause the
   mask seal to separate from the face and result in air leakage (which can cause
   irritation from the eyes drying out), and/or cause the mask to press uncomfortably
   against the user's face, the embodiments of the pillows of the present invention and
   method of using the same eliminate many of the impediments to the user resting or
25 sleeping while using a respiratory mask. Advantageously, the pillow and cover of
   the present invention allow the user to move and sleep in multiple positions-left
   side, right side, back, and stomach-while minimizing the pressure that is exerted
   on the respiratory mask.
                                            - 12 -

           Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth
   herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain
   having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the
   associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to
 5 be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other
   embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.
   Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and
   descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
         This application is a divisional application from Australian application <removed-apn>.
10  The full disclosure of AU<removed-apn> is incorporated herein by reference.
                                            - 13 -

                                WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1. A method for respiratory titration, the method comprising:
          determining an optimal relative angle between the patient's mouth and
5 throat at which the patient's airway is optimally opened; and
          adjusting a head positioning pillow relative to the patient's head and neck
  to thereby modify and transform the configuration of the pillow to achieve a pillow
  position that achieves the optimal relative angle.
                                           - 14 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
