METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ASSESSING CLINICAL OUTCOMES
ABSTRACT
A method for characterizing the probability of a clinical outcome of a subject is provided. The
method comprises: a. constructing a probability space defined by a set of discrete clinical
outcomes, each of which is characterized by a statistical distribution of at least one biological
marker; b. obtaining subject data corresponding to the at least one biological marker; and c.
calculating the position of said subject data in said probability space, thereby characterizing the
probability of the clinical outcome of said subject.

                                                    1
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ASSESSING CLINICAL OUTCOMES
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2013231105, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2009228145, which is a national phase entry of International Application
No. PCT/US2009/038467, filed 26 March 2009, which claims priority from US Application
No. 61/039721, filed 26 March 2008, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.
[0002] Conventional methods for assessing a patient's clinical outcome are primarily based on
clinicians' judgment and past experience. The conventional methods generally involve
laboratory tests, patient surveys and office visits at isolated time points, all of which are not
scalable for a time series analysis, especially for one that tracks or predicts the trend of a
patient's clinical outcome in real time. Intrinsic to the conventional methodologies is the
profound drawback that a relatively small set of information such as a single clinician's personal
preference is taken into consideration in reaching a clinical decision. As such, under the existing
medical system, patient care becomes increasingly difficult when multiple variables are
involved. In particular, there lacks a system and method to effect a multi-dimensional analysis in
which a large set of biomarkers are used to aid in the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of a
clinical outcome or the design and execution of a clinical trial.
[0003] Multivariate statistics are generally concerned with determining a statistical distribution
of an outcome or a series of outcomes based on multiple variables. Inherently, most medical
conditions and treatments arc multivariate due to the complexities of the physiology. The
discoveries of a vast number of disease biomarkers and the establishment of miniaturized
analytic systems have made a new paradigm of patient care that makes multivariate analysis
feasible.
SUMMARY
[0004] A desirable new paradigm would provide rapid access to information characterizing
clinical outcome and then automatically linking that information through customized

                                                  2
communication channels so that the desired medical actions (adaptive dose ranging, clinical
decision making and so forth) can be performed. Also desirable is the ability to integrate
information from an individual's blood tests with other physiologically relevant factors, and
present that information in an actionable format. The technology described herein satisfies these
needs and provides related advantages as well.
[0005] The present invention provides a medical information system for subject data analysis. In
one aspect, a system of the present invention is particularly useful for advancing the future of
blood testing and data analysis. For example, the system can be part of an integrated
infrastructure built around real-time, point-of-care consumer blood monitoring devices which
analyze a small blood sample (e.g., 500 ul, 50ul, 25 ul, 10 ul or even less) and wirelessly
transmit that information to a database which integrates real-time data with stored data from
disparate databases (patient record, genetic/ genomic information, data from pivotal trials) into
one central repository. The system then allows for the automatic application of multivariate,
multidimensional mathematics to the data repository to perform specific commands or tasks,
e.g., mapping real-time PK/PD dynamically in the context of the pathophysiology of a given
medical condition.
[0006] In another aspect, a system of the present invention can be used to improve the label of
key drugs through adaptive clinical studies which generate publications for label expansions for
new indications, patient subpopulations, and for ameliorating safety concerns. The development
of such a system for home, real-time blood monitoring has significant implications which allow
one to collect information which is otherwise not available through the use of the conventional
laboratory testing.
[0007] The medical information system typically comprises (a) an input device for receiving
subject data and in communication with a processor; (b) storage unit in communication with the
processor having a database for: (i) storing data corresponding to a probability space defined by
a set of discrete clinical outcomes, each of which is characterized by statistical distribution of at
least one biological marker; and (ii) storing subject data corresponding to the at least one
biological marker; (c) a processor that calculates the position of said subject data in said
probability space as a way of assessing the probability of a discrete clinical outcome of said
subject; and (d) an output device that transmits information relating to the discrete clinical
outcome of c) to an end user.

                                                   3
[0008] Non-limiting clinical outcome that the system is adapted to predict can be selected from
the group consisting of but not limited to: complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable
disease (SR), non-response(NR), adverse drug effect (ADR), and drug toxicity. In using the
medical information system, the end user can be a medical personnel or the subject himself or
herself. In some instances, the end user is from a pharmaceutical company.
[0009] In one aspect, the processor of the system calculates the position of said subject data in
said probability space as a way of assessing the probability of a discrete clinical outcome of said
subject.
[0010] In another aspect, the input device of the system comprises a touch screen. Where
desired, the input system can comprise a data entry portal or a keyboard. The subject data to be
input into, processed by, or transmitted as an output by the system can be textual, numeric or a
category. Where desired, the textual or numeric information is solicited from the end user.
[0011] In some instances, the subject data represent measurements of the at least one biological
marker present in a bodily fluid. In some instances, the measurements are obtained by a point
of-care device that is operated by the subject. The measurements can be taken at various time
points to yield a trajectory within the probability space, wherein said trajectory represents a time
series of the assessed clinical outcome. The various time points can cover a period of less than
or about 24 hours.
[0012] In another aspect, the medical information system comprises an output device having an
automatic alert system. The automatic alert system can be programmable by the end user. Where
desired, the automatic alert system is programmable based on a predefined protocol for a clinical
trial. In another aspect, the output device of the system transmits selected portions of the subject
data and the probability space in response to instructions from the end user. In yet another
aspect, the information transmitted by the output device is encrypted. In still another aspect, the
information transmitted by the output device represents an assessment of the clinical outcome of
said subject at a single time point. The information transmitted by the output device can
represent a time series of the assessed clinical outcome.
[0013] In still another aspect, the input device and/or the output device of the system comprises
a user interface that can remotely access the network.

                                                    4
[0014] In yet another aspect, the medical information system comprises a network.
[0015] In yet another aspect, the storage unit of the system stores historical reference data of a
plurality of subjects in relationship to the at least one biological marker. Where desired, the data
stored in the storage unit are selected from the categories consisting of pathology, anatomy,
treatment option, treatment outcome, pharmacological parameter, pharmacokinetics parameter,
psychological parameter, and genomic information. The database can be public, internal.
[0016] The end user of the medical information system can be a health care provider, including
without limitation a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO).
[0017] The present invention further provides a method for characterizing the probability of a
clinical outcome of a subject. The method comprises the steps of (a) constructing a probability
space defined by a set of discrete clinical outcomes, each of which is characterized by a
statistical distribution of at least one biological marker; (b) obtaining subject data corresponding
to the at least one biological marker; and (c) calculating the position of said subject data in said
probability space, thereby characterizing the probability of the clinical outcome of said subject.
[0018] Also provided is a method of characterizing a clinical outcome of a subject comprising:
(a) constructing a probability space within a server, wherein the probability space is defined by
a set of discrete clinical outcomes, each of which is characterized by the statistical distribution
of at the least one biological marker; (b) entering data of a subject into the server, said data
corresponding to the at least one biological marker; and (c) calculating the position of said
subject data in said probability space thereby characterizing the clinical outcome of the subject.
In some embodiments, in practicing the subject methods, at least steps b and c are repeated at
various time points to yield a trajectory within a probability space, wherein said trajectory is
indicative of the likelihood of progression to the clinical outcome. The subject methods can
comprise the step of notifying a medical personnel or the subject of a need for taking a medical
action upon assessing or characterizing the position of said subject data in said probability
space. In some instances, the medical action involves at least one action selected from the group
consisting of altering a dosage of an existing therapeutic agent administered to said subject,
administering a different a therapeutic agent, and administering a different combination of
therapeutic agents. Notification of a medical action can be electronically transmitted, e.g.,
wirelessly transmitted. The subject methods can further comprise step of, upon selection of the
at least one action, performing an outcome analysis for assessing a result of said selected action,
and automatically updating the probability of a discrete clinical outcome of said subject.

                                                    5
[0019] Further provided in the present invention is a computer readable medium comprising
computer readable instructions, which when executed cause a processor to: a) provide a
probability space defined by a set of discrete clinical outcomes, each of which is characterized
by a statistical distribution of at least one biological marker; b) obtain subject data
corresponding to the at least one biological marker; and c) calculate the position of said subject
data in said probability space to assess the probability of a clinical outcome of said subject. In
general, the instructions operate in a software runtime environment. In one aspect, the
instructions when executed further causes a processor to provide a user defined alert condition
based on an assessment of trajectory parameters of the subject data in the probability space,
wherein said trajectory parameters are at least one of speed, acceleration, direction, and position.
[0020] In an aspect, a method is provided herein of predicting the occurrence of a medical
condition that requires medical intervention, the method comprising: (a) measuring
concentrations of a first set of biomarkers present in a subject and measuring one or more
physiological indicators of said subject at a given frequency, wherein the first set of biomarkers
are suspected to be predictive of the medical condition; (b) based on the concentrations measure
in (a), generating from the first set a subset of biomarkers that are more correlative with the
occurrence of the medical condition and/or a new frequency of measurement of the biomarkers;
and (c) measuring concentrations of the subset of (b) and/or following the new frequency of
measurement of one or more biomarkers, thereby predicting the occurrence of the medical
condition.
[0021] In some instances, a method further comprises analyzing data reflecting the
concentrations and/or the physiological indicators with multivariate statistical software. In some
instances, the biological markers are present in a biological sample of said subject. The
biological sample can be diluted by an appropriate fold to ensure, e.g. the appropriate range of
concentration level is detected.
[0022] In another aspect herein, a method of monitoring sepsis development of a subject
comprises: measuring at least two parameters selected from the group of (1) body temperature
of said subject, (2) protein C concentration of said subject, (3) interleukin 6 (IL-6) concentration
of said subject, multiple times to yield a trend of temperature, protein C trend, and/or IL-6; and
wherein an increase beyond normal body temperature, a decrease in protein C concentration
and/or an increase in IL-6 concentration is indicative of the development of sepsis in said

                                                    6
subject. In some aspects, a decrease in protein C and an increase of IL-6 can be indicative of the
development of sepsis in said subject. In some other aspects, a decrease in protein C and an
increase of IL-6 and an increase beyond normal body temperature can be indicative of the
development of sepsis in said subject. In some instances, an at least about 10-fold increase in IL
6 concentration in said subject is indicative of the occurrence of sepsis in said subject. In a
further instance, an at least about 100-fold increase in IL-6 concentration in said subject is
indicative of the occurrence of sepsis in said subject. This method may further comprise the
step of increasing frequency of measuring IL-6 concentration upon an increase beyond normal
body temperature and/or a decrease in protein C concentration. For example, the frequency of
IL-6 measurement can be increased to once a day, once every 12, 8, 6, or 4 hours. A
determination of the occurrence of sepsis may be promptly followed by an appropriate medical
intervention.
[0023] Also described herein is a method for characterizing a medical condition of a subject,
comprising: obtaining a first set of subject data comprising at least one biological marker and at
least one physiological parameter from the subject; determining the probability of a medical
condition of the subject using the first set of subject data obtained; selecting a second set of
subject data from the probability of the medical condition; and obtaining the second set of
subject data from the subject, thereby characterizing the medical condition of the subject.
[0024] In yet another aspect, a method is disclosed for characterizing periodicity of a clinical
condition of a subject, the method comprises: identifying a set of biomarkers for a clinically
relevant condition; obtaining longitudinal subject data corresponding to at least one biomarker
in said set to obtain a trend of the subject data; analyzing said trend to identify periodic changes
in the at least one biomarker; measuring values of peak measurements of the periodic changes of
the trend; and characterizing the values of the peaks thereby characterizing the periodicity of the
clinically relevant condition. In some instances, the analyzing step comprises developing an
ARIMA model to determine a differencing lag in the underlying model. The differencing lag
can be used to de-trend the trend and establish a stationary trend. In some instances, the
analyzing step comprises calculating an autocorrelation function and the measuring step
comprises identifying the statistically significant peaks in the autocorrelation function. In some
instances, the analyzing step comprises calculating spectral density and the calculating spectral
density is performed using a Fast Fourier Transform. The measuring step can comprise
identifying the power spectrum of the maximum spectral density frequency.

                                                     7
[0025] In an aspect described herein, a method for monitoring subject response to therapy
comprises: obtaining longitudinal subject data corresponding to at least one biomarker in a set of
biomarkers for a clinically relevant condition to obtain a trend of the subject data, wherein the
subject data is obtained from a subject receiving a therapy; monitoring periodicity of the trend;
and corresponding the periodicity to a response to the therapy received by the subject. In some
instances, the therapy is a periodic dosing regimen. In some instances, the response to the
therapy is characterized by a time-dependent behavior of peak levels of the trend. In some
instances, the time-dependent behavior is substantially constant. In other instances, the time
dependent behavior is changing linearly. In yet other instances, the time-dependent behavior is
changing exponentially.
[0026] In an aspect, a method is disclosed herein for characterizing the emergence of clinically
relevant subpopulations of patients exposed to a therapeutic agent, the method comprising:
identifying a set of biomarkers in a blood sample that act as surrogate markers for the
therapeutic agent; measuring the set of biomarkers longitudinally from a group of patients
exposed to the therapeutic agent; identifying distinct clusters in a multivariate clustering space
of the measured values of the set of biomarkers from the group of patients; determining the rate
of separation of the distinct clusters and measuring the distance between the distinct clusters in a
statistical manner; obtaining patient information from the group of patients to classify the
patients in clinically relevant subpopulations; and comparing the distinct clusters to the
clinically relevant subpopulations to characterize sensitivity and specificity of the distinct
clusters to predict the clinically relevant subpopulations. In some instances, the method further
comprises identifying a second set of biomarkers configured to improve the characterization of
the emergence of distinct clusters to predict the clinically relevant subpopulations. In some
instances, the group of patients exposed to the therapeutic agent are participants in a clinical
trial. In some instances, the clinical trial is a dose ranging trial. In other instances, the clinical
trial is a part of an adaptive clinical trial. The adaptive clinical trial can be designed to
characterize an optimal dosing regimen or can be designed to characterize an optimal responder
population. In some instances, the measuring the distance step comprises measuring the
Mahalanobis distance between the distinct cluster centroids. In other instances, the measuring
the distance step comprises measuring the nearest-neighbors distance between the distinct
clusters. In yet other instances, the measuring the distance step comprises measuring a Euclidean
distance measure between the distinct clusters. In some instances, the measuring the distance
step measuring a Manhattan distance measure between the distinct cluster.

                                                    8
INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[0027] All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein
incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent
application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0028] Many features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended claims. A
better understanding of the features and advantages of the invention will be obtained by
reference to the following detailed description that sets forth illustrative embodiments, in which
many principles of the invention are utilized, and the accompanying drawings of which:
[0029] Fig. 1 illustrates a general representation of the Mahalanobis distance method and the
representative ellipses. The figure also includes the Mahalanobis distance mathematical
equation.
[0030] Fig. 2 illustrates an example of the results of a cluster analysis of a clinical outcome.
[0031] Fig. 3 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of assessing a clinical outcome of
a subject and assigning probabilities thereto.
[0032] Fig. 4 illustrates an example probability space geometrical representation.
[0033] Fig. 5 illustrates a trajectory of data of a subject in a probability space.
[0034] Fig. 6 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of alerting a user to assess a
clinical outcome of a subject.
[0035] Fig. 7 demonstrates a method of establishing rules for a probability space of clinical
outcomes.
[0036] Fig. 8 illustrates a graphical presentation of rules for a probability space.
[0037] Fig. 9 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of implementing a mathematical
model to assess a clinical outcome.

                                                  9
[0038] Fig. 10 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary system comprising a server for
communicating and processing medical data.
[0039] Fig. 11 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a system of the invention with real-time
acquisition of subject data and the transmittal of the information in real-time to a server or
system that is capable of converting the information or data to a physiologically relevant
context.
[0040] Fig. 12 demonstrates an exemplary system of the invention, wherein a health care
operating system comprises data infrastructure, models and algorithms, and software
applications.
[0041] Fig. 13 demonstrates an exemplary database comprising an ontology of biomarkers that
are related some types of medical conditions.
[0042] Fig. 14 illustrates an exemplary hierarchy of a healthcare operating system of the
invention wherein the central operating system has access to a data infrastructure and
monitoring devices for obtaining subject data.
[0043] Fig. 15 demonstrates an exemplary system of the invention wherein an analysis database
can receive information from a database containing data from a reader or cartridge database,
historical databases, a patient database that can contain data entered by a patient, and a customer
database.
[0044] Fig. 16 illustrates exemplary trajectories of two subjects in a probability space
representing prostate cancer discrete clinical outcomes.
[0045] Fig. 17 illustrates exemplary trajectories of two subjects in a probability space
representing clinical outcomes of a subject developing sepsis.
[0046] Fig. 18 illustrates exemplary trajectories of two subjects in a probability space
representing the medical condition of diabetic subject using an insulin sensitizer.
[0047] Fig. 19 illustrates a method of graphically representing a trajectory of subject data in a
probability space in two dimensions.

                                                  10
[0048] Fig. 20 illustrates a method of graphically representing a trajectory of subject data in a
probability space in two dimensions and the position of the data for defining discrete clinical
outcomes.
[0049] Fig. 21 demonstrates a dynamic subpopulation emergence based on cluster analysis of a
Monte Carlo simulation of a two-cohort clinical design.
[0050] Fig. 22 demonstrates plots of the cluster calling statistics versus the hypothetical number
of clusters.
[0051] Fig. 23 illustrates markers of clinical effect with the segregation of the marker space as a
function of dose at the end point of a clinical study.
[0052] Fig. 24 demonstrates patient data showing the seasonality of two type 1 biomarkers over
time.
[0053] Fig. 25 demonstrates a time series of a biomarker value versus the time of chemotherapy
delivery.
[0054] Fig. 26 demonstrates the relationship between parameters computed from circulating
pyrogen levels measured over time and/or and the time-to-spike.
[0055] Fig. 27 is the IL-I beta concentration versus time point number.
[0056] Fig. 28 is the sample-to-sample fold change for IL1-beta versus time point number.
[0057] Fig. 29 is the IL-6 concentration versus time point number, wherein patient 4 became
septic.
[0058] Fig. 30 is the sample-to-sample fold change for IL-6 versus time point number, wherein
patient 4 became septic.
[0059] Fig. 31 is the TNF-alpha concentration versus time point number.
[0060] Fig. 32 is the sample-to-sample fold change for TNF-alpha versus time point number.

                                                    11
[0061] Fig. 33 illustrates the residual plot for Patient 5 who has a fever spike and no decreasing
markers.
[0062] Fig. 34 demonstrates Patient 4 data points showing decreasing Protein-C with increasing
IL-6 just prior to fever spike.
[0063] Fig. 35 is a schematic of the Thl-to-Th2 switch and the cytokines representing each
phenotype.
[0064] Fig. 36 and Fig. 37 demonstrate that the system uses an equation that is anticipative of
sepsis using the Squared Maholanobis distance equation and Bayesian Probability.
[0065] Fig. 38 illustrates a graph in time of a plurality of marker proteins for a patient in a sepsis
trial.
[0066] Fig. 39 illustrates a bivariate time course of two particular markers (protein C and C
reactive protein) in the same patient.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0067] In one embodiment, a method is provided herein for characterizing the probability of a
clinical outcome of a subject. The method comprises the steps of (a) constructing a probability
space defined by a set of discrete clinical outcomes, each of which is characterized by a
statistical distribution of at least one biological marker; (b) obtaining subject data corresponding
to the at least one biological marker; and (c) calculating the position of said subject data in said
probability space, thereby characterizing the probability of the clinical outcome of said subject.
[0068] In practicing the methods herein, one generally utilizes a set of biological markers (also
referred to herein as biomarkers) relevant to a given clinical outcome. In order to improve the
reliability and accuracy of a mathematical calculation, biomarkers are selected based upon
multivariate statistics from data pertaining to a clinical outcome, whether it being, for example,
a disease or a medical procedure. In some embodiments, discriminant analysis is performed to
determine the most relevant biomarkers pertaining to a particular medical clinical outcome.

                                                   12
[0069] In an aspect, a method is provided herein of predicting the occurrence of a medical
condition that requires medical intervention, the method comprising: (a) measuring
concentrations of a first set of biomarkers present in a subject and measuring one or more
physiological indicators of said subject at a given frequency, wherein the first set of biomarkers
are suspected to be predictive of the medical condition; (b) based on the concentrations measure
in (a), generating from the first set a subset of biomarkers that are more correlative with the
occurrence of the medical condition and/or a new frequency of measurement of the biomarkers;
and (c) measuring concentrations of the subset of (b) and/or following the new frequency of
measurement of one or more biomarkers, thereby predicting the occurrence of the medical
condition.
[0070] Pluralities of discrete clinical outcomes, sometimes referred to as medical outcomes, for
a specific medical condition are plotted in a geometrical manner. A set of values of the
biomarkers are chosen that are the most representative of each clinical outcome. Using the
mathematical methods described herein, probabilities of class assignment to each discrete
clinical outcome can be assigned to any set of values of observed biomarkers. A probability
space can then be constructed by plotting the probability of any set of values of observed
biological markers within the geometric space defined by the plurality of discrete clinical
outcomes.
MODEL BUILDING
[0071] In some instances, mathematical modeling describes the dynamic state of a system. In
some instances, the models use a system of equations representing outcome parameters,
biomarker and drug concentrations and the like over time. Such equations might be simple
enough to solve in closed form, yielding an algorithmic formula. However, in some instances,
models of human disease can be too complex to permit a simple closed form solution. In some
instances, a solution as described herein can be projecting numerical solutions forward in time,
also known as termed predictive biosimulation.
[0072] The objective of cluster analysis is to group observations into clusters such that each
cluster is as homogeneous as possible with respect to the clustering variables. Any conventional
clustering algorithm may be used to define the discrete set of clinical outcomes based upon the
recognized biomarkers. Besides the Discriminant Function Analysis, there are many such

                                                   13
algorithms, such as "Single Linkage," "Complete Linkage," "K means," "Ward's Method," or
the "Centroid Method." Additionally, one can identify clusters using "Decision Trees". These
algorithms are well-known to anyone familiar with the art, and are available in standard
statistical packages such as SAS and SPSS. The clustering algorithms group like objects
together, and keep unlike objects in separate groups.
[0073] Multivariate statistics to identify classes of similar subjects in a sample population can
also be applied for building an appropriate model. The techniques currently employed include,
but are not limited to, Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA), Hierarchical Clustering Analysis,
Factor Analysis (in which an underlying model or relationship is assumed), Self-Organizing
Maps (SOMs), Support Vector Machines (SVMs), and Neural Nets. Each is a pattern
recognition technology using multivariate descriptor vectors, which subjects are classmates, to
more completely manage an adaptive clinical trial.
[0074] Other techniques estimating the model parameter space include several conventional
methods, such as the graphical method and gradient-based nonlinear optimization (Mendes and
Kell, 1998). The graphical method is typically applied to those problems that can be converted
to linear regression problems, and are generally not amenable to closed-loop learning as they
require human intervention at each step. The gradient-based nonlinear optimization method
does not have such a restriction; however it does require information about the error function
with respect to the parameter estimates. As such it often converges to local minima.
Evolutionary algorithms including genetic algorithms, evolutionary programming, genetic
programming, and their variants (Back et al., 1997; McKay et al., 1997; Edwards et al., 1998)
have been applied to overcome these limitations.
[0075] In some instances, to best account for the dynamics of a biological system, the equation
systems discussed above can be composed of ordinary differential equations which calculate the
rate of change of a biological entity over a fixed time segment. That quantification is a function
of the state of the system at the instant of analysis, and includes terms for all other entities in the
system that might affect that rate of change.
[0076] In many instances, as described herein, biological entities of interest are found in blood
comprising but not limited to circulating proteins. In the modeling space, the time rate of
change of each biological entity is called the derivative and is quantified as the instantaneous
slope of the biological entity's concentration curve in the time domain.

                                                     14
[0077] The value of any selected target biological entity at each selected sampling time point
can be calculated as well as the rate of change for every entity in the sampling space. This can
result in a point estimate per biological entity for the derivative in units comprising but not
limited to a change in concentration per unit time.
[0078] In some instances, a method can utilize two point slopes along with a K-point model
fitting regression equations through the last K observations, to estimate the first, second, and
higher order derivatives, for example:
         dP(t)/dt = f(P(t), {other proteins, cells types, etc.}, model parameters)
         where P(t) is the concentration of a given protein as a function of time. And where f is
function of P(t) and entities affecting specific protein concentration curves, comprising second
signals, cell numbers, and the like. And where model parameters are coefficients in those
equations that quantify those relationships, for example comprising production rates and
clearance rates. The system can be linear or non-linear.
[0079] An alternate embodiment of the mechanism is a system of entities where P(t) is a protein
vector r1(t) = [Pi(t), P 2(t),...PN(t)] where N is the number of proteins chosen to sample, and f(P,
etc.) becomes a matrix M(JI(t); p(H(t)). The system parameters become a vector as p(TI(t)).
[0080] For example, clearance rates of each Pj(t) in the vector 11(t) are captured in this vector
form.   p(H(t)) characterizes the functional coefficients of the matrix M. The system is linear
when   P does not depend on H(t) or on time.      The system is linear and parametrically time
dependent when     P depends on t, and   varies linearly with time.
[0081] In another example, the system is nonlinear when the clearance rate changes with time
and can represent the up-regulation or down-regulation in time. The system is represented but is
not limited by the vector equation:
         dH(t)/dt = M(H(t); p(Y(t))* H(t)
[0082] In yet another example, the dynamic state of biological systems has a level of specificity
which is captured in an exemplary biosimulation system. Every entity in the system will
typically act on a small subset of other entities. For example, protein 2 modifies the rate of
production of protein 1 by binding to a cell surface receptor on an activated effector cell. The

                                                   15
concentration of protein 2 modifies the rate of production of protein 1. When a third protein
acts on the production of protein 2 the rate of production of protein 1 depends indirectly on the
level of production of protein 2.
[0083] The equations that best represent the above example in this biosimulation system are:
        dP 1/dt =  312 P 2(t)
        dP 2/dt = -122 P 2(t) + 323 P 3(t)
        dP 3/dt =    0
[0084] In these exemplary equations, the concentration of Protein 3 is constant and the rate of
Protein 1 production is an increasing function of the Protein 2 levels, factored by P12 >0. In
addition, the levels of Protein 2 are a function rate Protein 2 is cleared from the system, in this
case, proportionally by a factor P22 >0, and the effects of P3 (t) on its production, described by a
factor p23 >0 and is parameterized by the vector (P12, P22 , $23).     Any triplet vector can be used
in the general case to generate any family of trajectories in time for Proteins 1 and 2. Protein 3
is non-varying in this model since its derivative remains zero.
[0085] By measuring Proteins 1 and 3 at each time point in a monitoring period, values for Pi(t),
and P 3(t), and estimates for dPi/dt and dP 3/dt are obtained. P 2 (t) can then be solved and constrain
the solution set to a parameter vector (p*12, @*22 , @*23), which is defined by well defined
algebraic equations. Estimates of both P 2(t) and dP 2/dt derive the state of the constrained system
based on point estimates as derived from the samples. This allows for projecting forward in time
where a model trajectory will likely be at the next sample point, and re-adjustment of the model
parameters as necessary in a dynamic feedback self-correcting system.
[0086] The self-correcting mechanism and feedback system can be implemented in a
periodically sampled measurement space, and that model refinement and re-parameterization
can take place at each sample interval. After each application of this self-correcting
methodology, the space of acceptable parameter vectors should begin to converge to a patient
specific vector that projects forward in a predictive trajectory.
[0087] A system that dynamically characterizes patient subpopulations based on the
longitudinal sampling of predictive protein profiles can use that information as a Type 1

                                                   16
biomarker to verify to the researcher scientist that the compound is acting on the target as
expected. The mechanism of action for that compound can also be researched for whether it is
acting as expected. Characterization of the dynamic emergence of the subpopulations is based
upon their behaviors and the protein profiles they exhibit.
[0088] In an example, one population is treated with the test compound while another is an
untreated control. If the protein profiles of the treated population behave in accordance with the
underlying hypothesis as it pertains to the compound's mechanism of action, the protein profiles
will, as a conglomerate pattern, act as a Type 1 biomarker. If individuals within that population
show considerable variance in both the direction and velocity of the protein profile, adjustment
of the doses of the slower population members can occur and the trial protocol can be changed
accordingly.
[0089] A variety of statistical analyses are applicable for building a probability space or model.
Fig. 1 illustrates an exemplary characterization of similarity as measured by the Mahalanobis
distance in a two-dimensional (multivariate) space. The outcome of a discriminant function
analysis is typically a Mahalanobis distance for every subject in the analysis data set. The
methods of performing the discriminant analysis in this manner or similar manners are known to
those skilled in the art. In this example, the data from two independent variables (for example,
biomarkers) are plotted against each other. Each patient in the analysis set is represented by a
single point on the graph. The distance between each patient's biomarker pair pattern and the
centroid of the cluster of data is calculated as the Mahalanobis distance and is represented by the
ellipses in the Fig. 1, wherein the centroid can be typically defined as the mean sector of all
independent measures in the space of interest. The probability that any particular patient belongs
to a cluster depicted herein is inversely proportional to the distance from the centroid of the
cluster. In this way the Mahalanobis distance ellipse on the plot in Fig. 1 is used as a measure of
similarity between the two sets of independent variables. This method also accounts for noise in
the appropriate distance metric by assigning probabilities of class assignment for a particular
patient based on the variance observed in the underlying clustered data. Thus this method can
account for uncertainty in the probability space.
[0090] In conventional clustering, one typically works from a distance matrix, which lists the
similarity of every object to be clustered versus every other object. The process begins with the
creation of the distance matrix as known to one skilled in the art. A triangular matrix of

                                                     17
distances among all pairs of patients must be computed. Each of the distances between subject
data will be a function of the measured biomarkers. The function would take the form of a sum
or weighted sum. The distances for a given variable are, in turn, a sum of distances between
individual observations for that variable. This sum also may be weighted. For example, each
cluster of subjects potentially represents a discrete clinical outcome.
[0091] The distance matrix metric can include calculating a statistical difference, such as the
Mahalanobis distance, Euclidean distance, and Manhattan distance. The matrix represents, in a
statistically rigorous way, the similarity of two multivariate patterns in a multidimensional
space. Based on these distances, individuals are grouped together in a cluster.
[0092] Fig. 2 illustrates an exemplary clustering method of defining the discrete clinical
outcomes. In this example, the centroid method was used to determine multiple centroids of
biomarker data patterns. Each centroid either defines or belongs to a different set of discrete
clinical outcomes based upon measured biomarker information. In Fig. 2, examples of the
classification of biomarker patterns of a medical condition include a partial responder class, a
non-responder class, a complete responder class, and an adverse drug reaction class. Every data
point is related to a centroid of the class it falls within. The centroid can be set to be the point
most representative of the class.
[0093] After the distance matrix has been constructed and discrete clinical outcomes have been
defined by a set of biomarkers, a probability space can be constructed from multivariate
distributions (for example, clusters) by applying a metric that accounts for the variance
covariance structure of the data. Based upon the measured distance, a probability for class
assignment for any observed biomarker pattern is calculated. The calculated probability for any
obtained biomarker pattern defines the probability space.
[0094] Where desired, a probability measurement is carried out by way of a Bayesian
calculation. Other methods of calculating the probability for class assignment include, but are
not limited to, Nelson-Aalen estimation, the ordinary least squares estimation, the weighted least
squares estimation, and the maximum likelihood estimation. Another method is to use a decision
tree analysis and from the measure determine the ultimate sensitivity and specificity of the
derived rule.

                                                   18
[0095] Fig. 3 illustrates an exemplary method of the invention of building a mathematical model
for assessing a medical condition. Based upon prior history of a medical condition, a user (for
example, a physician) identifies the relevant clinical outcomes or outcomes. The physiology, a
compound or drug's method of action, and/or off target treatment effects are then utilized to
help define the borders of a probability space.
[0096] A graphical example of the probability space and the discrete clinical outcomes that
define the borders of the probability space are illustrated in Fig. 4. Each number represents a
different clinical outcome.
[0097] Biomarkers that are most relevant to the clinical outcomes of a given medical condition
are identified using multivariate discriminant analysis. Data from the set of biomarkers are
classified according to the discrete clinical outcome to which the independent data is most
closely correlated.
[0098] After the data sets are classified by cluster analysis and/or discriminant function analysis
and identified as clinical outcomes, the centroid location of a clinical outcome is determined.
For each reference point or independent biomarker data point, a probability of classification into
each reference clinical outcome is assessed.
[0099] When data from an individual subject is obtained corresponding to at least one
biomarker, the data is input into the mathematical model and its geometrical position within the
probability space is determined. A distance metric is then used to determine the position of the
subject data with reference to each clinical outcome. In a preferred embodiment, the distance
metric is the Mahalanobis distance. For the subject data, the model obtains a distance metric
corresponding to each discrete clinical outcome.
[0100] A statistical estimation method is used to convert the plurality of distance metrics into a
plurality of probabilities for the subject data. Each probability of the plurality of probabilities
corresponds to a discrete clinical outcome. In an embodiment, the statistical estimation is a
Bayesian estimation. The plurality of probabilities is used as the coordinates of the subject data
in the geometric probability space, such as the one illustrated in Fig. 4. The position of the
subject data within the probability space is an assessment of the medical condition of the
subject.

                                                  19
[0101] Rules can be assigned by the user (for example, medical personnel) to any point in the
probability space. The rules may guide the user in understanding the subject's current medical
condition and guide the user in selecting a course of action.
[0102] The methods described herein can be performed at any point in time during observation
of the subject. Subject data can be obtained at various time points. The position of the subject
data in the probability space can then be calculated using the mathematical methods described
herein. The steps of obtaining and calculating the position of subject data in a probability space
can be repeated to yield a trajectory within a probability space, wherein said trajectory is
indicative of a time series of the assessed clinical outcomes.
TRAJECTORY
[0103] As a medical condition progresses, a subject is typically monitored by medical
personnel. Monitoring can be preformed by running a series of tests. As testing methods and
devices, such as point-of-care microfluidic devices, become more reliable and accessible, data
from the patient can be acquired and processed at multiple time points. The sequential structure
of obtained data is often a time series or a set of longitudinal data, but may also be data that
reflects changes that occur sequentially with no specific reference to time. The system does not
require that the time or sequence values are equally spaced. In fact, the time parameter can be a
random variable itself.
[0104] In some embodiments, the time series of obtaining subject data is at least 6, 24, 48, 72,
or 96 hours. In other embodiments, the time series can be at least 7, 30, 60, 90, 180, or more
days. The time series can also be over a series of years.
[0105] The longitudinal data provides valuable insight into the progression of a medical
condition or treatment. However, as the number of tested items increases, the complexity of
analyzing the longitudinal data increases. It can become very difficult to understand or
determine relevant data about a medical condition or treatment.
[0106] The longitudinal data acquired from a subject can be grouped into a vector or a trajectory
to assess a medical condition. A vector is defined geometrically as an arrow where the tail is the
initial point and the head is the terminal point. A vector's components can relate to a
geographical coordinate system, such as longitude and latitude. Navigation, by way of specific

                                                 20
example, uses vectors extensively to locate objects and to determine the direction of movement
of aircraft and watercraft.
[0107] Physics and engineering fields are probably the most common users of vector analysis
and have stimulated much of the mathematical research. In the field of mechanics, vector
analysis objects include equations of motion including location, velocity, direction, and
acceleration; center of gravity; moments of inertia; forces such as friction, stress, and stain;
electromagnetic and gravitational fields.
[0108] Velocity, the time rate of change in position, is the combination of speed (vector length)
and bearing (vector direction). Acceleration is another common vector quantity, which is the
time rate of change of the velocity. Both velocity and acceleration are obtained through vector
analysis, which is the mathematical determination of a vector's properties and/or behaviors.
[0109] Vector analysis of longitudinal subject data pertaining to a medical condition can be used
to understand the medical condition and statistically determine a discrete clinical outcome.
[0110] For example, the normal condition for the individual can be observed by plotting
biomarker data for the individual. The stable, normal condition will be a located in one portion
of the graph.
[0111] The individual's normal condition may be disturbed by the administration of a
pharmaceutical or a change in medical condition. Under the effect of the administered
pharmaceutical, the individual's normal condition will become unstable and move from its
original position in the graph to a new position in the graph. When the administration of a
pharmaceutical is stopped, or the effect of the pharmaceutical ends, the individual's normal
condition may be disturbed again, which would lead to another move of the normal condition in
the graph. When the administration of a pharmaceutical is stopped, or the effect of the
pharmaceutical ends, the individual's normal condition may return to its original position in the
graph before the pharmaceutical was administered or to a new or tertiary position that is
different from both the primary pre-pharmaceutical position and the secondary pharmaceutical
resultant position.
[0112] In some instances, biomarker values can change very rapidly, such that standard
sampling (for example, a lab test) may miss large changes in the values. In an example, sepsis

                                                  21
can occur very quickly when a patient is using a pharmaceutical or is a member of a
pharmaceutical clinical trial. Many times, early clues as to the medical condition of the patient
are not seen because current testing procedures do not occur rapidly enough. Also current testing
procedures are inflexible within a short period of time, so if a patient needs to be tested for a
different biomarker value or physiological parameter within a short period of times (for
example, 4 hours), it is often not possible to receive test results.
[0113] Large changes in biomarker values can occur such that conventional lab methods which
use only one sample dilution level cannot measure the analyte due to the range of the device.
Often, more sophisticated lab methods that use multiple dilution ranges that extend a range can
also be overwhelmed by a massive change (for example, greater than 1000-fold) in a biomarker
value. If a dilution is repeated to obtain the proper range, in many instances 24 hours may have
elapsed before the results of the assays are obtained. As described, a system or method herein
can report results in near real-time fashion, therefore medical personnel has the ability to change
the course of medical action as necessary from the biomarker values obtained. For example,
when an increase of an analyte between assay increases by 100-fold, 200-fold, 500-fold, 1000
fold, 10,000-fold, or even more, it can increase the dilution level used for the next sample (for
example, 100, 200, 500, 1000, 10,000-fold or higher) in addition to changing the frequency of
measurement of the analyte.
[0114] In an aspect herein, a method of monitoring sepsis development of a subject comprises:
measuring at least two parameters selected from the group of (1) body temperature of said
subject, (2) protein C concentration of said subject, (3) interleukin 6 (IL-6) concentration of said
subject, multiple times to yield a trend of temperature, protein C trend, and/or IL-6; and wherein
an increase beyond normal body temperature, a decrease in protein C concentration and/or an
increase in IL-6 concentration is indicative of the development of sepsis in said subject. A
decrease in protein C followed by an increase of IL-6 can be indicative of the development of
sepsis in said subject. A decrease in protein C followed by an increase of IL-6 and an increase
beyond normal body temperature can be indicative of the development of sepsis in said subject.
In some instances, an at least about 10-fold, 100-fold, 200-fold, 500-fold, 1000-fold, 10,000
fold, 500,000-fold or more increase in IL-6 concentration in said subject is indicative of the
development of sepsis in said subject. In a further instance, an at least about 10-fold, 100-fold,
200-fold, 500-fold, 1000-fold, or more decrease in protein C concentration in said subject is
indicative of the development of sepsis in said subject.

                                                   22
[0115] In an example, when no significant event is occurring in a patient following
chemotherapy at home, the measurement frequency of an analyte can be reduced. In some
instances, the system can prompt appropriate action by a user based on prior results.
[0116] In some instances, the methods and systems described herein allow for the monitoring of
the health status or medical condition of a subject throughout a time frame as small as a few
days. For example, the evolution and pathophysiology of the disease process, the response to
therapy, and the possible onset of untoward side effects upon exposure to a drug can be
monitored by longitudinally sampling blood. From these samples a profile of key circulating
biomarkers can be established. Specific biomarkers can be selected based on, for example
without limitation: knowledge of the disease process and its molecular pathophysiology, the
mechanism of action of a given compound, and its observed effects profiles.
[0117] Representation of a similar movement of longitudinal data to that previously described is
illustrated in Fig. 5. At each time point (T  = 0 to T = 9), the data point is plotted in a probability
space. The line traveled from one point to the next is a vector.
[0118] Diagnosis of the individual may be aided by studying several aspects of the movement of
the individual's medical condition in a probability space. The direction (for example, the angle
and/or orientation) of the path followed by the medical condition as it moves in the graph can
aid in the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment decision-making for a given clinical outcome. The
speed and acceleration of the movement of the medical condition in the graph may also be
diagnostic. Also, the position of the individual's medical condition at an independent time point
may itself be diagnostic.
[0119] Given that the direction and/or speed of the movement of the normal condition in the
graph is diagnostic, one can use the direction and/or speed of the initial movement of the normal
condition to predict the consequent, new location of the normal condition; especially if it is
established that, under the effect of a certain agent (for example, a pharmaceutical), there are
only a certain number of locations in the graph at which an individual's normal condition will
stabilize.
[0120] However, in some aspects of the invention, both diagnosis and prediction of assessing
the medical condition of a subject are performed by qualified medical personnel and the
mathematical model provides an educational tool and resource.

                                                  23
[0121] Fig. 6 illustrates an exemplary method of the invention for applying a mathematical
model longitudinally in real-time. Relevant biomarkers and discrete clinical outcomes
corresponding to different biomarker patterns are predetermined from historical data. Data is
then obtained from a subject and the data corresponding to each relevant biomarker is measured.
Data is preferably obtained from the subject using a point-of-care microfluidic device, however,
it can be obtained in any manner. Each time the data is obtained a distance metric (for example,
Mahalanobis distance) is calculated in relation to each centroid obtained from a cluster analysis
of the historical data. The centroids represent the discrete clinical outcomes determined from the
historical data.
[0122] As following the flow diagram in Fig. 6, for each individual data set through time, the
probability of the data belonging to each clinical outcome is calculated. The probability is
calculated from the distance metric using a statistical estimation procedure, such as a Bayesian
estimate. Based on the set of calculated probabilities, the position of each time point of subject
data is assigned to the probability space. The calculation is repeated for each time point.
[0123] A trajectory or vector is then created by linking adjacent time points. The distance,
direction, speed, and acceleration of the vector can be calculated and plotted for display or
review. If the user (for example, physician), deems the data to be of significant importance, the
user may activate an alarm or warning system and accordingly change the course of action for
treating or monitoring the medical condition. After a course of action has been adjusted, the
steps assessing the medical condition of a subject can be repeated to continue to monitor the
trajectory of the subject.
[0124] Fig. 7 illustrates an exemplary method of the invention for developing an alarm or early
warning system for or upon assessing the medical condition of a subject. The trajectory of a
medical condition of subject and the information corresponding to the trajectory (for example,
speed or acceleration) is obtained through a method of multivariate statistical calculations, such
as the method illustrated in Fig. 6. In order to analyze the information obtained from the
mathematical analysis, qualified medical personnel (for example, a physician) can establish
criteria for activating an alarm or warning system based on the measurement of biomarker
patterns from an individual subject.

                                                    24
[0125] This method allows each individual user to define the value and set of criteria as they see
fit, according to the individual user's priorities. It is understood that each user or physician may
view each medical condition differently and the example method of Fig. 7 accounts for these
differences.
[0126] An exemplary method of the invention assigns progress lines to each discrete clinical
outcome. The progress lines may represent different clinical criteria for the medical condition a
subject passes over. Preferably, the progress lines are positioned and determined by an
individual user, such as medical personnel. The user may assign different locations of the
progress lines based upon the subject history, historical data of the medical condition, or
personal experience. An example of a probability space with rules demonstrated as progress
lines is illustrated in Fig. 8. For example, if the trajectory of a subject goes within one of the
progress lines illustrated in Fig. 8, an alarm or warning system may be activated to notify the
user or the subject. Other possible results include, but are not limited to, a system printout of the
medical data, a user interface displaying the information, a flashing light, an alert system, an
alarm, a buzzer, an email, a telephone communication, and a pager system. The alarm system not only
assesses the current medical condition of the subject, but may also guide a course of action for
the user.
[0127] When one or more of the characteristics of the trajectory surpasses a specific value as
determined by the model user, an alarm or warning system can be activated. The user can then
determine the next course of action for assessing the medical condition of the subject.
[0128] In an embodiment of the invention, medical personnel or the subject can be notified of a
need for taking a medical action after assessing or characterizing the position of the subject data
in a probability space. Examples of a notification include an alert system, an alarm, a buzzer, an email,
a telephone communication, and a pager system.
[0129] Medical personnel may take medical action when notified by the methods of the
invention that the medical condition of a subject has violated a rule imposed by the medical
personnel. Medical action includes, but is not limited to, ordering more tests performed on the
patient, altering the dosage of an administered therapeutic agent, administering a therapeutic
agent, terminating the administration of a therapeutic agent, combining therapies, administering
an alternative therapy, placing the subject on a dialysis or heart and lung machine, and

                                                  25
administering a pain killer. In some embodiments, the subject may take medical action. For
example, a diabetic subject may administer a dose of insulin.
[0130] After a medical action has been taken or has been chosen, an outcome analysis can be
performed for characterizing a result of the selected action. The outcome analysis can lead to
automatically updating the probability of the discrete clinical outcome of the subject.
[0131] Any clinical outcome, result, or action related to a particular medical condition may be
utilized as a discrete clinical outcome. For example, discrete clinical outcomes may be generic,
such as responder, non-responder, partial responder, and septic, or they be more specific such as
adverse drug reactions. In addition, discrete clinical outcomes may be sequellae, or downstream
clinically relevant events or results. Subject data can be obtained for any pharmacological,
pathophysiological or pathopsychological clinical outcome. The subject data may be obtained
during a first time period before an intervention is administered to the patient, and also during a
second, or more, time period(s) after the intervention is administered to the patient. The
intervention may comprise a drug(s) and/or a placebo. The intervention may be suspected to
have a propensity to affect the heightened risk of the onset of the specific medical condition.
The intervention may be suspected of having a propensity to decrease the heightened risk of the
onset of the specific medical condition. The specific medical condition may be an unwanted side
effect. The intervention may comprise administering a drug, and wherein the drug has a
propensity to increase the risk of the specific medical condition, the specific medical condition
may be an undesired side effect.
[0132] Medical conditions include, but are not limited to, pharmacological, pathological,
physiological and psychological conditions. For example, abnormality, affliction, ailment,
anomaly, anxiety, cause, disease, disorder, illness, indisposition, infirmity, malady, problem or
sickness, and may include a positive medical condition for example, fertility, pregnancy and
retarded or reversed male pattern baldness. Specific medical conditions include, but are not
limited to, neurodegenerative disorders, reproductive disorders, cardiovascular disorders,
autoimmune disorders, inflammatory disorders, cancers, bacterial and viral infections, diabetes,
arthritis and endocrine disorders. Other diseases include, but are not limited to, lupus,
rheumatoid arthritis, endometriosis, multiple sclerosis, stroke, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's
diseases, Huntington's disease, Prion diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), ischaemias,
atherosclerosis, risk of myocardial infarction, hypertension, pulmonary hypertension, congestive

                                                  26
heart failure, thromboses, diabetes mellitus types I or II, lung cancer, breast cancer, colon
cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, brain cancer, solid tumors,
melanoma, disorders of lipid metabolism, HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, including hepatitis A, B and C,
thyroid disease, aberrant aging, and any other disease or disorder.
BIOLOGICAL MARKERS
[0133] Biological markers, also referred to herein as biomarkers, according to the present
invention include without limitation drugs, prodrugs, pharmaceutical agents, drug metabolites,
biomarkers such as expressed proteins and cell markers, antibodies, serum proteins, cholesterol,
polysaccharides, nucleic acids, biological analytes, biomarker, gene, protein, or hormone, or any
combination thereof. At a molecular level, the biomarkers can be polypeptide, glycoprotein,
polysaccharide, lipid, nucleic acid, and a combination thereof.
[0134] Of particular interest are biomarkers associated with a particular disease or with a
specific disease stage. Such biomarkers include but are not limited to those associated with
autoimmune diseases, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, neuronal and/or muscular degenerative
diseases, cardiac diseases, endocrine disorders, any combinations thereof.
[0135] Also of interest are biomarkers that are present in varying abundance in one or more of
the body tissues including heart, liver, prostate, lung, kidney, bone marrow, blood, skin, bladder,
brain, muscles, nerves, and selected tissues that are affected by various disease, such as different
types of cancer (malignant or non-metastatic), autoimmune diseases, inflammatory or
degenerative diseases.
[0136] Also of interest are analytes that are indicative of a microorganism. Exemplary
microorganisms include but are not limited to bacterium, virus, fungus and protozoa. Other
biomarkers obtained from a subject also include blood-born pathogens selected from a non
limiting group that consists of Staphylococcus epidermidis, Escherichia coli, methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MSRA), Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus hominis,
Enterococcus faecalis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus capitis, Staphylococcus
warneri, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Haemophilus influnzae, Staphylococcus simulans,
Streptococcus pneumoniae and Candida albicans.

                                                 27
[0137] Biomarkers also encompass a variety of sexually transmitted diseases selected from the
following: gonorrhea (Neisseria gorrhoeae), syphilis (Treponena pallidum), clamydia (Clamyda
tracomitis), nongonococcal urethritis (Ureaplasm urealyticum), yeast infection (Candida
albicans), chancroid (Haemophilus ducreyi), trichomoniasis (Trichomonas vaginalis), genital
herpes (HSV type I & II), HIV I, HIV II and hepatitis A, B, C, G, as well as hepatitis caused by
TTV.
[0138] Biomarkers encompass a diversity of respiratory pathogens including but not limited to
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-resistant Staphlococccus aureus (MSRA), Klebsiella
pneumoniae, Haemophilis influenzae, Staphlococcus aureus, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia,
Haemophilis parainfluenzae, Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis, Serratia marcescens,
Haemophilis parahaemolyticus, Enterococcus cloacae, Candida albicans, Moraxiella catarrhalis,
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Citrobacter freundii, Enterococcus faecium, Klebsella oxytoca,
Pseudomonas fluorscens, Neiseria meningitidis, Streptococcus pyogenes, Pneumocystis carinii,
Klebsella pneumoniae Legionella pneumophila, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Mycobacterium
tuberculosis.
[0139] Listed below are additional exemplary markers according to the present invention:
Theophylline, CRP, CKMB, PSA, Myoglobin, CA125, Progesterone, TxB2, 6-keto-PGF-1
alpha, and Theophylline, Estradiol , Lutenizing hormone, High sensitivity CRP, Triglycerides,
Tryptase, Low density lipoprotein Cholesterol, High density lipoprotein Cholesterol,
Cholesterol, IGFR.
[0140] Exemplary liver markers include, without limitation, Arginase 1 (liver type), Alpha
fetoprotein (AFP), Alkaline phosphatase, Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), Lactate
dehydrogenase (LDH), Protein C, and Bilirubin.
[0141] Exemplary kidney markers include without limitation TNFa Receptor, Cystatin C,
Lipocalin-type urinary prostaglandin D, synthatase (LPGDS), Hepatocyte growth factor
receptor, Polycystin 2, Polycystin 1, Fibrocystin, Uromodulin, Alanine, aminopeptidase, N
acetyl-B-D-glucosaminidase, Albumin, and Retinol-binding protein (RBP).
[0142] Exemplary heart markers include without limitation Troponin I (TnI), Troponin T (TnT),
CK, CKMB, Myoglobin, Fatty acid binding protein (FABP), CRP, D-dimer, S-100 protein,
BNP, NT-proBNP, PAPP-A, Myeloperoxidase (MPO), Glycogen phosphorylase isoenzyme BB

                                                28
(GPBB), Thrombin Activatable Fibrinolysis Inhibitor (TAFI), Fibrinogen, Ischemia modified
albumin (IMA), Cardiotrophin-1, and MLC-I (Myosin Light Chain-I).
[0143] Exemplary pancreatric markers include without limitation Insulin, Amylase,
Pancreatitis-Assocoated protein (PAP-1), and Regeneratein proteins (REG).
[0144] Exemplary muscle tissue markers include without limitation Myostatin.
[0145] Exemplary blood markers include without limitation Erythopoeitin (EPO).
[0146] Exemplary bone markers include without limitation, Cross-linked N-telopeptides of bone
type I collagen (NTx)
Carboxyterminal cross-linking telopeptide of bone collagen, Lysyl-pyridinoline
(deoxypyridinoline), Pyridinoline, Tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase, Procollagen type I C
propeptide, Procollagen type I N propeptide, Osteocalcin (bone gla-protein), Alkaline
phosphatase, Cathepsin K, COMP (Cartillage Oligimeric Matrix Protein), Osteocrin
Osteoprotegerin (OPG), RANKL, sRANK, TRAP 5 (TRACP 5), Osteoblast Specific Factor 1
(OSF-1, Pleiotrophin), Soluble cell adhesion molecules, sTfR, sCD4, sCD8, sCD44, and
Osteoblast Specific Factor 2 (OSF-2, Periostin).
[0147] In some embodiments markers according to the present invention are disease specific.
Exemplary cancer markers include without limitation PSA (total prostate specific antigen),
Creatinine, Prostatic acid phosphatase, PSA complexes, Prostrate-specific gene-1, CA 12-5,
Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA), Alpha feto protein (AFP) , hCG (Human chorionic
gonadotropin), Inhibin, CAA Ovarian C1824, CA 27.29, CA 15-3, CAA Breast C1924, Her-2,
Pancreatic, CA 19-9, Carcinoembryonic Antigen, CAA pancreatic, Neuron-specific enolase,
Angiostatin
DcR3 (Soluble decoy receptor 3), Endostatin, Ep-CAM (MK-1), Free Immunoglobulin Light
Chain Kappa, Free Immunoglobulin Light Chain Lambda, Herstatin, Chromogranin A,
Adrenomedullin, Integrin, Epidermal growth factor receptor, Epidermal growth factor receptor
Tyrosine kinase, Pro-adrenomedullin N-terminal 20 peptide, Vascular endothelial growth factor,

                                               29
Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, Stem cell factor receptor, c-kit/KDR, KDR, and
Midkine.
[0148] Exemplary infectious disease markers include without limitation Viremia, Bacteremia,
Sepsis, PMN Elastase, PMN elastase/ ul-PI complex, Surfactant Protein D (SP-D), HBVc
antigen, HBVs antigen, Anti-HBVc, Anti-HIV, T-supressor cell antigen, T-cell antigen ratio, T
helper cell antigen, Anti-HCV, Pyrogens, p24 antigen, Muramyl-dipeptide.
[0149] Exemplary diabetes markers include without limitation C-Peptide, Hemoglobin AIc,
Glycated albumin, Advanced glycosylation end products (AGEs), 1,5-anhydroglucitol, Gastric
Inhibitory Polypeptide, Insulin, Glucose, Hemoglobin, ANGPTL3 and 4.
[0150] Exemplary inflammation markers include without limitation Rheumatoid factor (RF),
Tumor Necrosis factor-a (TNF-ca), Antinuclear Antibody (ANA), C-reactive protein (CRP),
Clara Cell Protein (Uteroglobin).
[0151] Exemplary allergy markers include without limitation Total IgE and Specific IgE.
[0152] Exemplary autism markers include without limitation Ceruloplasmin, Metalothioneine,
Zinc, Copper, B6, B12, Glutathione, Alkaline phosphatase, and Activation of apo-alkaline
phosphatase.
[0153] Exemplary coagulation disorders markers include without limitation b-Thromboglobulin,
Platelet factor 4, Von Willebrand factor.
[0154] In some embodiments a marker may be therapy specific. COX inhibitors include without
limitation TxB2 (Cox-1), 6-keto-PGF-1-alpha (Cox 2), 11-Dehydro-TxB-l a (Cox-1).
[0155] Other markers of the present include without limitation Leptin, Leptin receptor, and
Procalcitonin, Brain S100 protein, Substance P, 8-Iso-PGF-2a.
[0156] Exemplary geriatric markers include without limitation, Neuron-specific enolase, GFAP,
and S1OOB.

                                                 30
[0157] Exemplary markers of nutritional status include without limitation Prealbumin, Albumin,
Retinol-binding protein (RBP), Transferrin, Acylation-Stimulating Protein (ASP), Adiponectin,
Agouti-Related Protein (AgRP), Angiopoietin-like Protein 4 (ANGPTL4, FIAF), C-peptide,
AFABP (Adipocyte Fatty Acid Binding Protein, FABP4)
Acylation-Stimulating Protein (ASP), EFABP (Epidermal Fatty Acid Binding Protein, FABP5),
Glicentin, Glucagon, Glucagon-Like Peptide-1, Glucagon-Like Peptide-2, Ghrelin, Insulin,
Leptin, Leptin Receptor, PYY, RELMs, Resistin, amd sTfR (soluble Transferrin Receptor).
[0158] Exemplary markers of lipid metabolism include without limitation Apo-lipoproteins
(several), Apo-Al, Apo-B, Apo-C-CII, Apo-D, Apo-E.
[0159] Exemplary coagulation status markers include without limitation Factor I: Fibrinogen,
Factor II: Prothrombin, Factor III: Tissue factor, Factor IV: Calcium, Factor V: Proaccelerin,
Factor VI, Factor VII: Proconvertin, Factor VIII:, Anti-hemolytic factor, Factor IX: Christmas
factor, Factor X: Stuart-Prower factor, Factor XI: Plasma thromboplastin antecedent, Factor XII:
Hageman factor, Factor XIII: Fibrin-stabilizing factor, Prekallikrein, High-molecular-weight
kininogen, Protein C, Protein S, D-dimer, Tissue plasminogen activator, Plasminogen, a2
Antiplasmin, Plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAIl).
[0160] Exemplary monoclonal antibodies include those for EGFR, ErbB2, and IGF1R.
[0161] Exemplary tyrosine kinase inhibitors include without limitation Ab 1, Kit, PDGFR, Src,
ErbB2, ErbB 4, EGFR, EphB, VEGFR1-4, PDGFRb, FLt3, FGFR, PKC, Met, Tie2, RAF, and
TrkA.
[0162] Exemplary Serine/Threoline Kinase Inhibitors include without limitation AKT, Aurora
A/B/B, CDK, CDK (pan), CDK1 -2, VEGFR2, PDGFRb, CDK4/6, MEKI -2, mTOR, and PKC
beta.
[0163] GPCR targets include without limitation Histamine Receptors, Serotonin Receptors,
Angiotensin Receptors, Adrenoreceptors, Muscarinic Acetylcholine Receptors, GnRH
Receptors, Dopamine Receptors, Prostaglandin Receptors, and ADP Receptors.

                                                  31
[0164] In a separate embodiment, a method herein utilizes pharmacological parameters useful
for assessing efficacy and/or toxicity of a therapeutic agent and the agent's affect on a medical
condition. For the purposes of this invention, a "therapeutic agent" is intended to include any
substances that have therapeutic utility and/or potential. Such substances include but are not
limited to biological or chemical compounds such as simple or complex organic or inorganic
molecules, peptides, proteins (for example, antibodies) or a polynucleotides (for example, anti
sense). A vast array of compounds can be synthesized, for example, polymers, such as
polypeptides and polynucleotides, and synthetic organic compounds based on various core
structures, and these are also included in the term "therapeutic agent". In addition, various
natural sources can provide compounds for screening, such as plant or animal extracts, and the
like. It should be understood, although not always explicitly stated that the agent is used alone or
in combination with another agent, having the same or different biological activity as the agents
identified by the inventive screen. The agents and methods also are intended to be combined
with other therapies.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE METHODS
[0165] It is to be understood that the exemplary methods and systems described herein may be
implemented in various forms of hardware, software, firmware, special purpose processors, or a
combination thereof. Methods herein can be implemented in software as an application program
tangibly embodied on one or more program storage devices. The application program may be
executed by any machine, device, or platform comprising suitable architecture. It is to be further
understood that, because some of the systems and methods depicted in the Figures are preferably
implemented in software, the actual connections between the system components (or the process
steps) may differ depending upon the manner in which the present invention is programmed.
Given the teachings herein, one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate or
practice these and similar implementations or configurations of the present invention.
[0166] Fig. 9 illustrates the process flow of building the model and system for assessing the
medical condition of a subject. The subject inputs personal data into a database. The same or a
different database contains data from other subjects with a similar medical condition. Data from
the other subjects can be historical data from public or private institutions. Data from other
subjects may also be internal data from a clinical study.

                                                  32
[0167] The subject may input data in a variety of ways, or using a variety of devices. For
example, a point-of-care microfluidic device may be used to acquire biomarker data at the point
of-care. The data from the device may then be communicated directly from the device to a
database or processor. A computer or data entry system may also input subject data to a database
or processor. Data may be automatically obtained and input into a computer from another
computer or data entry system. Another method of inputting data to a database is using an input
device such as a keyboard, touch screen, trackball, or a mouse for directly entering data into a
database.
[0168] A database is developed for a medical condition in which relevant clinical information is
filtered or mined over a communication network (for example, the Internet) from one or more
data sources, such as a public remote database, an internal remote database, and a local database.
A public database can include online sources of free clinical data for use by the general public,
such as, for example, databases supplied by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
For example, an internal database can be a private internal database belonging to particular
hospital, or a SMS (Shared Medical System) for providing clinical data. A local database can
comprise, for example, biomarker data relating to discrete clinical outcome. The local database
may include data from a clinical trial. It may also include clinical data such as temperature and
laboratory information, EKG results, blood test results, patient survey responses, or other items
from patients in a hospital or an internal hospital monitoring system. The database can also
include historical reference data of a plurality of subject members in relationship to at least one
biological marker.
[0169] The database may also be implemented on a variety of commercially available authoring
packages.
[0170] The database may be of a storage unit of a medical information system.
[0171] Data from a database can be filtered and classified according to specific cases or medical
conditions or a group of diagnoses and conditions. For example, the classification within the
database may follow the standard international code of diagnoses (ICD-9 coding system). A
medical condition may include, for example, a physical state of a subject or a disease that the
subject is suffering from.

                                                   33
[0172] In an embodiment, the data stored in the database may be selected from the categories
consisting of: pathology, anatomy, treatment option, treatment outcome, pharmacological
parameter, pharmacokinetics parameter, psychological parameter, and genomic information.
[0173] Subject data can be stored with a unique identifier for recognition by a processor or a
user. In another step, the processor or user can conduct a search of stored data by selecting at
least one criterion for particular patient data. The particular patient data can then be retrieved.
[0174] Relationships can be established between elements of the public databases, the internal
databases and the subject data. Explicit relationships declare and record inferences made based
on information revealed by the trajectory or other available observations.
[0175] Fig. 9 illustrates the flow of data from a database that includes the data from the subject
to a processor that performs the mathematical methods described herein to construct a
probability space. The subject data may also be inputted to the processor separately from the
data pertaining to a discrete clinical outcome that is stored in a database.
[0176] A processor can perform calculating the probability space. Once a probability space map
is prepared, the same processor or a different processor can plot biomarker data from an
individual subject within the probability space. The probability space map itself can be
transmitted to an output, such as a display monitor. The position of the subject data within the
probability space may also be transmitted to an output. The processor may have a means for
receiving patient data directly from an input device, a means of storing the subject data in a
storage unit, and a means for processing data. The processor may also include a means for
receiving instructions a user or a user interface. The processor may have memory, such as
random access memory, as is well known in the art. In one embodiment, an output that is in
communication with the processor is provided.
[0177] A user interface refers to graphical, textual, or auditory information presented to a user.
User interface may also refer to the control sequences used for controlling a program or device,
such as keystrokes, movements, or selections.
[0178] A user interface may be a commercial software application for displaying subject data
and/or the position of the subject data in a probability space. The user interface generally
provides users with access to a task-specific set of functions to view and modify content. In

                                                   34
preferable embodiments of the invention, the user interface is a graphical user interface (GUI).
In some embodiments, a constructed probability space in two dimensions can be viewed using a
GUI. Also, the trajectory of subject data positioned within the probability space can be viewed
using a GUI. The GUI may be displayed on a display monitor. Other user interfaces that may be
utilized with the methods of the invention include, but are not limited to, alert systems, web
based interfaces, text interfaces, sound interfaces, batch interfaces, and intelligent interfaces. In
an embodiment of the invention, the user interface can remotely communicate with the system.
[0179] By acquiring data from a subject at multiple points in time, a trajectory of the subject
data can be processed. For each time point, a processor may calculate the position of the subject
data time point in a probability space. A trajectory is created by connecting at least two time
points of subject data. Different vector parameters of the trajectory can be calculated such as
distance, speed, direction, and acceleration. The vector parameters can be calculated by a
processor. The processor may be the same as or different than the processor used to construct
the probability space.
[0180] Based upon rules imposed by a user, the position or trajectory of subject data may
activate an alert. The alert or alert system notifies the user when the subject data conflicts with a
rule imposed by a user. For example, a rule may comprise the probability of a subject of
developing an adverse drug reaction (ADR) is greater than 60 percent. When the probability of
the subject data exceeds the rule, an alert is communicated to a user.
[0181] Examples of an alert include, but are not limited to, a sound, a light, a printout, a readout,
a display, a page, an e-mail, a fax alert, telephonic communication, or a combination thereof.
The alert may communicate to the user the raw subject data, the calculated position in
probability space of the subject data, the trajectory of the subject data, or a combination thereof.
[0182] A user is most preferably medical personnel. In an embodiment, the same user has
access to the subject data, establishes the rules for alerting the user, and is alerted by the alert.
The user may also be the subject. For example, a diabetic patient may monitor his personal
glucose levels or other biomarker levels. In another embodiment, a user has access to the subject
data at any step of the mathematical model.
[0183] Fig. 10 demonstrates a networking method of assessing the medical condition of a
subject. A system of communicating information may or may not include a reader for reading

                                                  35
subject data. For example, if biomarker data is acquired by a microfluidic point-of-care device,
the values assigned to different individual biomarkers may be read by the device itself or a
separate device. Another example of a reader would be a system to scan in subject data that has
been entered in an electronic medical record or a physician chart. A further example of a reader
would consist of an electronic patient record database from which subject data could be directly
obtained via the communications network.
[0184] A user station may be incorporated into the methods and systems herein. The user station
can act as a reader for reading subject data or as a data entry system. The user station may also
be used to communicate data information directly to a user, such as medical personnel or the
subject. The user station platform may be a computer or one of a wide variety of hardware
platforms that runs any operating system. The platform may read and write to and from a storage
unit. A storage unit may be incorporated within the user station. As will be readily apparent to
those of ordinary skill in the art, other hardware may be used to execute the methods of the
invention.
[0185] According to still further embodiments, a server may be provided for use in assessing a
medical condition of a subject. In some embodiments, a reader and/or user station communicates
with a server. The server may comprise a network interface and a processor. A storage unit may
also be provided in the server. The storage unit is coupled to receive the patient data from the
input device, reader, or user interface, and to store the patient data.
[0186] The storage unit may be any device capable of storing data for a long period of time,
either as a component of the platform, or as a separate entity that is coupled to the network.
Although any appropriate storage capacity may be used, the capacity is typically at least ten
megabytes and more usually at least twenty gigabytes. The storage unit may be permanent or
removable. For example, the storage unit may be as magnetic random access, such as flexible or
hard disk drive, magnetic sequential access, such as tape, optical random access such as CD,
DVD or Magnetic Optical drive, and solid state memory, such as EPROM, MRAM and Flash.
In addition, the present invention anticipates other storage devices. All of the aforementioned
storage units are by way of example and are not intended to limit the choices that are or may
become available in the art.

                                                  36
[0187] In some embodiments, the data are further manipulated prior to storage by the processor
compressing the data. Some data are very large and compression permits conservation of storage
space. In the absence of compression, this large amount of data may present a particular problem
for the storage of medical information.
[0188] In other embodiments of a system for assessing the medical condition of a subject, data
storage, processing and control of data are implemented on a server that is in communication
with a user station. Optionally, computations with the data may be performed on the server as
well. In this client-server embodiment, the server is communicatively coupled to one or more
user stations by local area network (LAN), implemented with Ethernet, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, USB
or Firewire, a Wide Area Network (WAN) such as the Internet, implemented by broadband
cable, xDSL, TI, metropolitan Wi-Fi or other high speed communications down to plain-old
telephone-service (POTS).
[0189] A user station is in communication with a server to output the information processed by
the server. The user station may be the same or different from the user station or device used to
input subject data into the system. The user station may also be an alert or a warning system.
Examples of a user station include, but are not limited to, a computer, a PDA, a wireless
telephone, and a personal device, such as an iPod. The user station may be in communication
with a printer or a display monitor to output the information processed by the server.
[0190] In a networked system comprising a server, any number devices may be members of a
medical network enterprise and access a central collection of medical data stored in a server. A
given user station may have access to enormous amounts of patient data from healthcare sources
anywhere in the world. In one application, data from multiple practitioners are accumulated for
defined clinical trial studies.
[0191] Statistical information is provided to the user of the system, preferably at the point-of
care. The point-of-care is where treatment is implemented. Advantageously, the dynamic and
real-time characteristics of Internet usage are captured in this feature. This enables medical
personnel or the subject either in the office or in the field to instantaneously be notified of and
presented with, for example, a subject's medical condition and statistical information pertaining
to the subject data.

                                                  37
[0192] The user station, alert system, or output device may encrypt the data prior to data
transmission. The data can also be encrypted by the processor to protect private information. A
variety of encryption schemes may be used, such as public key encryption or private key
encryption. The encryption components may be stand-alone components or software
components. The server may also include a decryption unit for decrypting received subject data
prior to storage.
[0193] In an alternative embodiment, if the communication bandwidth between the user and the
server becomes restrictive (for example, if the server is "down"), the model can be duplicated
and reside in a mirror server at a user station. Updates and communications between the server
and the mirror server can be done off-line at predetermined times. On-line requests from the
user can be handled locally by the mirror server. This alternative provides increased reliability
for users, since the on-line processes do not depend on outside networks.
[0194] In an alternative configuration of the data analysis system, client-based architecture is
used where storage, data processing and computations are performed on a user station. An input
device transmits data from a source to a platform. The platform is coupled to a display through a
display controller. The display may be any one of a number of conventional display devices,
such as a liquid crystal display or video display. The platform contains a storage unit, a
processor and an interface for communicating with the input device. The storage unit has a
database for storing, manipulating and retrieving subject data. The storage unit also may store
and run an operating system. The user station platform may be a computer or one of a wide
variety of hardware platforms that runs any operating system. The platform may read and write
to and from its storage unit. As will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art, other
hardware may be used to execute the software.
[0195] In another aspect, computer readable instructions are provided, which when executed
cause a processor to: provide a probability space defined by a set of discrete clinical outcomes,
each of which is characterized by a statistical distribution of at least one biological marker;
obtain subject data corresponding to the at least one biological marker; and calculate the
position of said subject data in said probability space to assess the probability of a medical
condition of said subject.

                                                 38
[0196] The computer readable instructions may be a part of a software package. The software
package can be provided with a server of the invention or an input device, such as a microfluidic
point-of-care device.
[0197] In an embodiment, computer readable instructions comprise instructions for creating a
trajectory between two time points of subject data. The instructions may also cause a processor
to calculate vector parameter of a trajectory, such as speed, position, heading, and acceleration.
[0198] Computer readable instructions may direct a processor or output device to output the
assessment of a medical condition. The instructions, when executed, may display a graphical
representation on a monitor, print an output on a printer, or activate an alert or alarm.
[0199] In another aspect, computer readable instructions may be stored in a computer readable
medium. In some embodiments, the computer readable medium that stores instructions is a
storage unit as described herein. Still other embodiments may provide a computer readable
medium having stored therein a plurality of sequences of instructions, which, when executed by
a processor, execute a method of the invention.
[0200] The computer readable instructions when executed can cause a processor to provide a
user defined alert condition based on an assessment of trajectory parameters of the subject data
in the probability space. In an embodiment, the trajectory parameters are at least one of speed,
acceleration, direction, and position.
[0201] As used herein, a "computer readable medium" refers to any medium which can be read
and accessed directly by a computer or a processor. Featured computer readable media include,
but are not limited to, magnetic storage medium, optical storage medium, electrical storage
medium, and hybrid storage medium of any of these categories.
[0202] The computer readable instructions can operate in a software runtime environment of the
processor. In an embodiment, a software runtime environment provides commonly used
functions and facilities required by the software package. Examples of a software runtime
environment include, but are not limited to, computer operating systems, virtual machines or
distributed operating systems. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art, several
other examples of runtime environment exist.

                                                  39
[0203] The computer readable medium may be a storage unit of the present invention as
described herein. It is appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable medium can
also be any available media that can be accessed by a server, a processor, or a computer.
[0204] Computer readable media includes volatile and non-volatile, removable and non
removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as
computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other data. Computer
storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory or
other solid state memory technology, CD-ROM, DVD, or other optical storage, magnetic
cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other
medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the
computer. A skilled artisan can readily adopt any of the presently known methods for recording
information on a computer readable medium.
[0205] The computer readable medium can be incorporated as part of the computer-based
system of the present invention, and can be employed for a computer-based assessment of a
medical condition.
HEALTHCARE OPERATING SYSTEM
[0206] Different aspects of the invention can be used and developed for healthcare systems.
Examples of such systems include point-of-care systems, a healthcare operating system or a
combination of both. For example, a user may test a blood sample with a device and the
information from the test can be provided to a system or method of the invention, which in turn
sends additional information to the user.
[0207] In an embodiment, a healthcare system is part of an integrated infrastructure built around
real-time, point-of-care disposable blood monitoring devices which analyze about 10 microliter
samples in a similar manner to automated replication of the manual processes run by a central
laboratory. In an integrated infrastructure, information can be wirelessly transmit from an assay
device to a database which integrates data from the device with stored data from disparate
databases (patient record, genetic or genomic information, data from clinical trials) into a central
database. The system can then allow for the automatic application of mathematics to the
database in the context of the pathophysiology of a given disorder. For example, a healthcare
system can be used to rapidly improve the label of key drugs through adaptive clinical studies

                                                    40
which can generate publications for label expansions for new indications, patient
subpopulations, and for ameliorating safety concerns.
[0208] In an embodiment of the invention, a healthcare system can be utilized for home, real
time blood monitoring has significant implications which allow us to collect information which
cannot be seen using the conventional blood testing infrastructure.
[0209] Fig. 11 illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a system of the invention. Real-time
acquisition of subject data can be accomplished using a point-of-care device. The point-of-care
device can acquire, store, and/or manage information based upon a specific disease or
compound. The point-of-care device may also be in communication with the user or a computer
or system belonging to the user. A point-of-care environment in this example can be the home or
the clinic. Also illustrated in Fig. 11 is transmitting information in real-time from the point-of
care device to a server or system that is capable of converting the information or data to a
physiologically relevant context. This can be accomplished by transferring the information to a
database or a plurality of databases. The databases can be on a server or a plurality of servers. In
an embodiment, a centralized database repository is used to analyze the data and return the data
to an end user in a physiologically relevant context. The data can be returned and, in the
example of Fig. 11, information, such as clinically relevant and actionable information, can be
returned to a user through browser-based software applications. The information could be used
for adaptive clinical trials and publications if the end user is a medical researcher or
pharmaceutical company.
[0210] A system of the invention comprising a point-of-care device in communication with a
healthcare system may not require the transfer of samples, such as transportation to a laboratory,
which in turn, can improve the integrity of a sample. Detection of an analyte in a system or
method of the invention can be provided in real-time at the point-of-care. Real-time detection
integrated with a healthcare central database system can allow for the creation of complex
longitudinal data series acquired by an immunoassay device.
[0211] Fig. 12 demonstrates an exemplary system of the invention, wherein a health care
operating system comprises data infrastructure, models and algorithms, and software
applications. The data infrastructure can be used by a pharmaceutical company for clinical trials
across an entire pharmaceutical pipeline. A model or algorithm of the health care operating

                                                   41
system can comprise, for example, predictive and dynamic, multivariate, multi-dimensional
models that can be customized for program-specific objectives and that can map disease
progression and regression. A system can be integrated with back-end algorithms, models, and
data in the data infrastructure. For example, a system can transmit individualized content to
users on device touch-screens or mobile phones. The feedback may assist with behavior
modification and increase compliance with therapy. The algorithms described herein enable
correlation of blood data to efficacy dynamics profiles, behavior, lifestyle, diet, and side-effects.
[0212] Content can be based on data for patient classes, which recognize physiological and
psychological pre-dispositions as well as local socio-environmental influences. In another
embodiment, a system can link users through social networks, where success stories compound
through the combination of each tailored home health system with a given therapy.
[0213] The health care operating system can interact at the point-of-care with consumer
systems, such as an assay cartridge, an assay reading device, or a mobile device such as a cell
phone. The field units can be integrated with point-of-care home and mobile monitoring
systems. Field units can be remote, portable patient care systems and can provide on-site, real
time, automatic processing of cartridges for blood analysis. In some instances, field units
comprise a user interface, allowing patient to initiate assays and graphically enter a variety of
relevant information, such as: patient diaries, environmental, behavioral, and psychological
information, and two-way communication system from the instruments to medical personnel or
mobile phones and back to patients with relevant content, messages, and health information. In
some instances, blood and environmental data is automatically (for example, wirelessly)
transmitted into models in real time.
[0214] As described herein, a health care operating system can comprise information integration
and exploitation infrastructure that permits, for example without limitation: data acquisition and
storage of point-of-care results in real time, integration of blood parameters and patient diary
data with all other physiologically relevant information, and a central mathematical software
program. The central mathematical software program can graphically visualize, help to interpret,
and analyze all data in one place and link any new information into a disease management
system that then maps the information onto a probability space of clinical outcomes. A health
care operating system or a field unit can provide a graphical display of clinically relevant and
actionable information back to the health care provider and/or the patient or user.

                                                   42
[0215] Possible applications for a healthcare system of the invention include, but are not limited
to, an integrated link to an adaptive clinical trial or healthcare management system, drug and
systems combinations for post-prescription monitoring, a healthcare operating system (for
example, a server controlled point of care whole blood monitoring systems), and identification
of correlations to efficacy of key compounds during clinical studies.
[0216] In an embodiment, a system can provide a graphical portrayal of integration of available
data sets to a user.
[0217] In another embodiment, a system of the invention can generate data that may serve as
historical data in future studies. A system can be customized according a the needs of a user, for
example, extracting relevant information from a pharmaceutical company's existing databases, a
central mathematical software program which allows a pharmaceutical company to visually see,
interpret, and analyze all of their data in a place and is linked to a clinical trial system.
[0218] When utilized with clinical trials of pharmaceuticals, a system of the invention can
provide an understanding of compound efficacy, disease progression and patient response that
may not be possible using the conventional blood testing infrastructure.
[0219] A database and a healthcare system can be customized to monitor trends protein assays
over time and their relationship to disease progression across different indications while
accounting for the other relevant variables or biomarkers in the pathophysiology of the disease.
The customization can be designed to automatically incorporate all relevant data for use in
mapping disease progression across relevant indications and are the foundation of historical
data. The maps and baselines can be used in designing future studies and in future studies to
extract better information from blood test results and provide early reads on efficacy across
different indications.
[0220] Fig. 13 demonstrates an exemplary database comprising an ontology of biomarkers that
are related some types of medical conditions. For example, sepsis as a disease is categorized as a
pathophysiology and is linked in this ontology to Acute Liver Failure (ALF), Disseminated
Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) and the like. Each of these pathologies can be considered a
sequellae of sepsis in the context of this ontology. In this example, a drug used to treat sepsis is
CytoFab. In some instances, the sequellae can be characterized by the spectra of biomarkers as

                                                   43
described in Fig. 13. For example, ALF is characterized by specific patterns of ALT, AST,
GGT, and Alkaline phosphatase.
[0221] In an aspect of the invention, the methods, devices and systems disclosed herein can
comprise a healthcare operating system. A healthcare operating system can comprise a central
control system for delivery of care to consumer and for an economic model for payors and
payees.
[0222] In an embodiment, a healthcare operating system can provide an early system possibly to
detect the onset of disease. A system can further comprise a learning engine that ties to the
preferences of a user or an insurance provider based on drug availability, targeted response rate,
or payment structure.
[0223] A computer system or server of the invention can include a dynamic learning engine, for
example, as the system or server receives data, the operations of the system or server can be
updated. A system or server can also call in to siloed databases, extracts, and locally store
(permanently or temporarily) information in a central data repository.
[0224] In another embodiment, a healthcare system can comprise a communications portal for a
user to communicate an array of information to the system, such as weight, nicotine
consumption, food consumption, exercise, and physchiatric variables.
[0225] Fig. 14 illustrates an example hierarchy of a healthcare operating system of the
invention. The central operating system has access to a data infrastructure and monitoring
devices for obtaining subject data. As demonstrated in the example in Fig. 14, the data
infrastructure can comprise a search tool, communication links, analysis of data, and
applications. For example, a communications link can communicate to a consumer, clinician, or
HMO. A clinician can use the information for simplification and effectiveness of his decision
making or as a data/knowledge base background. An HMO could for example receive
information of a clinical trial, such as drug efficacy and the costs of the drug use. Analysis of
information in the data infrastructure as illustrated in Fig. 14 can include generation of a
trajectory, fuzzy logic guidance, collaborative filtering prediction, disease maps, and data
reports for clinical trials or new drug discovery. Examples of applications of a data
infrastructure include reports (public or private), alerts (for example alerts of a user, clinician,
clinical trial, or a pharmacy), and dynamic, adjustable trials.

                                                   44
[0226] Also demonstrated in Fig. 14 is the hierarchy of information received by the exemplary
operating system from monitoring devices. The devices and operating system can monitor and
release drugs if necessary. In a preferable embodiment, the devices monitor analytes in a bodily
fluid. For example, when monitoring blood, the devices may be capable of executing
prescription blood tests for a clinical or preventative setting or evaluate drug systems as
demonstrated.
[0227] In an aspect, a system is disclosed that solicits input from the user or his agent (for
example, a physician) to facilitate a conversation between the subject and his agent about the
status of the person's health at a time. Examples of input that can be solicited by a system
include, but are not limited to, establishing alert levels, medical notation, and personal notation.
The system can acquire clinically relevant information about a person and place the information
in a physiologically-reasonable context. Examples of clinically relevant information include, but
are not limited to, age, gender, race, medical history, and genomic information.
[0228] In an embodiment, time dependent data can be representative of overall clinical health or
response, including a diagnosed disease condition that requires monitoring, a response profile
for a particular drug or combination of drugs, or subject observed observations of his health.
[0229] Calculated or observed information can be provided to a user. Examples of users include,
but are not limited to, a patient, a physician, a clinical monitor for a clinical trial, and other
medical personnel.
[0230] Information can also be integrated into a central repository for inclusion into, for
example, a medical record or a clinical trial report.
[0231] Fig. 15 demonstrates an exemplary system of the invention wherein an analysis database
can receive information from a database containing data from a reader or cartridge database,
historical databases, a patient database that can contain data entered by a patient, and a customer
database. Other features of a system of the invention are demonstrated in Fig. 15. The system is
capable of performing analysis on data received by the system. The analysis can be any method
as described herein and can include developing or utilizing a disease map, using statistics for a
statistically analysis of information within the system, reports or graphs, and/or a combination
of the different methods as described.

                                                  45
[0232] Fig. 15 also illustrates a user interface that may be utilized in a system of the invention.
The user interface can interact with any of the components demonstrated in Fig. 15. In a
preferable embodiment, the user interface allows a user to interface with the system to determine
test data or analysis outcomes, such as physiologically relevant information. The user interface
may be a touch screen, monitor, keyboard, mouse, or any other item that allows a user to interact
with a system of the invention as would be obvious to one skilled in the art.
[0233] As shown in Fig. 15, a system can be utilized to manage a reader or point-of-care device.
This can include management of a cartridge to be inserted into the reader for measurement of
data. For example, the system can provide the reader a protocol for running an immunoassay of
the cartridge. A system of the invention can also provide information to the reader for
calibration of the immunoassays run on the cartridge that are run or executed by the reader.
Reader management can also include information for assigning the reader for the appropriate
reading system for reading an immunoassay from a point-of-care cartridge. Reader management
can also include corrective and preventive actions (CAPA), which is an instrument of integrated
and comprehensive compliance management. An element of the CAPA approach is an effective
and systematic processing of quality deficiencies, errors and malfunctions with the goal to
provide appropriate corrective actions and consistently prevent a reoccurrence of non
conformance situations. The CAPA strategy was developed by the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) for the inspection of medical products.
[0234] Systems and methods described herein can be used for pharmaceutical clinical trials. In
some instances, the systems and methods accelerate trial timelines by an average of 18 months.
In some instances, a system or method herein may provide dose-response and efficacy dynamics
profiles in less than 18 months, less than 15 months, less than 12 months, less than 10 months,
less than 9 months or even less than 6 months. Real-time pharmacokinetics and
pharmacodynamics may provide better efficacy and more safety information. The methods
herein may also decrease the risk of toxicity slowing approval or restricting use by shifting dose
across: sub-populations, concomitant medications, and multiple indications. In other instances, a
system or method herein can improve predictive visibility into pathway dynamics. A model as
describe can produce predictive insights and power strategic decisions. A system can support
communications with regulatory authorities internationally and can facilitate 'learn and confirm'
strategy for adaptive clinical trials.

                                                  46
[0235] A system herein can include a data management system. The data management system
can be operated through a plurality of devices or systems, or by a single central server. An
example of data management of a system of the invention is shown in Fig. 15. A data
management system can receive input or output from, for example, a point-of-care reader, a
database (such as an analysis database or a historical database), and a terminal (such as a user
interface). A data management system can also conduct storage management, for example,
storage of a patient's individual data or storage of information related to a particular disease or
drug profile. For example, if using a system and/or method of the present invention to conduct a
clinical trial on an experimental drug, the data management and storage management systems
can receive data from the point-of-care from a reader, and then store the information in
databases for analysis of the data. Both the patient data and the analysis data may then be stored
for future use of a system. For example, if one side effect is noted in a patient in Phase I of a
clinical trial, that side effect information may be used for the analysis of results of a patient in
Phase III of the clinical trial. As another example, a diabetic individual may receive a glucose
measurement at an earlier time, which may then be used to evaluate the condition of the
individual at a later time following another measurement.
EXAMPLE 1
Prostate cancer and anti-angiogenesis treatment
[0236] A Phase I or Phase Ila clinical trial for treating a subject diagnosed with prostate cancer
with an anti-angiogenic drug allows for dose adjustments during the trial. The subject is
monitored over a course of time during the clinical study. The method of action of the anti
angiogenic drug is to halt the growth of blood vessels in and around the tumor, thereby
depriving the tumor of adequate blood supply. This may induce ischemia and nutritional
necrosis in the tumor, thereby debulking the tumor.
[0237] After the method of action is determined, discrete clinical outcomes are chosen by
medical personnel, such as a physician or clinical monitor. The discrete clinical outcomes
chosen in this example are complete response (CR), partial response (PR), non-response (NR),
and adverse drug reaction (ADR). The ADR related to the anti-angiogenic drug is hypertensive
encephalopathy in this example.

                                                  47
[0238] Six biomarkers representative of the clinical outcome of the subject with prostate cancer
are chosen to define the discrete clinical outcomes. The biomarkers are PSA, TPS, hK2,
VCAM-1, Endothelin-1, and 6-keto-PGF-1-a. Using these biomarkers and the corresponding
historical data on the progression of prostate cancer treatments with anti-angiogenic drugs as
well as data from other subjects in the clinical trial, a cluster analysis is performed. Each
discrete clinical outcome is assigned to a centroid of one of the clusters.
[0239] Before the subject is treated with the drug, the subject is assigned a position in the
probability space based upon the subject's data from the relevant biomarkers. The probability of
the subject belonging any of the discrete clinical outcome classes is determined using the
Mahalanobis distance, from which a probability is calculated using a Bayesian estimation. The
result of this calculation returns the four probabilities corresponding to the four clinical
outcomes of the example. The position of the subject is determined by plotting the four
probabilities in the probability space.
[0240] The probability space corresponding to four clinical outcomes is graphically displayed as
a square in two dimensions. The user of the model, in this example, medical personnel,
establishes rules for the medical condition of the subject based the subject data's position and/or
trajectory in the probability space. Each discrete clinical outcome has a line representing the rule
established by the medical personnel, as shown by the dashed lines in Fig. 16. When the subject
crosses the dotted line towards the CR or PR conditions, the subject is substantially free of ADR
and has improved his/her prognosis.
[0241] In Fig. 16 , the trajectories of two different subjects are plotted. Subject 1 has a trajectory
that starts in the middle of the probability space and then heads towards the ADR condition. In
this example, the medical personnel may notice the trajectory's speed or acceleration and
intervene in the treatment. When Subject l's trajectory crosses the dotted line towards the ADR
condition, an alarm is activated. The medical personnel react accordingly.
[0242] Subject 2 has a trajectory that heads towards the NR condition. The dose of the anti
angiogenic drug treatment is adjusted corresponding to the rules established by the medical
personnel. After the adjustment of the dose, the trajectory heading changes towards the PR
condition. The example illustrates a method and embodiment of the invention for monitoring a
clinical trial.

                                                    48
EXAMPLE 2
Sepsis and Anti-TNF treatment
[0243] Subjects with confirmed or suspected sepsis or systemic inflammatory response
syndrome (SIRS) are treated with an anti-TNF therapeutic during a Phase Ilb (dose adjustment
allowed) or a Phase III (no dose adjustment allowed) clinical trial. The subject is monitored over
a course of time during the clinical study. The method of action of the anti-TNF drug is anti
inflammatory. The drug is aimed at preventing or circumscribing downstream sequellae of
sepsis. Typically, the anti-TNF drug is given in conjunction with a broad spectrum antibiotic.
[0244] After the method of action is determined, discrete clinical outcomes are chosen by a
physician. The discrete clinical outcomes chosen in this example are response (R), non-response
(NR), and four sequellae (disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), acute respiratory
distress syndrome (ARDS), acute liver failure (ALF), and acute renal failure (ARF)).
[0245] Twenty biomarkers representative of the medical condition of the subject with confirmed
or suspected sepsis are chosen to define the discrete clinical outcomes. In this example, the
biomarkers fall into multiple categories to monitor the different discrete clinical outcomes as
defined by the physician. Lipoprotein Binding Protein (LBP) biomarkers measure infectious
growth and the R and NR conditions. The LBP biomarkers are LBP, TNF, CRP, IL-6, and IL-8.
Biomarkers that are relevant to the DIC condition are von Willebrand's factor, Protein C,
thrombin, procalcitonin, neopterin, and PAF-1. The biomarkers of the ARDS condition are von
Willebrand's factor, IL-6, IL-8, IL-I, and TNF. The biomarkers of the ALF condition are ALT,
AST, GGT, LDH, Alkaline phophatase, bilirubin, and Protein C. The biomarkers of the ARF
condition are Creatinine and Cystin C.
[0246] Using the biomarkers described in this example and the corresponding historical data on
the progression of sepsis and the treatment of sepsis with anti-TNF therapeutics as well as data
from other subjects in the clinical trial, a cluster analysis is performed. Each discrete clinical
outcome is assigned to a centroid of one of the clusters.
[0247] Before the subject is treated with the drug, the subject is assigned a position in the
probability space based upon the subject's data from the twenty biomarkers. The probability of
the subject belonging to any of the discrete clinical outcome classes is determined using the

                                                   49
Mahalanobis distance, from which a probability is calculated using a Bayesian estimation. The
result of this calculation returns six probabilities corresponding to the six clinical outcomes of
the example. The position of the subject is determined by plotting the six probabilities in the
probability space.
[0248] The probability space corresponding to the six discrete clinical outcomes is graphically
displayed as a hexagon in two dimensions. The physician establishes rules tracking non
responsive subjects and possible advent of sequellae. The rules are plotted on the hexagonal
graph as lines as illustrated in Fig. 17. The medical condition of the subject is based the subject
data's position and/or trajectory in the probability space.
[0249] In Fig. 17, the trajectories of two different subjects are plotted. Subject 1 has a trajectory
that starts with a high probability of being a member of the DIC condition. However, as the
subsequent time points are taken, the subject trajectory moves away from the DIC condition and
towards the NR condition. When the physician notices the trajectory's speed and heading, at T        =
6, he raises the dose. At T = 9, the subject's position in the probability space has a high
probability of being part of the R condition. The physician assesses the medical condition of the
subject at any point in time along the subject's trajectory.
[0250] Subject 2 has a trajectory that begins in the middle of the probability space and heads
towards the NR condition at T = 1. However, at T = 2, the subject's position and trajectory are
in violation of the rule established by the physician and an alarm is sounded. The alarm alerts
the physician that the subject has a high probability of suffering from one of the dangerous
clinical outcomes of sepsis.
EXAMPLE 3
Diabetes and Insulin Sensitization
[0251] Subjects with non-insulin-dependent Type 2 diabetes are treated with a commercially
available insulin sensitizer and are monitored for efficacy and safety wherein the primary ADR
of concern is congestive heart failure (CHF). The subject is monitored over a course of time
during the clinical study. The method of action of the insulin sensitizer involves re-establishing
insulin sensitivity in the subject via antagonism of a nuclear receptor in the adipose tissue and

                                                  50
the liver. The insulin sensitizer and method of action act to increase glucose uptake in the
peripheral tissues and thus reduce the circulating glycemia.
[0252] A subject and a physician choose the best set of discrete clinical outcomes and rules for
the subject based on personal information. The discrete clinical outcomes are response (R), non
response (NR), and adverse drug reaction (ADR). The ADR is congestive heart failure.
[0253] After the three clinical outcomes are chosen, biomarkers most representative of the
medical condition of the subject are determined by discriminant analysis. The biomarkers
representative of efficacy of the insulin sensitivity treatment are glucose, insulin, adiponectin,
and resistin. The ADR of congestive heart failure identifies the representative biomarkers as
Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), amino-terminal-pro-BNP (N-BNP), atrial natriuretic factor
(ANF), IL-iI3, Troponin-C, Cardiac fatty acid binding protein, Myosin light chain-1,
Myoglobin, MMP-9. Using these biomarkers and the corresponding historical data on the type 2
diabetes, a cluster analysis is performed. Each discrete clinical outcome is assigned to a centroid
of one of the clusters.
[0254] Before the subject is treated with an insulin sensitizer, the subject is assigned a position
in the probability space based upon the subject's data from the relevant biomarkers. The
probability of the subject belonging any of the discrete clinical outcome classes is determined
using the Mahalanobis distance, from which a probability is calculated using a Bayesian
estimation. The result of this calculation returns three probabilities corresponding to the three
clinical outcomes of the example. The position of the subject is determined by plotting the three
probabilities in the probability space.
[0255] The probability space corresponding to three clinical outcomes is graphically displayed
as a triangle in two dimensions. The physician and subject establish rules most important to the
individual diabetic subject. The rules are to track the NR and ADR conditions. When the
probability of belonging to the ADR condition class increases beyond a boundary defined by the
rule, an alarm is triggered. The dose is increased according to a rule when the subject has a high
probability of being a NR.
[0256] In Fig. 18, the trajectories of two different subjects are plotted. Subject 1 has a trajectory
that starts in the middle of the probability space and then heads towards the ADR condition. In
this example, the subject may notice the trajectory's speed or acceleration and ask the physician if

                                                  51
a change in treatment is necessary. When Subject l's trajectory crosses the dotted line towards the
ADR condition, an alarm is triggered. The subject may react by going to the hospital.
[0257] Subject 2 has a trajectory that heads towards the NR condition. The dose of the insulin
sensitizer is adjusted corresponding to the rules established by the physician and the subject.
After the adjustment of the dose, the trajectory heading changes towards the R condition. The
example illustrates a method of the invention for monitoring a diabetic subject taking a
commercial insulin sensitizer and, with the help of a physician, monitoring the subject's own
condition at home.
EXAMPLE 4
Graphical Representation of the Clinical Outcome of a Subject
[0258] The example demonstrates a method for communication of the results from the
mathematical model to a user. The method is to plot a series of points and vectors in a space
bounded by a polygon. The vertices of the polygon represent the centroids of clusters of discrete
clinical outcomes. The position of the points represents the probability that the subject data
belongs to each centroid. The probability of the point belonging to the discrete clinical outcome
is inversely proportional to the distance of that point from the vertex. Since the vertices
represent all the significant clinical outcomes, the sum of the probabilities for a given point must
be 1.
[0259] A set of vectors is created where each value of a vector represents the probability of
membership in each of the clusters. The modulus (magnitude) of the values is the probability
and the argument (angle) of the vector points to a vertex, which are equally spaced. The vectors
are summed and the resulting point is located in the composite probability space.
Table 1
                     Discrete Clinical outcome
     Time            R                 NR             ADRI              ADR2              ADR3
     Point

                                                   52
     1               20               20                20                20                  20
     2               25               10                25                20                  20
     3               30               10                20                20                  20
     4               40               10                 10               20                  20
     5               50               10                 10               10                  20
     6               60               10                 10               10                  10
     7               80               10                5                 5                   0
     8                100             0                 0                 0                   0
[0260] For example, in Table 1, each row represents the position of one point. The columns,
labeled at the top, represent the probability that the point is a member of that cluster. So, in the
first row, the probability that the point is in cluster "R" is 20%, that it is in the cluster "NR" is
also 20%, and so on.
[0261] For the data in the table a graphical representation is created as illustrated in Fig. 19. We
see that the surrounding polygon has five vertices, each labeled as one of the columns in the
tabular data above. The first point of the set, at the tail of the chain of arrows, is at the center of
the drawing, indicating that the percentage probability that the point is in any of the clusters is
the same as the others. In this example, as the trajectory grows through time, the probability of
the subject data reaches a final point that has 100 per cent chance of being in cluster "R" and
zero per cent chance of being elsewhere. Correspondingly, the final point is at the "R" vertex.
[0262] Additional information can be included in the output of the probability space, including
the points representing the data of the discrete clinical outcomes that defined the clusters and
centroids. Fig. 20 illustrates a graphical representation of the cluster data points.

                                                   53
EXAMPLE 5
[0263] Drug development is an extremely risky proposition. Over the last decade, the failure
rates for clinical programs have been identified as high 90% with an amortized cost of nearly
one billion dollars per approved drug. These failures are due to any number of factors. These
include, but are not limited to: a faulty hypothesis as to a target's role in the evolution and
pathophysiology of the disease; the testing of that hypothesis in an inappropriate, and non
predictive, animal model; a faulty hypothesis regarding a compound's MOA; inappropriate
dosing schedules for individuals within target subpopulations, including inappropriate
pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics (PK/PD) characteristics; and developing untoward
physiological effects (for example, Adverse Drug Reactions - ADRs) in some segments of the
patient population and thus decreasing the therapeutic index for the compound in that
population.
[0264] This example demonstrates using a Type 1 biomarker for a compound within a particular
therapeutic area to: (a) validate the underlying hypothesis regarding the method of action for the
test compound; (b) identify, and then enrich, the appropriate responder subpopulation in a
confirmatory trial; and (c) develop a truly adaptive dosing protocol based on the individual PKs
and PDs of the responder population.
[0265] A real-time monitoring system is used identify the emergence of these characteristic
subpopulations earlier rather than later, to efficiently manage and control the clinical trial and
allows the clinical research team make precise decisions regarding trial management. On a
patient by patient basis, it dynamically identifies the compound's effects in one particular trial
subject, and then physically titrating that patient's dosing regimen to accommodate a truly
adaptive "Learn and Confinn" model of drug development.
[0266] Longitudinal sampling of proteins is performed with each patient, wherein the proteins
represent both the pathophysiology of the disease and the method of action of the compound. A
standard cluster analysis is applied at each sample time point in the longitudinal sampling space
that is consistent with the evolutionary dynamics of the pathophysiology of the disease, and the
purported method of action and PD of the test compound.
[0267] Identification of the dynamics of the emergence of separate subpopulations within the
trial sample population can be performed with two complementary clustering statistics: Cubic

                                                   54
Clustering Criterion (CCC) and the Pseudo-F which help the end-user establish the number of
clusters emerging within the geometry as demonstrated in Fig. 21.
[0268] The end-user uses both the statistics highlighted above and a visual inspection of the
cluster scatter plots to make the final determination as to how many distinct subpopulations exist
in the clinical study. Guiding this determination will be a fore-knowledge of the number of
treatment (cohort) arms, and any fore-knowledge as to the character of a possible ADR. The
methodology will suggest a number of clusters to the end user, and will then present each patient
as to his/her cluster assignment. The cluster assignment and the known assignment of a patient
to a treatment cohort or ADR outcome are then used standard assignment statistics to calculate
both the sensitivity and specificity of the assignment rule.
[0269] After determining that the clusters are reasonably specific, the dynamic trajectories of
the centroids of each cluster are characterized, their separation speed, and the distribution of
speed and directions of each patient in each cluster. If, for example, one cluster of patients is
fairly homogeneous in that they were all exposed to the compound at a given dose, and if the
distribution of distances, speeds, and directions, suggest that some may be slow responders, then
the end user may decide that those patients should receive a higher dose.
[0270] Based on the assumptions developed herein, in silico populations of virtual patients are
created for each hypothetical patient subclass. A time dependent Monte Carlo simulation is run
to identify the emergent clusters. After the simulation is run, a new set of mean vectors and
covariance structures is established and the simulation studies are repeated. The sensitivity and
specificity of the clustering assignment rule for each dynamic is measured and graphically plot
as a receiver operator curve, wherein the diagnostic variable will be the time at which the
clusters were suggested.
[0271] Results of the emergent dynamics by Monte Carlo simulation of the described methods
described in this example and results in the following emergent dynamics as shown in Fig. 21.
Fig. 21 demonstrates a dynamic subpopulation emergence based on cluster analysis of a Monte
Carlo simulation of a two-cohort clinical design. At Time      = 4 there is significant evidence for
the emergence of two clusters while by Time      = 8 the bifurcation is complete and the sensitivity
and specificity of the method are both 100%. Fig. 22 demonstrates plots of the cluster calling
statistics versus the hypothetical number of clusters at Time    = 4. Fig. 23 illustrates markers of

                                                   55
clinical effect with the segregation of the marker space as a function of dose at the end point of a
clinical study.
EXAMPLE 6
Identification of type 1 biomarkers indicative of periodic dosing regimes
[0272] Periodic dosing, as a therapeutic strategy, is a mainstay for the treatment of many
chronic diseases or conditions. Foremost among these are anti-cancer chemotherapy regimens
and treatments for autoimmune diseases. Whether therapeutically or in the context of an
adaptive clinical trial, the ability to both monitor and characterize efficacy and toxicity profiles
for a particular dosing regimen in any given patient provides the clinical professional important
information regarding the ultimate efficacy of his/her dosing strategy. The benefit of such a
feedback mechanism is that the feedback is timely and represents the mechanism of action and
clinical impact of the compound. For example, in cancer chemotherapy, the feedback is
provided by imaging technologies that help quantify tumor burden, which in many cases is not
timely.
[0273] This example characterizes the periodicity of the molecular efficacy measures to identify
trends and other measures of clinical relevance (for example, increasing refractory response) to
further aid in clinical decision making. As demonstrated herein a real-time feedback monitoring
system can account for the periodicity of the dosing regimen and characterizes any clinically
trends in the data.
[0274] The system can be a statistically valid and robust methodology which dynamically
characterizes the time-dependent profiles of molecular markers of drug activity in periodically
treated patient subpopulations which then uses that information as a real-time feedback monitor
for optimizing the therapeutic regimen.
[0275] The protein profiles of a treated population act in accordance with the underlying
hypothesis regarding a compound's mechanism of action, they should, as a conglomerate
pattern, reflect the periodicity of the treatment regimen, and taken as a whole, act as a Type 1
biomarker for compound activity at the site of action. Additionally, if there is evidence that the
periodic expression of these profile proteins changes with time, the trend of that change allows a

                                                 56
clinician to adjust the dosing regimen for example in frequency and/or dosage to individualize
the therapy.
[0276] Applying a time series-based statistical methodology to the longitudinal (within an
individual patient) protein profiles systematically accounts for the periodicity of a given dosing
regimen within an individual patient and using that information to identify and characterize the
emergence of any clinically relevant trends in the response. This knowledge can then be used to
both monitor a therapeutic regimen in an individual patient and to design and manage the
dynamics of an adaptive clinical trial.
[0277] By developing a valid longitudinal Type I biomarker for a compound's activity in the
context of a periodic dosing regimen will: (a) validate the underlying hypothesis regarding the
method of action for the test compound; (b) identify potentially relevant clinical conditions
comprising: growing refractoriness to the compound, target response to the regimen, and then
adjust, as appropriate, the frequency or dosages of the treatment itself; and (c) develop an
adaptive dosing protocol based on the individual PDs of the responder population.
[0278] Using real-time monitoring and feedback to identify the emergence of these
characteristic dynamics aids the clinician to make more precise decisions regarding patient
treatment and/or trial management.
[0279] A statistical Time Series analysis is used to characterize the periodicity or seasonality of
marker proteins in a patient subjected to periodic treatments similar to those employed in cancer
chemotherapy, weekly methotrextate injections. The system adjusts for the seasonality of the
data train as shown in Fig. 24 and de-trends the responses as necessary, a one or two lag
differencing scheme as applied to Autoregressive Integrated moving Average (ARIMA) Models,
to characterize the actual response profile of the patient to the therapy stream. Fig. 24
demonstrates patient data showing the seasonality of two type 1 biomarkers over time. If two or
more proteins markers are identified as markers, any temporal relationships between them (for
example without limitation, the levels of drug in the blood and/or clinical readout) can be
identified and characterized using Distributed Lags analysis in the same modeling context. Each
analysis depends on explicit characterization of the time-time correlations observed in the time
series, the Autocorrelation Function (ACF) and its related Partial Autocorrelation Function
(PACF)). Each of these functions can be represented as a vector of correlations which are

                                                   57
functionally dependent on the lag between measures. The functions can be used to identify
linear trends in the data, periodicity in the data, and nonlinear curvature dynamics in the data.
The functions themselves can be visualized for inspection using histograms called correlograms.
Once the data is de-trended and the periodicity accounted for, the individual spikes in the
marker profiles are analyzed to see if the compound is working as expected.
[0280] The first step involved in developing this methodology is identifying those proteins that
best represent both the pathophysiology of the disease and the purported method of action of the
compound. Once established, these proteins are sampled longitudinally in each patient.
[0281] Based upon the expected seasonality of the treatment regimen and the frequency of the
therapeutic dosages, an appropriate sampling frequency is established to ensure that the
suspected periodic expression of the marker proteins will be captured in the sample data sets.
[0282] The system automatically generates and inspects difference time series with 0, 1, or two
lag differences comprising ARIMA (0,0,0), ARIMA (0,1,0), and ARIMA (0,2,0) models and
compares them to the best fit through Root Mean Square Error, thus appropriately de-trending
the data to make the series stationary. Once a stationary series has been established, the de
trending parameters comprising the slope of a linear trend line is estimated from the data, and an
ACF and PACF for the stationary series is generated.
[0283] Any periodic expression patterns are identified and characterized as the period of the
peaks and their subsequent amplitudes. An example of this is shown in Fig. 25 demonstrating a
time series of a biomarker value versus the time of chemotherapy delivery.
[0284] When multiple time series are involved comprising two or more protein markers and/or
levels of compounds in the blood, a distributed lags analysis is performed to identify and
characterize the correlations between the series and their lags. The methodology identifies the
dynamics of the emergence of protein marker wave trains and to relate these back to clinically
relevant events and/or the dosing schedule of the regimen.
[0285] A Monte Carlo simulation of the methods described above using four time series were
generated using a stationary time series, a time series with linearly increasing slope, a time
series with exponentially decreasing affect to mimic patient-drug attenuation, and a stationary
time series with linearly decreasing peaks, to model patient-drug adaptation or up-regulation of
metabolic pathways.

                                                 58
EXAMPLE 7
Time to Fever Spike and sepsis from time series measurements of Levels of
Circulating Pyrogens and other biomarkers.
[0286] A patient with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) undergoing in-patient chemotherapy
was monitored using the methods and systems described herein with sampling of blood every
four to eight hours. The patient's temperature was also monitored frequently. IL-6 elevation (>
1000-fold between consecutive measurements) was found at time designated zero in Table 2 and
a significant decline >30 % between consecutive measurements 14 hours later. Fever was first
noted eight hours later. The methods herein would have anticipated the subsequent recognition
of sepsis by 8 hours.
Table 2
     Time, hours                  Event
     0.0                          First elevation of IL-6
     8.4                          First fever
     14.3                         Significant decline in protein-C
     22.3                         Septic shock
     27.2                         Patient admitted to ICU
[0287] The system identifies the relationship between the time to a fever spike during
aggressive chemotherapy of leukemia resulting in fever and dramatically changed levels of
circulating pyrogens (Protein-C, IL-6, Il-lbeta, TNF-alpha, IL-10). This is performed by
employing standard statistical modeling methodologies. The system can be generalized to other
situations where sepsis occurs. It can also be employed for other situations where significant
disease processes and outcome of therapy can be beneficially projected.

                                                  59
[0288] Science and engineering often involve using easy-to-measure variables, called factors or
independent variable factors to explain or predict the behavior of other variables, called
responses. When the factors are few in number, not significantly redundant (non-collinear), and
have a well-defined, functional relationship to the responses, one can use multiple linear
regression to characterize that relationship. However, if any of these three pre-conditions
should fail, multiple linear regression may prove to be inefficient or statistically inappropriate.
In that case, one may employ an alternative model building strategy termed Partial Least
Squares Regression. This methodology is particularly useful when there are many factors that
might be highly co-linear, and when the relationship between independent variable factors and
dependent variable response is ill-defined. The aim of this type of analysis is to construct a
good predictive model.
[0289] Anticipating the time to a Fever Spike based on statistical models using levels of several
circulating pyrogens. Fig. 26 demonstrates the relationship between parameters computed from
circulating pyrogen levels measured over time and/or and the time-to-spike (also labeled Lead
Time). The rate of change and shape of the parameters over time is determined by the
incidence, time of infection, extent of infection, numbers of organisms, virulence of the
organisms, and the condition and genetic make-up of the patient. The activation threshold is the
point at which the body physiology begins to generate a fever spike. The detection threshold is
a parameter level at which some therapeutic intervention is indicated. The system determines
the relationship between the pyrogen levels and the dependent variable in the model, Lead Time,
enabling prediction of fever spike early enough to intervene with beneficial outcome.
[0290] This method and data provides enables anticipation of the time patients are most likely to
experience a fever spike. The physician can then preempt and/or ameliorate the onset of the
fever event, for example by providing prophylactic antibiotic therapy.
[0291] The treatment of patients with Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) is used as an
exemplary case. Such patients are often treated with a course of induction chemotherapy (in
patient chemotherapy typically using more than one drug and intended to eliminate all cancer
cells). An undesired side-effect of the induction chemotherapy is usually febrile neutropenia.
This occurs because infectious microorganisms can invade the patient due to the inactivation of
active immunity by the chemotherapy. The definition of febrile neutropenia is the fever spike, a
clinician defined state in which the patient's temperature measures greater than 39 degrees

                                                 60
Celsius or in a six hour period two consecutive patient temperatures measured greater than 38.5
degrees Celsius.
[0292] Fever, as a defense mechanism, results from the effects exerted on the hypothalamus by
circulating cytokines, called pyrogens. These cytokines emerge from the immune system during
an inflammatory response. The best known of these are IL-6, IL-I beta, and TNF-alpha. The
purpose of this example is to identify a pattern of circulating pyrogens leading up to a fever
spike, and, from them, build a model that best anticipates the time-to-spike.
[0293] The methods developed in the studies may be generalized to generate a monitoring
means in other high-risk disease states and therapeutic procedures.
[0294] The system builds a statistical model characterizing the relationship between the time-to
spike and the circulating levels for two particular pyrogens, IL-6 and IL-I beta. The system,
while independent of measurement means, requires frequent sampling in the period prior to the
fever spike (anywhere from 3 to 6 measures per day).
[0295] The first step involved in developing the methodology requires one characterization of
fever in well defined categories and to identify, as closely as possible, the time of the first fever
event. The definition chosen was that either the patient's temperature measures greater than 39
degrees Celsius or in a six hour period or two consecutive temperatures are recorded greater
than 38.5 degrees Celsius.
[0296] Individual patient data for the circulating levels of IL-6, IL-I beta, and TNF-alpha and
other biomarkers were recorded in a database, based on the sampling interval. The samples in
the study (3 measures per day at 8-hour increments) were subjected to post hoc analysis, and
used to populate the model.
[0297] These markers were selected based upon a number of current studies which show that
patients with Sepsis Syndrome have elevated levels of circulating IL-I beta, IL-6, and TNF
alpha when compared with critically ill patients without sepsis and normal controls (Casey, L.
Annals of Internal Medicine (1993) 119;8:771-778).
[0298] IL-6 predominately regulates the synthesis of CRP made by the hepatocytes (liver) in the
acute phase response. Transcription of CRP is also regulated somewhat by TNF and IL-i. CRP

                                                  61
is a pentraxin protein which binds to phosphocholine on bacterial cell walls, endogenous cell
membranes, and apoptotic bodies. Inflammation caused by infection/ sepsis, inflammatory and
autoimmune disorders, traumatic injury, and some malignancies, CRP is seen in increased
amounts making it a useful biomarker in monitoring sepsis and infection. CRP production is not
affected by neutropenia. There is an abundance of literature which focuses on CRP levels
during neutropenic fever and in diagnosing the severity of febrile incidences.
[0299] Protein C is anti-coagulant protein that is synthesized in the liver. It plays an important
role in maintaining coagulation homeostasis. Protein C is activated by thrombin into an active
protein which along with protein S and phospholipid as cofactors, it cleaves coagulation factors
VIII and V thus inhibiting coagulation. Recently, Protein C's anti-inflammatory responses have
been discovered.
[0300] Patients with sepsis and septic shock have Protein C depletion which may have a role in
the pathophysiology of sepsis. Improvement was seen in a specific subgroup of patients by
counteracting Protein C depletion by the addition of activated Protein C. Protein C can be used
as a biomarker in the diagnosis of sepsis in patients and as a therapeutic agent. One study found
that concentrations of Protein C are proportionate with severity of neutropenic sepsis at fever
onset.
[0301] Ten adult leukemia patients receiving chemotherapy were enrolled. Blood samples were
taken every 8 hours prior to the onset of the fever spike and then every 6 hours until the end of
the observation period. Biomarker analysis was performed on these samples. Patient sampling
of 8 hours prior to fever spike and 6 hours after fever spike observed.
[0302] A Partial Least Squares model was constructed based on the pre-spike (36 hour window)
measures for IL-6, IL1-beta, and TNF-alpha and their sample-to-sample fold changes. Given the
data set derived from this study, a minimal sampling period of 8 hours and a minimal window of
36 hours pre-spike is sufficient to derive an anticipative model of the time to spike.
[0303] Quantitative Biomarker concentration data was derived using well known ELISA
immunoassay known to measure IL-6, IL1-beta, and TNF-alpha. Concentrations measured in
pg/mL, and sample-to-sample fold changes in concentration were recorded and analyzed as
follows.

                                                   62
[0304] The concentration data were first visually inspected for Gaussian normality. Because
they were log normally distributed the data was transformed by calculating the log of the raw
data measures. Based on these measures, an initial Partial Least Squares regression model was
built that included all three pyrogens and their fold changes from sample to sample. This model
characterized the amount of variation accounted for in the covariance structures of the
dependent vectors (times-to-spike) and the independent vectors (pyrogen levels). In this data set
there were more independent variables than degrees of freedom. To address the problem,
standard statistical model building tools like top-down elimination and bottom-up addition were
employed.
[0305] The full model (IL-6, TNF-alpha, and IL-Ibeta, and their sample to sample changes)
accounted for the percentage of the variation in the whole model covariance structure and the
percentage of the variance in the dependent variable (time-to-spike). Using feature selection
processes comprising and not limited to bottom up model building and top down model
building, a series of seven sub-models were developed.
[0306] The chosen model included log(IL-6), log(IL-1 beta), log(sample-to-sample fold change
IL-6), log(TNF-alpha), and accounted for 93% of the total model covariance and 27.5% of the
variance in the dependent variable (time-to-spike).
[0307] The model is given by a standard multiple linear regression equation with the following
parameter set: intercept  =  36.5; log(IL-6) = -8.0; log(IL-6 fold change) = 2.4; log(IL-1 beta) =
0.3; and log(TNF-alpha)     = 4.4. Each measure is a point-in-time measure at the observed time-to
spike. For example, 24 hours prior to the fever spike, the log of the concentrations of IL-6, IL-I
beta, and their sample-to-sample fold changes from the 30 hour time point are added to the
model using fitted parameters, meaning the coefficients of the linear model.
[0308] The final model was selected from the seven total sub-models because it accounted for
the highest level of the percentage of variance in the dependent vector. The final model included
log(IL-6), log(IL-1 beta), and the logs of their sample-to-sample fold changes as anticipators of
time-to-spike. The size of the anticipative window of 36 hours was selected by clinical
relevance but is not limited to that anticipative window. The selected model equation is as
follows:

                                                   63
        Time-to-spike=36.6-8*log(IL6)+2.4*Log(IL-6 fold change)-0.3*Log(IL-1
beta+4.4*Log(TNF alpha)
[0309] The results of the 10 patients were evaluated in this example for their biomarker patterns
in the 36 hours prior to fever spikes. The data for each of the pyrogens and their sample-to
sample fold changes are in Figs. 27-32. Fig. 27 is the IL-I beta concentration versus time point
number. Fig. 28 is the sample-to-sample fold change for ILl-beta versus time point number. Fig.
29 is the IL-6 concentration versus time point number, wherein patient 4 became septic. Fig. 30
is the sample-to-sample fold change for IL-6 versus time point number, wherein patient 4
became septic. Fig. 31 is the TNF-alpha concentration versus time point number. Fig. 32 is the
sample-to-sample fold change for TNF-alpha versus time point number.
[0310] The model anticipated the time-to-spike in all patients and explained the percentage of
the variance observed in the dependent variable. Patient 6 had ATRA syndrome and thus is
outside the patient population used to construct the model.
[0311] The residual plot for patient 5 is given in Fig. 33. Patient 5 has a fever spike and no
decreasing markers. Temperature in degrees C (right scale) biomarker concentrations given in
pg/mL, wherein IL-6 is a 10-fold increase, not necessarily indicating sepsis. An analysis of the
residuals suggest that the model anticipations for the period between 12 and 24 hours prior to
the fever spike are non-systematic, meaning randomly distributed about the zero-axis and the
size of the residual is no more than the percentage of the anticipated time-to-spike, which is
anticipated by the model using the equation 1.
[0312] For patient 4, the model anticipates a time-to-spike of 3.3 hours when the actual time-to
spike was 7 hours, and, at the other extreme, anticipates a time-to-spike of 31.9 hours when the
actual time-to-spike was actually 34 hours as demonstrated in Fig. 34. Patient 4 data points
showing decreasing Protein-C with increasing IL-6 just prior to fever spike. Normalized
parameter is the ratio of the (parameter value at time t minus the lowest value in the range) to
the difference between the maximum and minimum value of the parameter. A residual analysis
for Patient 4 yields an excellent fit to the data measured in patient 4, meaning the residuals are
randomly distributed about the zero axis, and no residual is greater than 20% of the anticipated
time-to-spike, as derived from equation 1.

                                                 64
[0313] In conclusion of this example, induction cancer chemotherapy is only one of the
underlying etiologies of sepsis. Others include, but are not limited to, severe burn and thermal
injury or traumatic injury. In burn and traumatic injury, the patient expresses an alteration in the
immune system resulting in a predominance of the T Helper-2 Lymphocyte phenotype, where
the phenotype of the helper cell population switches from Th1 to Th2. This is termed the Thl
to-Th2 switch and makes the patient more susceptible to the onset of infection. Fig. 35 is a
schematic of the Thl-to-Th2 switch and the cytokines representing each phenotype. Once the
patient becomes infected, if the underlying pathogen is identified, the rate and spread of
infection can result in a systemic inflammatory response which is called sepsis. If the pathogen
is unidentified, the inflammatory response is termed Systemic Inflammatory Response
Syndrome (SIRS). Thus, the underlying etiology of progression to sepsis can be captured as a
process divided into three physiologically distinct intervals: Susceptibility to Infection, which is
represented by the Thl-Th2 switch, progression through infection, and the onset and progression
of sepsis/SIRS. The markers relevant to the monitoring of each stage are shown in Table 3.
Table 3
Sepsis Onset and Sequellae                  i.  Sepsis Onset
                                                 a.      Protein C**
                                                 b.      IL-1beta**
                                                 c.      IL-6**
                                                 d.      Procalcitonin
                                                 e.      IL-10
                                            ii. DIC
                                                 a.      Von Willebrand Factor
                                                 b.      Procalcitonin
                                                 c.      Neopterin
                                                 d.      TNF-a

     65
     e.    Protein C
     f.    PAF1
     g.    (Pro)Thrombin
iii. ARF (Acute Renal Failure)
     a.    Creatinine
     b.    Cystin C
iv. ARDS
     a.    Von Willebrand Factor
     b.    IL-6
     c.    11-8
     d.    IL-1
     e.    I-1ra (IL-1 receptor agonist)
     f.    TNF
v. ALF (Acute Liver Failure)
     a.    ALT
     b.    AST
     c.    GGT
     d.    LDH
     e.    Alkaline phosphatase
     f.    Protein C
     g.    Cytokeratin-18 fragments

                                                   66
[0314] Fig. 36 and Fig. 37 demonstrate that the system uses an equation that is anticipative of
sepsis using the Squared Maholanobis distance equation and Bayesian Probability. The Squared
Mahalanobis Distance is:
         Dj2(x) =  (ptj - x)T-1(tj) where j=1,2, 3
         and the Bayesian probability is:
                 Pr(jlx)  = exp(-0.5Dj2 (x))/'exp(0.5Dk2 (x))
                 wherein p is the mean vector representing the centroid of the patient population
         and j is the three different outcomes (sepsis, fever, infection).
[0315] Fig. 38 illustrates a graph in time of a plurality of marker proteins for a patient in a sepsis
trial. The time of the onset to sepsis for this patient is marked and all patterns leading up to that
point are relevant to the determination that this patient became septic.
[0316] Fig. 39 illustrates a bivariate time course of two particular markers (protein C and C
reactive protein) in the same patient. The change in direction in the center of the graph
represents a rapid onset of disease. In this example, a patient rapidly deteriorated and was
illustrated as septic in a very particular region of the bivariate space. In this example, the
sampling intervals are fairly regular; therefore the length of each line segment represents the rate
of change of the biomarkers in this particular space.

                                                   67
CLAIMS
1.     A computer readable medium comprising computer readable instructions for predicting the
occurrence of sepsis, which when executed cause a processor to:
       a.    provide a probability space defined by a set of discrete clinical outcomes, said
             discrete clinical outcomes comprising the development of sepsis, each of which
             discrete clinical outcome is characterized by a statistical distribution of at least one
             biological marker selected from comprises protein C concentration and interleukin 6
             (IL 6) concentration;
       b.    obtain subject data corresponding to the at least one biological marker; and
       c.    calculate the position of said subject data in said probability space to assess the
             probability of a clinical outcome of said subject.
2.     The computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions operate in a software
runtime environment.
3.     The computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions when executed further
causes a processor to provide a user defined alert condition based on an assessment of trajectory
parameters of the subject data in the probability space, wherein said trajectory parameters are at
least one of speed, acceleration, direction, and position.
4.     A method of monitoring sepsis development of a subject, the method comprising the steps
of:
       using a computer processor to construct a probability space defined by a set of discrete
clinical outcomes, said set of discrete clinical outcomes including sepsis, said probability space
characterized by a statistical distribution of a set of biomarkers comprising protein C or
interleukin 6 (IL 6);
       measuring at least two parameters selected from the group of (1) body temperature of said
subject, (2) protein C concentration of said subject, (3) interleukin 6 (IL 6) concentration of said
subject, multiple times to yield a trend of temperature, protein C trend, and/or IL 6; and
       wherein an increase beyond normal body temperature, a decrease in protein C
concentration and/or an increase in IL-6 concentration is indicative of the development of sepsis
in said subject, and
       communicating an alert if the development of sepsis is indicated.

                                                 68
5.     The method of claim 4, wherein a decrease in protein C followed by an increase of IL-6 is
indicative of the development of sepsis in said subject.
6.     The method of claim 4, wherein a decrease in protein C followed by an increase of IL-6
and an increase beyond normal body temperature is indicative of the development of sepsis in
said subject.
7.     The method of claim 4, wherein at least about 10-fold increase in IL-6 concentration in
said subject is indicative of the development of sepsis in said subject.
8.     The method of claim 4, wherein at least about 100-fold increase in IL-6 concentration in
said subject is indicative of the development of sepsis in said subject.
9.     The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of increasing frequency of measuring
IL-6 concentration upon an increase beyond normal body temperature and/or a decrease in
protein C concentration.
10.    The method of claim 4, wherein the frequency is increased to once a day, once every 12, 8,
6, or 4 hours.
11.    A method for characterizing a medical condition of a subject, said medical condition
comprising sepsis, said method comprising the steps of:
       a.   obtaining from a biological sample a first set of subject data comprising at least one
            biological marker and at least one physiological parameter from the subject, wherein
            said biological marker comprises protein C concentration or interleukin 6 (IL 6)
            concentration;
       b.   using a computer processor to construct a probability space defined by a set of
            discrete clinical outcomes, said set of discrete clinical outcomes including sepsis,
            said probability space characterized by a statistical distribution of a set of biomarkers
            comprising protein C or interleukin 6 (IL 6);
       c.   determining the probability of a medical condition of the subject using the first set of
            subject data obtained, said medical condition comprising sepsis;
       d.   selecting a second set of subject data from the probability of the medical condition;
            and

                                                   69
       e.    obtaining the second set of subject data from the subject, thereby characterizing the
             medical condition of the subject, and
       f.    communicating an alert if the medical condition indicates the development of sepsis.
12.   A method for characterizing periodicity of a clinical condition of a subject, said clinical
condition comprising sepsis, the method comprising the steps of:
       a.    identifying a set of biomarkers for a clinically relevant condition, wherein said
             biomarkers comprise protein C concentration or interleukin 6 (IL 6) concentration;
      b.     using a computer processor to construct a probability space defined by a set of
             discrete clinical outcomes, said set of discrete clinical outcomes including sepsis,
             said probability space characterized by a statistical distribution of a set of biomarkers
             comprising protein C or interleukin 6 (IL 6);
       c.    obtaining longitudinal subject data corresponding to at least one biomarker in said set
             to obtain a trend of the subject data;
       d.    analyzing said trend to identify periodic changes in the at least one biomarker;
       e.     measuring values of peak measurements of the periodic changes of the trend; and
       f.    characterizing the values of the peaks thereby characterizing the periodicity of the
             clinically relevant condition, and
       g.    communicating an alert if the medical condition indicates the development or
             recurrence of sepsis.
13.    The method of claim 12, wherein the analyzing step comprises developing an ARIMA
model to determine a differencing lag in the underlying model.
14.    The method of claim 13, wherein the differencing lag is used to de-trend the trend and
establish a stationary trend.
15.    The method of claim 12, wherein the analyzing step comprises calculating an
autocorrelation function.
16.    The method of claim 12, wherein the measuring step comprises identifying the statistically
significant peaks in the autocorrelation function.
17.    The method of claim 12, wherein the analyzing step comprises calculating spectral density.

                                                70
18.   The method of claim 12, wherein the calculating spectral density is performed using a Fast
Fourier Transform.
19.   The method of claim 12, wherein the measuring step comprises identifying the power
spectrum of the maximum spectral density frequency.
20.   A method for monitoring subject response to sepsis therapy, the method comprising the
steps of:
      a.   obtaining longitudinal subject data corresponding to at least one biomarker in a set of
           biomarkers for a clinically relevant condition to obtain a trend of the subject data,
           wherein the subject data is obtained from a sample obtained from the subject
           receiving sepsis therapy, wherein said biological marker comprises protein C
           concentration or interleukin 6 (IL 6) concentration;
      b.   using a computer processor to construct a probability space defined by a set of
           discrete clinical outcomes, said set of discrete clinical outcomes including sepsis,
           said probability space characterized by a statistical distribution of a set of biomarkers
           comprising protein C or interleukin 6 (IL 6);
      c.   monitoring periodicity of the trend; and
      d.   corresponding the periodicity to a response to the therapy received by the subject,
           and
      e.   communicating an alert if the medical condition indicates the development or
           recurrence of sepsis.
21.   The method of claim 20, wherein the therapy is a periodic dosing regimen.
22.   The method of claim 20, wherein the response to the therapy is characterized by a
time-dependent behavior of peak levels of the trend.
23.   The method of claim 22, wherein the time-dependent behavior is substantially constant.
24.   The method of claim 22, wherein the time-dependent behavior is changing linearly.
25.   The method of claim 22, wherein the time-dependent behavior is changing exponentially.

                                                    71
26.   A method for characterizing the emergence of clinically relevant subpopulations of sepsis
patients exposed to a therapeutic agent, the method comprising the steps of:
       a.    identifying a set of biomarkers in a blood sample that act as surrogate markers for the
             therapeutic agent, wherein said biomarkers comprise protein C concentration or
             interleukin 6 (IL 6) concentration;
      b.     measuring the set of biomarkers longitudinally from a group of patients exposed to
             the therapeutic agent;
       c.    using a computer processor to construct a probability space defined by a set of
             discrete clinical outcomes, said set of discrete clinical outcomes including sepsis,
             said probability space characterized by a statistical distribution of a set of biomarkers
             comprising protein C or interleukin 6 (IL 6);
       d.    identifying distinct clusters in said probability space of the measured values of the set
             of biomarkers from the group of patients;
       e.    determining the rate of separation of the distinct clusters and measuring the distance
             between the distinct clusters in a statistical manner;
       f.    obtaining patient information from the group of patients to classify the patients in
             clinically relevant subpopulations; and
       g.    comparing the distinct clusters to the clinically relevant subpopulations to
             characterize sensitivity and specificity of the distinct clusters to predict the clinically
             relevant subpopulations, and
      h.     communicating an alert if the medical condition indicates the development or
             recurrence of sepsis in a subpopulation of sepsis patients exposed to a therapeutic
             agent.
27.    The method of claim 26 further comprising identifying a second set of biomarkers
configured to improve the characterization of the emergence of distinct clusters to predict the
clinically relevant subpopulations.
28.    The method of claim 26, wherein the group of patients exposed to the therapeutic agent are
participants in a clinical trial.
29.    The method of claim 28, wherein the clinical trial is a dose ranging trial.
30.    The method of claim 28, wherein the clinical trial is a part of an adaptive clinical trial.

                                                72
31.   The method of claim 30, wherein the adaptive clinical trial is designed to characterize an
optimal dosing regimen.
32.   The method of claim 30, wherein the adaptive clinical trial is designed to characterize an
optimal responder population.
33.   The method of claim 28, wherein the measuring the distance step comprises measuring the
Mahalanobis distance between the distinct cluster centroids.
34.   The method of claim 28, wherein the measuring the distance step comprises measuring the
nearest-neighbors distance between the distinct clusters.
35.   The method of claim 28, wherein the measuring the distance step comprises measuring a
Euclidean distance measure between the distinct clusters.
36.   The method of claim 28, wherein the measuring the distance step measuring a Manhattan
distance measure between the distinct cluster.
                                         Theranos, Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           21/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           22/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           23/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           24/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           25/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           26/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           27/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           28/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           29/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           30/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           31/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           32/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           33/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           34/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           35/39

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               36/39
<U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           37/39

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           38/39

                                              39/39
<removed-date>                                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                          <U+2737>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                          <U+2736>                           <U+273E>
                                                                                          <U+2735>
                              <U+2725>
                              <U+2716>
                          <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2734>
                              <U+2714>
                          <U+271E>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                          <U+2706>                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                              <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+2733>
                          <U+271E>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                                          <U+2732>
                          <U+2605>
                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
              <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
              <U+271D>                                           <U+2717>
                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
              <U+2706>                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                  <U+2724>                                                                       <U+2744>
              <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+2739>                           <U+2743>
                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                              <U+2706>
                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                          <U+2717>
                                                              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2716>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+271A>                                           <U+273A>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                              <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                              <U+271F>
                                                      <U+260E>
                                                              <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                  <U+2702>                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+261E>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                  <U+261E>       <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2711>
                  <U+2701>                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
                      <U+261B>                           <U+270F>                       <U+261B>
                                  <U+261B>       <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+2713>
                      <U+2721>                                               <U+2712>                       <U+261E>
                                  <U+270C>               <U+270E>
                                      <U+270D>

