                                         Abstract
        A system and method for optimizing a multi-party transaction involving digital
assets wherein each party is associated with a signing server and one or more
cryptographic accounts. This includes creation of a plurality of obligation bundles by
matching pairs of obligations from a plurality of digital asset obligations and asset
obligations. This also includes authorizing the digital asset obligations with respective
signing servers and locking the digital assets to enforce commitment to the
authorization. The system and method also includes creating a new net obligation
bundle from the obligation bundles to optimize a reduction of overall obligations where
intermediate obligations are obviated. Executing the multi-party transaction, including
the new net obligation bundle, is recorded on a mutual append-only transaction log.

         ASSET AND OBLIGATION MANAGEMENT USING FLEXIBLE SETTLEMENT
                                          TIMES
CROSS-REFERENCE
[0001]This application claims priority under 35 USC § 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 62/327,360 entitled ASSET AND OBLIGATION MANAGEMENT USING
FLEXIBLE SETTLEMENT TIMES, filed on April 25, 2016 in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office (USPTO), the contents of which are herein incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     The present disclosure relates to asset and obligation management using
flexible settlement times for digital assets and obligations as well as for digitally
managed traditional assets and obligations.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Legacy financial infrastructure, traditionally based on centralized hub-and-spoke
database architectures, are expensive, inefficient and vulnerable to operational failure
and cyberattack. Multiple entities keep records of the similar but incomplete information
and attempt to ensure its consistency through a cumbersome reconciliation process.
Settlement latency and failures arise because transaction information is recorded
separately and errors are not identified and rectified until late in the post-trade process.
Regulatory focus on enhanced transparency, reduced counterparty risk and expedited
settlement times are also placing challenging demands on existing infrastructure. These
problems occur across many areas of post-trade processing and record-keeping, which
results in high costs, capital requirements and added counterparty, operational, and
cyber-security risks.
[0004]     Bilateral, OTC, electronic, and centrally cleared transaction volumes are
placing existing infrastructure under tremendous strain. Each one of these matched
                                              1

transactions represents the creation of obligations for the buyer, seller, and all
intermediaries to fulfill their responsibilities in order to settle the transaction. These
intermediary roles exist in order to facilitate large pools of liquidity for price discovery
and guarantee the performance of the actors in price discovery.
[0005]      In spite of increasingly improved venues and platforms created to increase
the efficiency of creating a matched transaction, corresponding match recordation and
obligation creation still differs widely across the parties to the transaction. To begin with,
the buyer and seller in a transaction may each only see and record their own side of the
transaction and bilateral obligations, creating a partial record of the event. If the
transaction was centrally cleared, a central counterparty clearinghouse (CCP) would
see and record both sides of the transaction and two pairs of bilateral obligations. In this
simplistic example, there would be three independent, and for two out of the three
parties, partially complete, records of the transaction. Each party to the transaction may
consume, reformat, and persist this information however it likes and in its own
recordation systems. This means that each participant may accidentally drop a
message, reformat improperly, or edit its records incorrectly without the other parties
being privy to such alterations. It is common practice for integrated post-trade systems
to strip enriched data, only to be re-enriched later in the process, due to use of multiple
different data formats.
[0006]      This is the driving force behind reconciliation of records across market
participants. Each participant receives partial information, can store and edit that
information as it likes, and will report information to its counterparties typically in
aggregate form. As a result, all parties to each transaction independently maintain all
the information that they have and compare with their respective counterparties.
Reconciliation is difficult because no single party can be certain the information it holds
is correct nor that its counterparties hold correct information. Thus, reconciliation is not
simply the process of comparing what is wrong to what is right. Instead it is the process
of looking at multiple records, each of which could be wrong, and undergoing a costly
and cumbersome process to agree on the truth. As a result of this, financial institutions
are spending a significant amount of their operational outlays on the generation,
communication and reconciliation of vast quantities of unique data.
                                               2

[0007]      This information that is being maintained and reconciled across all market
participants represents the obligations for each party to deliver and settle at some point
in the future. Each market and asset has its own definition for what is the proper time
period for which settlement of obligations is required and each market has its own rules
for how one is required to satisfy its obligations.
[0007a]     Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
"comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion
of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
[0007b]     Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
which has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission
that any or all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general
knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority
date of each claim of this application.
SUMMARY
[0008]      An exemplary embodiment method is provided for managing a transaction
having at least one enduring obligation and at least one repo obligation with respect to a
plurality of assets, the method comprising authorizing the at least one enduring
obligation and the at least one repo obligation through a mutual append-only
transactional log.
[0009]      The method may optionally be used where the at least one enduring
obligation and the at least one repo obligation form an obligation bundle. The method
may optionally include communicating statuses of the obligations among a plurality of
participants. The method may optionally be used where the plurality of participants
includes a central counterparty clearinghouse associated with a first signing server.
[0010]      The method may optionally be used where the plurality of assets comprises
two assets selected from the group consisting of cash, securities and equities. The
method may optionally be used where the plurality of assets includes at least one of a
digital asset or a tokenized non-digital asset. The method may optionally be used
where the mutual append-only transactional log is a blockchain ledger.
                                               3

[0011]       The method may optionally include matching at least one enduring obligation
of a first party with at least one repo obligation of a second party by receiving a
Business Intent Message (BIM) based on the respective obligations of the parties;
selecting a transaction processing algorithm based on the BIM; selecting relationship
nodes for transaction processing based on the BIM; and providing a Business Intent
Transaction (BIT) based on the selected algorithm and nodes.
[0012]       An exemplary embodiment asset management system includes at least one
signing server configured to manage a transaction having at least one enduring
obligation and at least one repo obligation with respect to a plurality of assets, wherein
the at least one signing server is configured to authenticate said obligations through an
append-only log.
[0013]       The system may optionally be used where the at least one enduring
obligation and the at least one repo obligation form an obligation bundle. The system
may optionally be used where the at least one signing server is disposed for
communicating statuses of the obligations among a plurality of participants. The system
may optionally be used where transfers of the plurality of assets are controlled by a
plurality of participants, including a central counterparty clearinghouse associated with a
first signing server.
[0014]       The system may optionally be used where the plurality of assets comprises
two assets selected from the group consisting of cash, securities and equities. The
system may optionally be used where the plurality of assets includes at least one of a
digital asset or a tokenized non-digital asset. The system may optionally be used where
the mutual append-only transactional log is a blockchain ledger.
[0015]       The system may optionally include business means for matching the at least
one enduring obligation of a first party with the at least one repo obligation of a second
party by receiving a Business Intent Message (BIM) based on the respective obligations
of the parties; core means for selecting a transaction processing algorithm based on the
BIM; first strategy means for selecting relationship nodes for transaction processing
based on the BIM; and second strategy means for providing a Business Intent
Transaction (BIT) based on the selected algorithm and nodes.
                                                4

[0016]      An exemplary embodiment program storage device is provided tangibly
embodying a program of instructions executable by a computer to perform steps for
managing a transaction having at least one enduring obligation and at least one repo
obligation with respect to a plurality of assets, the steps comprising authorizing the at
least one enduring obligation and the at least one repo obligation through a mutual
append-only transactional log.
[0017]      The steps may optionally be used where the at least one enduring obligation
and the at least one repo obligation form an obligation bundle.           The steps may
optionally include communicating statuses of the obligations among a plurality of
participants.    The steps may optionally be used where the plurality of participants
includes a central counterparty clearinghouse associated with a first signing server.
[0018]      The steps may optionally be used where the plurality of assets comprises
two assets selected from the group consisting of cash, securities and equities. The
steps may optionally be used where the plurality of assets includes at least one of a
digital asset or a tokenized non-digital asset. The steps may optionally be used where
the mutual append-only transactional log is a blockchain ledger.
[0019]      The steps may optionally include matching at least one enduring obligation of
a first party with at least one repo obligation of a second party by receiving a Business
Intent Message (BIM) based on the respective obligations of the parties; selecting a
transaction processing algorithm based on the BIM; selecting relationship nodes for
transaction processing based on the BIM; and providing a Business Intent Transaction
(BIT) based on the selected algorithm and nodes.
[0019a]     There is also provided a method for optimizing a multi-party transaction
involving digital assets wherein each party is associated with a signing server and one
or more cryptographic accounts comprising: creating a plurality of obligation bundles by
matching pairs of obligations from a plurality of digital asset obligations and asset
obligations wherein a digital asset obligation represents a transfer of a digital asset and
an asset obligation represents a transfer of an asset, wherein one pair of obligations
include: at least a first digital asset obligation representing a transfer of a first digital
asset from a first designated cryptographic account of a first signing server to a second
designated cryptographic account of a second signing server; and at least a first asset
                                              5

obligation representing a transfer of a first asset from a first account of the second
signing server to a second account of the first signing server; and wherein another pair
of obligations include: at least a second digital asset obligation representing a transfer
of a second digital asset from a second designated cryptographic account of the second
signing server to a first designated cryptographic account of a third signing server; and
at least a second asset obligation representing a transfer of a second asset from a
second account of the third signing server to a first account of the second signing
server; authorizing the first digital asset obligation by the first signing server; authorizing
the second digital asset obligations by the second signing server; locking the first digital
asset and the second digital asset to enforce commitment to the authorized first digital
asset obligation and the authorized second digital asset obligation; creating a new net
obligation bundle from the obligation bundles to optimize for a reduction of overall
obligations where       intermediate   obligations are obviated        whereby digital   asset
obligations are offset against asset obligations including representing a transfer of a
digital asset from the first signing server to the third signing server and a representing a
transfer of an asset from the third signing server to the first signing server; executing the
multi-party transaction including the new net obligation bundle by recording the
multiparty transaction of the digital assets on a mutual append-only transactional log.
[0019b]      The   method     may optionally include communicating           statuses of the
obligations among a plurality of parties.
[0019c]      The digital asset may optionally include a tokenized non-digital asset.
[0019d]      The mutual append only transactional log may be a blockchain ledger.
[0019e]      The method may optionally include transferring, by a cryptographic decoder,
the first digital asset from an open sub-account to a committed sub-account of the first
designated cryptographic account of the first signing server, wherein executing the
multi-party transaction further includes transferring, by a cryptographic encoder, the first
digital asset from the committed sub-account of the first designated cryptographic
account of the first signing server to an open sub-account of the second account of the
third signing server.
[0019f]      The method may optionally include executing a commit action with respect to
one or more of the plurality of obligation bundles.
                                                6

[0019g]      A designated cryptographic account may correspond to at least one of a
Holder Identification Number (HIN) or a Security Reference Number (SRN).
[0019h]      Additional pairs of obligations may be matched into obligation bundles and
additional net obligation bundles may be created from the additional pairs of obligations
and the method may optionally include batching execution of the additional net
obligation bundles using the locked digital assets while optimizing for a reduction of
number of obligations.
[0019i]      There is provided software, being machine readable instructions, that when
performed by a computer system causes the computer system to perform the above
method.
[0019j]      There is also provided a system for optimizing a multi-party transaction
involving digital assets wherein each party is associated with a signing server and one
or more cryptographic accounts comprising: a comparator to create a plurality of
obligation bundles by matching pairs of obligations from a plurality of digital asset
obligations and asset obligations wherein a digital asset obligation represents a transfer
of a digital asset and an asset obligation represents a transfer of an asset; a memory to
store the obligation bundles wherein one pair of obligations include: at least a first digital
asset obligation representing a transfer of a first digital asset from a first designated
cryptographic account of a first signing server to a second designated cryptographic
account of a second signing server; and at least a first asset obligation representing a
transfer of a first asset from a first account of the second signing server to a second
account of the first signing server; and wherein another pair of obligations include: at
least a second digital asset obligation representing a transfer of a second digital asset
from a second designated cryptographic account of the second signing server to a first
designated cryptographic account of a third signing server; and at least a second asset
obligation representing a transfer of a second asset from a second account of the third
signing server to a first account of the second signing server; the first signing server to
authorize the first digital asset obligation; the second signing server to authorize the
second digital asset obligation; a processor to: lock the first digital asset and the second
digital asset to enforce commitment to the authorized first digital asset obligation and
the authorized second digital asset obligation; create a new net obligation bundle from
                                              7

the obligation bundles to optimize for a reduction of overall obligations where
intermediate obligations are obviated whereby digital asset obligations are offset against
asset obligations including representing a transfer of a digital asset from the first signing
server to the third signing server and a representing a transfer of an asset from the third
signing server to the first signing server; and execute the multi-party transaction
including the new net obligation bundle by recording the multiparty transaction of the
digital assets on a mutual append-only transactional log.
[0019k]      The processor may be further configured to: transfer, by a cryptographic
decoder, the first digital asset from an open sub-account to a committed sub-account of
the first designated cryptographic account of the first signing server, wherein executing
the multi-party transaction further includes transferring, by a cryptographic encoder, the
first digital asset from the committed sub-account of the first designated cryptographic
account of the first signing server to an open sub-account of the second account of the
third signing server.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020]        Illustrative, non-limiting exemplary embodiments     may be more clearly
understood from the following detailed description, particularly when taken in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0021]        Figure 1 is a block diagram showing a digital asset management system
having a market administrator participant (e.g., central counterparty clearinghouse) for
registration of account IDs in a business logic engine (BLE) in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0022]        Figure 2 is a block diagram showing authorizers and the accounts they
service in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0023]        Figure 3 is a block diagram showing other authorizers and the customers
they service in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0024]        Figure 4 is a flowchart showing order matching and transaction processing in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0025]        Figure 5 is a hybrid diagram showing a bilateral match action in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                               8

[0026]      Figure 6 is a hybrid diagram showing an issuance action in accordance with
an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0027]      Figure 7 is a state diagram showing a first variant of a clearing and
settlement workflow in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0028]      Figure 8 is a state diagram showing a second variant of a clearing and
settlement workflow in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0029]      Figure 9 is a state diagram showing a third variant of a clearing and
settlement workflow in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0030]      Figure 10 is a state diagram showing a fourth variant of a clearing and
settlement workflow in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0031]      Figure 11 is a tabular diagram showing a decision process for selecting
among the first through fourth variants of Figures 7 through 10 in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0032]      Figure 12 is a hybrid diagram showing a centrally cleared match action in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0033]      Figure 13 is a hybrid diagram showing an allocation action in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0034]      Figure 14 is a hybrid diagram showing a multi-action allocation in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0035]      Figure 15 is a hybrid diagram showing a ready for settle action in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0036]      Figure 16 is a hybrid diagram showing another ready for settle action in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0037]      Figure 17 is a hybrid diagram showing a commit action in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0038]      Figure 18 is a hybrid diagram showing a settle action in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                            9

[0039]      Figure 19 is a hybrid diagram showing a repo with immediate settlement
action in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0040]      Figure 20 is a hybrid diagram showing a repo with as soon as possible
settlement action in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0041]      Figure 21 is a hybrid diagram showing a repo with end-of-day (EOD)
settlement action in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0042]      Figure 22 is a hybrid diagram showing a repo action with immediate
settlement and central counterparty clearinghouse (CCP) clearance in accordance with
an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0043]      Figure 23 is a hybrid diagram showing a repo action with as-soon-as
possible (ASAP) settlement and CCP clearance in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0044]      Figure 24 is a hybrid diagram showing a repo action with end-of-day (EOD)
settlement and CCP clearance in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0045]      Figure 25 is a hybrid diagram showing an obligations reduction action in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0046]      Figure 26 is a hybrid diagram showing an obligations reduction with
preference fee action in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure;
[0047]      Figure 27 is a hybrid diagram showing a settlement liquidity action in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0048]      Figure 28 is a hybrid diagram showing a settlement liquidity action in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0049]      Figure 29 is a hybrid diagram showing a settlement liquidity action with
preference fee in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0050]      Figure 30 is a hybrid diagram showing a basic net action with bilateral, same
name and same date attributes in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
                                            10

[0051]      Figure 31 is a hybrid diagram showing an intermediate net action with
bilateral, same name and same date attributes, and 'Ready for Settle' flag set in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0052]      Figure 32 is a hybrid diagram showing an advanced net action with bilateral
and same name, but across dates attributes in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0053]      Figure 33 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 1 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0054]      Figure 34 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 2 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0055]      Figure 35 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 3 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0056]      Figure 36 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 4 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0057]      Figure 37 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 5 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0058]      Figure 38 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 6 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0059]      Figure 39 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 7 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0060]      Figure 40 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 8 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
                                           11

[0061]     Figure 41 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 9 of a batched settlement for
Locked Inventory Optimization in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0062]     Figure 42 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 1 of a batched settlement for a
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0063]     Figure 43 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 2 of a batched settlement for a
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0064]     Figure 44 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 3 of a batched settlement for
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0065]     Figure 45 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 4 of a batched settlement for
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0066]     Figure 46 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 5 of a batched settlement for
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0067]     Figure 47 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 6 of a batched settlement for
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0068]     Figure 48 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 7 of a batched settlement for
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0069]     Figure 49 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 8 of a batched settlement for
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0070]     Figure 50 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 9 of a batched settlement for
generic commit in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0071]     Figure 51 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 1 of a cross-day netting
transaction in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0072]     Figure 52 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 2 of a cross-day netting
transaction in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0073]     Figure 53 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 3 of a cross-day netting
transaction in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0074]     Figure 54 is a hybrid diagram showing Step 4 of a cross-day netting
transaction in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure; and
[0075]     Figures 55-57 are hybrid diagrams showing a unified ledger of enduring and
repo obligations.
                                          12

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0076]      The present inventive concept is directed towards obligation management
and settlement, for both digital and traditional assets, with flexible settlement times,
including both enduring asset and repurchase agreement (repo) obligations in the same
market transaction.   The present inventive concept will be described more fully with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which exemplary embodiments are shown.
The present inventive concept may, however, be embodied in many different forms and
should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein.         Like
reference numerals may refer to like elements throughout this disclosure.
[0077]      An exemplary embodiment digital asset platform in accordance with the
present inventive concept allows for the creation of a mutualized transaction record, or
ledger, which contains an encrypted copy of all ledger entries for all participants in the
network. All parties to each ledger entry must cryptographically approve the entry in
order for it to become valid and accepted into the ledger. As a result, the ledger is an
append-only log of multi-party, multi-signature transactions that cannot be unilaterally
altered or edited by any single participant or without each participant being aware of the
alteration.   The combination of highly structured data and a multi-party confirmation
process creates an authoritative prime record, thus eliminating cross-party reconciliation
and providing the real-time state of each transaction. As settlement certainty and speed
increase, net risk and collateral requirements in the financial system generally
decrease.
[0078]      When a complete record of all obligations for an instrument or market are
maintained on such a unified platform and can be assured to be correct, there are
tremendous opportunities to reduce risk for intermediaries in the market and create
flexible settlement schema. The shift towards mutualized infrastructure and services is
already well underway, while the mutualization of authoritative data is just getting
started. The main barriers to a fully shared database are maintaining the integrity,
security, and privacy of the contents that each participant enjoys today from traditional
silos of information. An exemplary embodiment obligation management and settlement
system accepts fully dematerialized assets, including equities, securities and cash, can
                                             13

represent traditional assets external to the system, acquires price discovery external to
the system, including initial match and repo match, allows for other price discovery
internal to the system, including a ready to settle preference fee, and replicates roles
and responsibilities for trading participants (TP) such as dealers, clearing (CP) such as
members, central counterparty clearinghouses (CCP) such as market administrator
participants, and settlement participants (SP) such as custodians; and redefines
settlement workflows and opportunities. Bilateral transactions without a CCP or market
administrator are also representable.
[0079]      As used herein, an obligor is an entity that has issued an obligation to deliver
an asset of defined type, and an account is used for holding a fungible asset of defined
type. A token is a digital record or representation signifying ownership of an asset. The
asset may be a native digital asset, a traditional asset, or any right or duty, such as, but
not limited to, a contractual duty. An authorizer or controller represents the entity that is
required to approve and sign the presented action. A transition or transfer represents
the transfer of control from an entity that has issued an obligation to deliver an asset of
defined type. A primary asset reference is the reference for the primary obligation or
fungible asset defined in a transfer. A secondary asset reference is the reference for
the secondary obligation or fungible asset defined in a transfer. Obligation destruction
denotes the destruction of an obligation or atomic bundle of obligations in conjunction
with the creation of a new obligation or bundle or a final settlement.
[0080]      As shown in FIG. 1, an exemplary embodiment digital asset management
system 100 is configured for signing servers to register account identifications with a
business logic engine (BLE) implemented by a central counterparty clearinghouse
(CCP) or market administrator participant.           Here, the CCP 140 validates the
registrations of signing servers CP1 141, CP2 142, TP1 143, TP2 144, SP1 145, and
SP2 146. Dealer or trading participant TP1 is connected to customers 173; dealer or
trading participant TP2 is connected to customers 174; custodian or settlement
participant SP1 is connected to customers 175, which, in turn, are connected to sub
customers 185; and custodian or settlement participant SP2 is connected to customers
176, which, in turn, are connected to sub-customers 186.
                                              14

[0081]      Turning to FIG. 2, an exemplary embodiment authorizer and account
hierarchy 200 includes authorizers such as an agent 210, a custodian 212, a fund 214,
and a vendor 216. The authorizers, which may include agents, custodians, dealers,
large participants, and vendors, provide authorization. Here, the agent uses an agent's
signing server 220, the custodian uses a custodian's signing server 222, the fund uses
a fund's signing server 224, and the vendor uses a vendor's signing server 226.
[0082]      The signing servers service designated cryptographic accounts that have
delegated a respective authorizer. The accounts, in turn, provide access to a further list
of designated sub-accounts for the logical separation of inventory under an account
(e.g., 'Open' versus 'Commit').
[0083]      The agent's signing server services designated cryptographic accounts 230A
and 230B. Account 230A provides access for sub-accounts 230A1, 230A2 and 230A3;
while account 230B provides access for sub-accounts 230B1 and 230B2.
[0084]      The custodian's signing server services designated cryptographic accounts
232A, 232C and 232D. Account 232A provides access for sub-accounts 232A1 and
232A2; while account 232C provides access for sub-accounts 232C1, 232C2 and
232C3; and account 232D provides access for sub-accounts 232D1 and 232D2.
[0085]      The fund's signing server services designated cryptographic accounts 234C
and 234D. Account 234C provides access for sub-accounts 234C1, 234C2 and 234C3;
while account 234D provides access for sub-accounts 234D1 and 234D2.
[0086]      The vendor's signing server services designated cryptographic accounts
236A. 236B, 236C and 236D. Account 236A provides access for sub-accounts 236A1
and 236A2.      Account 236B provides access for sub-accounts 236B1 and 236B2.
Account 236C provides access for sub-accounts 236C1 and 236C2.            Account 236D
provides access for sub-accounts 236D1 and 236D2.
[0087]      Turning now to FIG. 3, an exemplary embodiment authorizer and account
hierarchical system adapted for the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 300. The system comprises authorizers including a
settlement participant (SP) 310, a clearing participant (CP) 312, a central counterparty
clearinghouse (CCP) 313, a trading participant (TP) 314, and a Registry 315.         The
authorizers are market participants that provide authorization. Signing servers are used
                                            15

by the market participants to authorize actions in the market. Here, the SP uses a first
signing server 320, the CP uses a second signing server 322, the CCP uses a third
signing server 323, the TP uses a fourth signing server 324, and the Issuer Registry
uses a fifth signing server 325.
[0088]      The signing servers service designated cryptographic accounts, which have
delegated a respective authorizer. The accounts, in turn, provide access to a further list
of designated sub-accounts for the logical separation of inventory under an account
(e.g., 'Open' versus 'Commit').
[0089]      The signing servers service designated accounts (e.g., cryptographic
accounts) that have designated the authorizers. The SP's signing server 320 services
designated cryptographic accounts for participant principal        Holder Identification
Numbers (HINs) 330, direct HINs 331, and sponsor HINs 332. HINs are used by the
Clearing House Electronic Sub-register System (CHESS), which is the system used by
the ASX to record share holdings.        The CCP's signing server 323 services ASX
Sponsored HINs 333. The TP's signing server 324 services Customer IDs 334. The
Issuer Registry's signing server 325 services Security Reference Numbers (SRNs) 335
for issuer-sponsored shares.
[0090]      The designated cryptographic accounts may have designated sub-accounts
for the logical separation of inventory under an account (e.g., 'Open' or 'Commit'). For
example, Participant Principal HIN accounts may have sub-accounts including CP sub
accounts, CCP sub-accounts, and TP sub-accounts, where the TP sub-accounts may
have further Generic Customer sub-sub-accounts. The various HIN accounts may each
have Open ("0") and Commit ("C") sub-accounts.
[0091]      As shown in FIG. 4, a business method for order matching and transaction
processing is indicated generally by the reference numeral 400. Here, a start block 410
passes control to a processing block 412, which receives an order from Party A and
passes control to a processing block 414. The block 414 receives an order from Party
B, and passes control to a processing block 416. The block 416 matches the order of
Party A with the order of Party B to produce a Business Intent Message (BIM), and
passes control to a Business Logic Engine (BLE) function call block 418. The block 418
calls the BLE function passing the BIM as an input, and returns a Business Intent
                                            16

Transaction (BIT).    The block 418 passes control to an end block 420.        It shall be
understood that blocks 410 through 414 are provided for context, and that the presently
described exemplary embodiment of the inventive concept is addressed by blocks 430
through 458.
[0092]      A BLE function start block 430 passes control to a processing block 432,
which receives the BIM and passes control to a Strategy Builder function call block 434,
which, in turn, passes control to a processing block 436. The block 436 inserts return
parameters from the Strategy Builder into a data structure, and passes control to a
processing block 438. The block 438 produces a BIT transaction, and passes control to
a processing block 440.      The block 440 coordinates signing of the BIT and passes
control to a processing block 442. The block 442, in turn, coordinates execution of the
BIT and passes control to a processing block 444. The block 444 commits the BIT to a
mutual append-only transactional log or distributed ledger, and passes control to a
return block 446. While this exemplary embodiment uses the described order of sign
440, execute 442 and commit 444 all on-ledger, an alternate embodiment may use an
off-ledger message queue and the different order of execute 442 and then sign 440,
both off-ledger, with only the final commit 444 being written to the ledger.
[0093]      A Strategy Builder function start block 450 passes control to a processing
block 452. The block 452 selects an algorithm from a set of pre-defined algorithms
based on the type of transaction represented by the BIM, and passes control to a
processing block 454.      The block 454 searches the relationship nodes for available
actors, and passes control to a processing block 456.             The block 456, in turn,
determines the return parameters and passes control to a return block 458.
[0094]      Turning to FIG. 5, a bilateral match action is indicated generally by the
reference numeral 500. Here, a bundle includes a first obligation of customer A as
obligor using a central counterparty clearinghouse CCP as authorizer to transfer
quantity 1000 of primary asset $XYZ to the account of Customer B. The bundle
includes a second obligation of customer B as obligor using the CCP as authorizer to
transfer quantity 6000 of secondary asset USD to the account of Customer A.
[0095]      Turning now to FIG. 6, an issuance action is indicated generally by the
reference numeral 600.       Here, a transaction includes a single authorization of an
                                             17

administrative party (e.g., a central counterparty clearinghouse CCP) to create quantity
1000 of asset $XYZ to an Issuer's account, where the next authorizer is settlement
participant SP1 on behalf of (OBO) Issuer.
[0096]      As shown in FIG. 7, a state diagram for Clearing and Settlement (C&S)
Workflow, Variant 1 (V1), is indicated generally by the reference numeral 700. Here,
reference numerals 701-716 (above the dashed line) refer to the states of obligations,
while reference numerals 720-738 (below the dashed line) refer to the states of fungible
assets.
[0097]      An Initial State 701, with respect to a transaction comprising at least one
bundle of obligations, is transitioned by ADMIN to a Matched state 710. The obligations
of PARTY A and PARTY B are transitioned by the respective obligors from the Matched
state to an Allocated state 712, and may be re-allocated as needed by the respective
obligors.   For example, re-allocation may be for correction, or for breaking an order
down further where the trade is generically tagged at match, assigned to a new party,
and then re-assigned a number of times in parts.        The obligations of PARTY A and
PARTY B are then transitioned by the respective obligors from the Allocated state to a
Ready for Settle state 714.
[0098]      PARTY A's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state 720, and
transitioned to a Committed account state 722 by a Settlement Party (SP) on behalf of
(OBO) PARTY A (PA). PARTY B's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state
730, and transitioned to a Committed account state 732 by a Settlement Party on behalf
of (OBO) PARTY B (PB). Once all necessary fungible assets are in Committed account
states, the obligations state may be transitioned from the Ready to Settle state to a
Settled state 716 by a Settlement Party on behalf of PARTY A and a Settlement Party
on behalf of PARTY B, each for their respective fungible assets. Each action obligation
remains under the control of the direct participants until passed to custodians with the
'ready for settle' action. Once settled, Party A's original asset is moved to an Open
account state 728, and Party B's original asset is moved to an Open account state 738.
Here, the SP is not allowed to touch accounts in an Open state, but the SP is allowed to
use the inventory from accounts in a Commit state.         In alternate embodiments, the
concepts of different accounts or account states may extend to many more separations,
                                            18

such as, for example, 'encumbered' meaning it is being used in another system, or
'stepped on' meaning it is reserved for something in particular.
[0099]      Turning to FIG. 8, a state diagram for Clearing and Settlement (C&S)
Workflow, Variant 2 (V2), is indicated generally by the reference numeral 800. Here,
reference numerals 801-816 (above the dashed line) refer to the states of obligations,
while reference numerals 820-838 (below the dashed line) refer to the states of fungible
assets.
[00100]     An Initial State 801, with respect to a transaction comprising at least one
bundle of obligations, is transitioned by ADMIN to a Matched state 810. The obligations
of PARTY A and PARTY B are transitioned by the respective obligors from the Matched
state to a Ready for Settle state 814.
[00101]     PARTY A's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state 820, and
transitioned to a Committed account state 822 by a Settlement Party on behalf of (OBO)
PARTY A (PA). PARTY B's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state 830, and
transitioned to a Committed account state 832 by a Settlement Party on behalf of (OBO)
PARTY B (PB). Once all necessary fungible assets are in Committed account states,
the obligations state may be transitioned from the Ready to Settle state to a Settled
state 816 by a Settlement Party on behalf of PARTY A and a Settlement Party on behalf
of PARTY B, each for their respective fungible assets. Once settled, Party A's original
asset is moved to an Open account state 828, and Party B's original asset is moved to
an Open account state 838.
[00102]     Turning now to FIG. 9, a state diagram for Clearing and Settlement (C&S)
Workflow, Variant 3 (V3), is indicated generally by the reference numeral 900. Here,
reference numerals 901-916 (above the dashed line) refer to the states of obligations,
while reference numerals 920-938 (below the dashed line) refer to the states of fungible
assets.
[00103]     An Initial State 901, with respect to a transaction comprising at least one
bundle of obligations, is transitioned by ADMIN to a Ready for Settle state 914. PARTY
A's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state 920, and transitioned to a
Committed account state 922 by a Settlement Party on behalf of (OBO) PARTY A (PA).
PARTY B's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state 930, and transitioned to a
                                            19

Committed account state 932 by a Settlement Party on behalf of (OBO) PARTY B (PB).
Once all necessary fungible assets are in Committed account states, the obligations
state may be transitioned from the Ready to Settle state to a Settled state 916 by a
Settlement Party on behalf of PARTY A and a Settlement Party on behalf of PARTY B,
each for their respective fungible assets.     Once settled, Party A's original asset is
moved to an Open account state 928, and Party B's original asset is moved to an Open
account state 938.
[00104]     As shown in FIG. 10, a state diagram for Clearing and Settlement (C&S)
Workflow, Variant 4 (V4), is indicated generally by the reference numeral 1000. Here,
reference numerals 1001-1016 (above the dashed line) refer to the states of obligations,
while reference numerals 1020-1038 (below the dashed line) refer to the states of
fungible assets.
[00105]     An Initial State 1001, with respect to a transaction comprising at least one
bundle of obligations, is transitioned by ADMIN to a Matched state 1010.             The
obligations of PARTY A and PARTY B are each transitioned by a respective settlement
party on behalf of PARTY A and PARTY B from the Matched state to an Allocated state
1012, and may be re-allocated as needed by the respective settlement party on behalf
of PARTY A and PARTY B.
[00106]     PARTY A's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state 1020, and
transitioned to a Committed account state 1022 by a Settlement Party on behalf of
(OBO) PARTY A (PA). PARTY B's fungible asset is placed in an Open account state
1030, and transitioned to a Committed account state 1032 by a Settlement Party on
behalf of (OBO) PARTY B (PB). Once all necessary fungible assets are in Committed
account states, the obligations state may be transitioned from the Allocated state to a
Settled state 1016 by a Settlement Party on behalf of PARTY A and a Settlement Party
on behalf of PARTY B, each for their respective fungible assets. Once settled, Party A's
original asset is moved to an Open account state 1028, and Party B's original asset is
moved to an Open account state 1038.
[00107]     Turning to FIG. 11, one of Variants 1, 2, 3, and 4 of FIGs. 7, 8, 9, and 10,
respectively, may be selected for each transaction based on TP1 Rules indicated
generally by the reference numeral 1100.        The Variant used may be selected by
                                            20

customer (e.g., V1 for Customer 1, V2 for Customer 2, V3 for Customer 3), by clearer
(e.g., V3 for CP1 or CP2), by asset (e.g., V4 for $XYZ), by size of trade (e.g., all trades
over $1,000,000), by open risk (e.g., V1 for any customer with over $1,000,000 worth of
open obligations), or by opposing endpoint (e.g., V1 for TP2, V2 for TP3).         Here, a
differential for workflow based on opposing endpoint may be useful for the optionality
around a credit-based net or settlement.
[00108]     Turning now to FIG. 12, an exchange traded match action is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 1200.        Here, a transaction includes six bundles
denoted Bundle 1 through Bundle 6.
[00109]      Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of trading participant TP1's Customer
using a central counterparty clearinghouse CCP as current authorizer to transfer
quantity 1000 of primary asset $XYZ to TP1. The bundle includes a second obligation
of TP1 using the CCP as authorizer to transfer quantity 6000 of secondary asset USD to
TP1's Customer, where the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of Issuer.
[00110]      Bundle 2 includes a first obligation of TP1 using the CCP as authorizer to
transfer quantity 1000 of primary asset $XYZ to clearing participant CP1.     The bundle
includes a second obligation of CP1 using the CCP as authorizer to transfer quantity
6000 of secondary asset USD to TP1.
[00111]      Bundle 3 includes a first obligation of CP1 using the CCP as authorizer to
transfer quantity 1000 of primary asset $XYZ to CCP. The bundle includes a second
obligation of CCP using itself as authorizer to transfer quantity 6000 of secondary asset
USD to CP1.
[00112]      Bundle 4 includes a first obligation of CCP using itself as authorizer to
transfer quantity 1000 of primary asset $XYZ to clearing participant CP2. The bundle
includes a second obligation of CP2 using the CCP as authorizer to transfer quantity
6000 of secondary asset USD to trading participant TP2.
[00113]      Bundle 5 includes a first obligation of CP2 using the CCP as authorizer to
transfer quantity 1000 of primary asset $XYZ to TP2. The bundle includes a second
obligation of TP2 using the CCP as authorizer to transfer quantity 6000 of secondary
asset USD to CP2.
                                             21

[00114]     Bundle 6 includes a first obligation of TP2 using CCP as authorizer to
transfer quantity 1000 of primary asset $XYZ to TP2'S Customer, where the next
authorizer is TP2 on behalf of TP2's Customer.            The bundle includes a second
obligation of TP2's Customer using the CCP as authorizer to transfer quantity 6000 of
secondary asset USD to TP2.
[00115]     As shown in FIG. 13, an allocation action is indicated generally by the
reference numeral 1300. Here, a transaction includes a first Bundle 1 and a second
Bundle 2.
[00116]     Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver quantity
1000 of asset $XYZ to TP1 where the transfer authorizer is TP1, and the next authorizer
is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity
6000 USD to TP1's Customer where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of TP1's
Customer, and the next authorizer is not applicable. Here, Bundle 1 has been burned
or destroyed in favor of replacement Bundle 7
[00117]     Bundle 7 includes a first obligation of Seller to deliver quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to TP1 where TP1 on behalf of Seller is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 is the
next authorizer. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity
6000 of asset USD to Seller where TP1 is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 on behalf of
Seller is the next authorizer.
[00118]     Turning to FIG. 14, a multi-action allocation is indicated generally by the
reference numeral 1400. Here, a transaction includes Bundles 1, 8 and 9.
[00119]     Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver quantity
1000 of asset $XYZ to TP1 where the transfer authorizer is TP1, and the next authorizer
is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity
6000 USD to TP1's Customer where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of TP1's
Customer, and the next authorizer is not applicable. Here, Bundle 1 has been burned
or destroyed in favor of replacement Bundles 8 and 9.
[00120]     Bundle 8 includes a first obligation of A to deliver quantity 500 of asset $XYZ
to TP1 where TP1 on behalf of A is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 is the next
authorizer. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity 3000 of
                                              22

asset USD to TP1 where TP1 is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 on behalf of A is the
next authorizer.
[00121]     Bundle 9 includes a first obligation of B to deliver quantity 500 of asset $XYZ
to TP1 where TP1 on behalf of B is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 is the next
authorizer. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity 3000 of
asset USD to TP1 where TP1 is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 on behalf of B is the
next authorizer.
[00122]     Turning now to FIG. 15, a ready for settle action is indicated generally by the
reference numeral 1500. Here, a transaction includes Bundles 7 and 10.
[00123]     Bundle 7 includes a first obligation of Seller to deliver quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to TP1 where TP1 on behalf of Seller is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 is the
next authorizer. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity
6000 of asset USD to Seller where TP1 is the transfer authorizer, and TP1 on behalf of
Seller is the next authorizer. Here, Bundle 7 has been burned in favor of Bundle 10.
[00124]     Bundle 10 includes a first obligation of Seller to deliver quantity 1000 of $XYZ
to TP1, where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Seller and the next authorizer
is SP1. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity 6000 of USD
to Seller where TP1 is the transfer authorizer and SP1 is the next authorizer.
[00125]     As shown in FIG. 16, another ready for settle action is indicated generally by
the reference numeral 1600. A transaction includes Bundles A, B, C and D. Here, each
participant has its custodian (SP1 or SP2, respectively), and the CCP uses SP1.
[00126]     The first Bundle A includes a first obligation of clearing participant CP1 to
deliver quantity 1000 of $XYZ asset to central counterparty clearinghouse CCP where
CCP is the current authorizer and the next authorizer is not applicable.           Bundle A
includes a second obligation of CCP to deliver quantity 6000 of fungible asset USD to
CP1 where CP1 is the current authorizer and the next authorizer is not applicable.
Here, Bundle A is burned in favor of Bundle B.
[00127]     The second Bundle B includes a first obligation of clearing participant CP1 to
deliver quantity 1000 of $XYZ asset to CCP where CP1 is the current authorizer and the
next authorizer is settlement participant SP1.    Bundle B includes a second obligation of
                                              23

CCP to deliver quantity 6000 of fungible asset USD to CP1 where CCP is the current
authorizer and the next authorizer is SP1.
[00128]     The third Bundle C includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver quantity 1000
of $XYZ asset to CP2 where CP2 is the current authorizer and the next authorizer is not
applicable. Bundle C includes a second obligation of CP2 to deliver quantity 6000 of
fungible asset USD to CCP where CCP is the current authorizer and the next authorizer
is not applicable. Here, Bundle C is burned in favor of Bundle D.
[00129]     The fourth Bundle D includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver quantity
1000 of asset $XYZ to CP2 where CCP is the current authorizer and the next authorizer
is SP2.    Bundle B includes a second obligation of CCP to deliver quantity 6000 of
fungible asset USD to CCP where CP2 is the current authorizer and the next authorizer
is SP2.
[00130]     Turning to FIG. 17, a commit action is indicated generally by the reference
numeral 1700. The commit action includes two transactions.
[00131]     Dealers may net out in the batch process, but in this example the customer
has requested to settle immediately and the dealer has agreed to facilitate that. In this
case, the dealer will deliver cash tokens to the seller and hold the asset.
[00132]     The first transaction comprises a transfer from Seller's Open account to
Seller's Commit account of quantity 1000 of asset $XYZ, where both the current and
next authorizers are SP1 on behalf of Seller. The second comprises a transfer from
TP1's Open account to TP1's Commit account of quantity 6000 of asset USD, where
both the current and next authorizers are SP1 on behalf of TP1.
[00133]     Turning now to FIG. 18, a settle action is indicated generally by the reference
numeral 1800. Here, the transaction includes an obligation Bundle to be burned and a
transaction pair.
[00134]     The Bundle includes a first obligation of Seller to deliver quantity 1000 of
asset $XYZ to trading participant TP1, where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of
Seller and the next authorizer is not applicable.         The Bundle includes a second
obligation of TP1 to deliver quantity 6000 of USD to Seller, where the transfer authorizer
is TP1 and the next authorizer is not applicable.
                                             24

[00135]    The transaction pair includes a first transfer leg from Seller's Commit account
to TP1's Open account of 1000 shares of dollar denominated asset $XYZ, where the
transfer authorizer is SP1 on behalf of Seller and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of
TP1. The transaction pair includes a second transfer leg from TP1's Commit account to
Seller's Open account of 6000 USD, where the transfer authorizer is SP1 on behalf of
TP1 and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of Seller.
[00136]    As shown in FIG. 19, a repo with immediate settlement action is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 1900. Here, a transaction includes a Bundle On leg,
a Bundle Off leg, and a pair of transfers.
[00137]    The Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of Repo to deliver $6000 OF
$XYZ to Reverse, where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo and the next
authorizer is SP1 on behalf of Repo (cash borrower, shares lender). The Bundle On
includes a second obligation of Reverse to deliver 6000 USD to Repo, where the
transfer authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and the next authorizer is SP2 on behalf
of Reverse (cash lender, shares borrower). Repo always trades in dollar ($) quantity of
an asset.    Here, the obligation is defined as $6000 OF $XYZ and this transaction
assumes an 'anchor price' of $6, which may be set or the market price of the asset so
that it may be determined how many shares are included in the transaction.          Partial
shares can't move, so the dollar ($) amount may be tweaked to the nearest integer of
shares meeting the minimum required borrow amount.
[00138]    The Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of Repo to deliver 6000 USD
plus interest to Reverse, where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo and the
next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo.         The Bundle Off leg includes a second
obligation of Reverse to deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to Repo, where the transfer authorizer
is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo. In order
to advance a Repo obligation, the lender of the asset maintains the right to call back the
lent asset independent of the borrower.       Thus, the lender of the asset holds both
obligations on the Off leg.
[00139]    The first transfer is from Repo's Open account to Repo's Commit account for
$6000 worth of $XYZ shares, where both the transfer and next authorizers are SP1 on
behalf of Repo. The second transfer is from Reverse's Open account to Reverse's
                                             25

Commit account for 6000 USD, where both the transfer authorizer and the next
authorizer are SP2 on behalf of Reverse.
[00140]     Turning to FIG. 20, a repo with as soon as possible settlement action is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 2000.        Here, a transaction includes a
Bundle On leg and a Bundle Off leg.
[00141]     The Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of Repo (cash borrower, shares
lender) to deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to Reverse (cash lender, shares borrower), where the
current authorizer (transfer authorizer) is TP1 on behalf of Repo and the next authorizer
is SP1 on behalf of Repo. The Bundle On leg includes a second obligation of Reverse
to deliver 6000 USD to Repo, where the current authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse
and the next authorizer is SP2 on behalf of Reverse.
[00142]     The Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of Repo to deliver 6000 USD
plus interest to Reverse, where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo and the
next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Reverse. The Bundle Off leg includes a second
obligation of Reverse to deliver $6000 worth of $XYZ to Repo, where the transfer
authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of
Repo.
[00143]     Turning now to FIG. 21, a repo with end-of-day (EOD) settlement action is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 2100.        Here, a transaction includes a
Bundle On leg and a Bundle Off leg.
[00144]     The Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of Repo (cash borrower, shares
lender) to deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to Reverse (cash lender, shares borrower), where the
current authorizer (transfer authorizer) is TP1 on behalf of Repo and the next authorizer
is TP1 on behalf of Repo. The Bundle On leg includes a second obligation of Reverse
to deliver 6000 USD to Repo, where the current authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse
and the next authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse.
[00145]     The Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of Repo to deliver 6000 USD
plus interest to Reverse, where the transfer authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo and the
next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Reverse. The Bundle Off leg includes a second
obligation of Reverse to deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to Repo, where the current authorizer
is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo.
                                             26

[00146]    As shown in FIG. 22, a repo action with immediate settlement and CCP
clearance is indicated generally by the reference numeral 2200. Here, a transaction
includes a first Bundle On leg, a first Bundle Off leg, a second Bundle On leg, a second
Bundle Off leg, and a pair or transfers.
[00147]    The first Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of Repo (cash borrower,
shares lender) to deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to CCP, where the current authorizer is TP1
on behalf of Repo and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of CCP. The first Bundle On
leg includes a second obligation of CCP to deliver 6000 USD to Repo, where the
current authorizer is CCP and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of Repo.
[00148]    The first Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of Repo to deliver 6000
USD plus interest to CCP, where both the current authorizer and next authorizer are
TP1 on behalf of Repo. The first Bundle Off leg includes a second obligation of CCP to
deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to Repo, where the current authorizer is CCP and the next
authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo. In order to advance a Repo obligation, the lender
of the asset shares maintains the right to call back the lent asset independent of the
borrower. Thus, the lender of the asset holds both obligations as next authorizer on the
Off leg.
[00149]    The second Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver $6000
OF $XYZ to Reverse (cash lender, shares borrower), where the current authorizer is
CCP and the next authorizer is SP2 on behalf of Reverse. The second Bundle On leg
includes a second obligation of Reverse to deliver 6000 USD to CCP, where the current
authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of CCP.
[00150]    The second Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver 6000
USD plus interest to Reverse, where both the current authorizer and next authorizer are
CCP. The second Bundle Off leg includes a second obligation of Reverse to deliver
$6000 OF $XYZ to CCP, where the current authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and
the next authorizer is CCP.
[00151]    The first transfer is from Repo's Open account to Repo's Commit account for
$6000 worth of $XYZ shares, where both the current and next authorizers are SP1 on
behalf of Repo (cash borrower, shares lender). The second transfer is from Reverse's
Open account to Reverse's Commit account for 6000 USD, where both the transfer
                                             27

authorizer and the next authorizer are SP2 on behalf of Reverse (cash lender, shares
borrower).
[00152]    Turning to FIG. 23, a repo action with as-soon-as-possible (ASAP)
settlement and CCP clearance is indicated generally by the reference numeral 2300.
Here, a transaction includes a first Bundle On leg, a first Bundle Off leg, a second
Bundle On leg, and a second Bundle Off leg.
[00153]    The first Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of Repo (cash borrower,
shares lender) to deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to CCP, where the current authorizer is TP1
on behalf of Repo and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of CCP. The first Bundle On
leg includes a second obligation of CCP to deliver 6000 USD to Repo, where the
current authorizer is CCP and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of Repo.
[00154]    The first Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of Repo to deliver 6000
USD plus interest to CCP, where both the current authorizer and next authorizer are
TP1 on behalf of Repo. The first Bundle Off leg includes a second obligation of CCP to
deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to Repo, where the current authorizer is CCP and the next
authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo. In order to advance a Repo obligation, the lender
of the asset shares maintains the right to call back the lent asset independent of the
borrower. Thus, the lender of the asset holds both obligations as next authorizer on the
Off leg.
[00155]    The second Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver $6000
OF $XYZ to Reverse (cash lender, shares borrower), where the current authorizer is
CCP and the next authorizer is SP2 on behalf of Reverse. The second Bundle On leg
includes a second obligation of Reverse to deliver 6000 USD to CCP, where the current
authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of CCP.
[00156]    The second Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver 6000
USD plus interest to Reverse, where both the current authorizer and next authorizer are
CCP. The second Bundle Off leg includes a second obligation of Reverse to deliver
$6000 OF $XYZ to CCP, where the current authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and
the next authorizer is CCP.
[00157]    Turning now to FIG. 24, a repo action with end-of-day (EOD) settlement and
CCP clearance is indicated generally by the reference numeral 2400.             Here, a
                                           28

transaction includes a first Bundle On leg, a first Bundle Off leg, a second Bundle On
leg, and a second Bundle Off leg.
[00158]    The first Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of Repo (cash borrower,
shares lender) to deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to CCP, where the current authorizer is TP1
on behalf of Repo and the next authorizer is CCP. The first Bundle On leg includes a
second obligation of CCP to deliver 6000 USD to Repo, where the current authorizer is
CCP and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo.
[00159]    The first Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of Repo to deliver 6000
USD plus interest to CCP, where both the current authorizer and next authorizer are
TP1 on behalf of Repo. The first Bundle Off leg includes a second obligation of CCP to
deliver $6000 OF $XYZ to Repo, where the current authorizer is CCP and the next
authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Repo. In order to advance a Repo obligation, the lender
of the asset maintains the right to call back the lent asset independent of the borrower.
Thus, the lender of the asset holds both obligations as next authorizer on the Off leg.
[00160]    The second Bundle On leg includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver $6000
OF $XYZ to Reverse (cash lender, shares borrower), where the current authorizer is
CCP and the next authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse. The second Bundle On leg
includes a second obligation of Reverse to deliver 6000 USD to CCP, where the current
authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and the next authorizer is CCP.
[00161]    The second Bundle Off leg includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver 6000
USD plus interest to Reverse, where both the current authorizer and next authorizer are
CCP. The second Bundle Off leg includes a second obligation of Reverse to deliver
$6000 OF $XYZ to CCP, where the current authorizer is TP2 on behalf of Reverse and
the next authorizer is CCP.
[00162]    As shown in FIG. 25, an obligations reduction action is indicated generally by
the reference numeral 2500. If 'Ready for Settle' is flagged and an existing participant
accepts, this can trigger a reduction in overall obligations. Here, a transaction includes
Bundles 1 through 5, which are obviated and destroyed, and a new Bundle 11.
[00163]    Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of trading participant TP1's Customer to
transfer quantity 1000 of asset $XYZ to TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1 and
the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to
                                            29

transfer 6000 USD to TP1's Customer, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next
authorizer is not applicable.    The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have
been obviated and destroyed.
[00164]    Bundle 2 includes a first obligation of TP1 to transfer quantity 1000 of primary
asset $XYZ to clearing participant CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1 and next
authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of CP1 to transfer
6000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next authorizer is not
applicable. The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have been obviated and
destroyed.
[00165]    Bundle 3 includes a first obligation of CP1 to transfer quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to central counterparty clearinghouse CCP, where the current authorizer is CCP
and the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of
CCP to deliver 6000 USD to CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1 and the next
authorizer is not applicable.    The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have
been obviated and destroyed.
[00166]    Bundle 4 includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to clearing participant CP2, where the current authorizer is CP2 and the next
authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of CP2 to deliver
6000 USD to CCP, where the current authorizer is CCP and the next authorizer is not
applicable. The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have been obviated and
destroyed.
[00167]    Bundle 5 includes a first obligation of CP2 to deliver quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to trading participant TP2, where the current authorizer is TP2 and the next
authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP2 to transfer
6000 USD to CP2, where the current authorizer is CP2 and the next authorizer is not
applicable. The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have been obviated and
destroyed.
[00168]    New Bundle 11 includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to transfer
quantity 1000 of asset $XYZ to TP2, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next
authorizer is settlement participant SP1. The new bundle includes a second obligation
                                             30

of TP2 to transfer 6000 USD to TP1's Customer, where the current authorizer is TP2
and the next authorizer is settlement participant SP2.
[00169]    Turning to FIG. 26, an obligations reduction with preference fee action is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 2600. If 'Ready for Settle' is flagged and
an existing participant accepts, this can trigger a reduction in overall obligations.
Moreover, preference can be expressed with a fee or price to be paid for the
preference. Here, a transaction includes Bundles 1 through 5, which are obviated and
destroyed as in the previous figure, and a new Bundle 11.
[00170]    Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of trading participant TP1's Customer to
transfer quantity 1000 of asset $XYZ to TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1 and
the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1 to
transfer 6000 USD to TP1's Customer, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next
authorizer is not applicable.    The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have
been obviated and destroyed.
[00171]    Bundle 2 includes a first obligation of TP1 to transfer quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to clearing participant CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1 and next
authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of CP1 to transfer
6000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next authorizer is not
applicable. The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have been obviated and
destroyed.
[00172]    Bundle 3 includes a first obligation of CP1 to transfer quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to central counterparty clearinghouse CCP, where the current authorizer is CCP
and the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of
CCP to deliver 6000 USD to CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1 and the next
authorizer is not applicable.    The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have
been obviated and destroyed.
[00173]    Bundle 4 includes a first obligation of CCP to deliver quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to clearing participant CP2, where the current authorizer is CP2 and the next
authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of CP2 to deliver
6000 USD to CCP, where the current authorizer is CCP and the next authorizer is not
                                             31

applicable. The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have been obviated and
destroyed.
[00174]     Bundle 5 includes a first obligation of CP2 to deliver quantity 1000 of asset
$XYZ to trading participant TP2, where the current authorizer is TP2 and the next
authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of TP2 to transfer
6000 USD to CP2, where the current authorizer is CP2 and the next authorizer is not
applicable. The strike-throughs indicate that both obligations have been obviated and
destroyed.
[00175]     New Bundle 11 includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to transfer
quantity 1000 of asset $XYZ to TP2, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next
authorizer is settlement participant SP1. The new bundle includes a second obligation
of TP2 to transfer 6000 USD to TP1's Customer, where the current authorizer is TP2
and the next authorizer is settlement participant SP2. The new bundle includes a third
obligation of TP1's Customer to transfer 25 USD to TP2, where the current authorizer is
TP1 and the next authorizer is SP1.
[00176]     Turning now to FIG. 27, a settlement liquidity action is indicated generally by
the reference numeral 2700. Here, if an existing counterparty or intermediary does not
accept early settlement, a separate participant can step in and offer settlement liquidity.
Here, a transaction includes two Bundles and two transfers.
[00177]     The first Bundle includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver 1000
$XYZ shares to the Liquidity Provider at time NOW, where the current authorizer is TP1
on behalf of TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is SP1.         The bundle includes a
second obligation of the Liquidity Provider to deliver 6000 USD to Customer at time
NOW, where the current authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider and the
next authorizer is SP1.
[00178]     The second Bundle includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver
6000 USD to the Liquidity Provider at time t+2, where the current authorizer is TP1 on
behalf of TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity
Provider. The bundle includes a second obligation of the Liquidity Provider to deliver
1000 $XYZ shares to Customer at time t+2, where the current authorizer is TP1 on
behalf of the Liquidity Provider and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Customer.
                                              32

[00179]     The first transfer is from TP1 Customer's Open account to TP1 Customer's
Commit account of 1000 $XYZ shares, where the current authorizer is SP1 on behalf of
TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider. The
second transfer is from the Liquidity Provider's Open account to the Liquidity Provider's
Commit account of 6000 USD, where the current authorizer is SP1 on behalf of the
Liquidity Provider and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of TP1's Customer.
[00180]     Turning now to FIG. 28, a settlement liquidity action with preference fee is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 2800. Here, if an existing counterparty or
intermediary does not accept early settlement, a separate participant can step in and
offer settlement liquidity and the preference can include a fee on the immediate
settlement. Here, a transaction includes two Bundles and three transfers.
[00181]     The first Bundle includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver 1000
$XYZ shares to the Liquidity Provider at time NOW, where the current authorizer is TP1
on behalf of TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is SP1.         The bundle includes a
second obligation of the Liquidity Provider to deliver 6000 USD to Customer at time
NOW, where the current authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider and the
next authorizer is SP1.     The bundle includes a third obligation of TP1's Customer to
deliver 25 USD to the Liquidity Provider at time NOW, where the current authorizer is
TP1 on behalf of TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is SP1.
[00182]     The second Bundle includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver
6000 USD to the Liquidity Provider at time t+2, where the current authorizer is TP1 on
behalf of TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity
Provider. The bundle includes a second obligation of the Liquidity Provider to deliver
1000 $XYZ shares to Customer at time t+2, where the current authorizer is TP1 on
behalf of the Liquidity Provider and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Customer.
[00183]     The first transfer is from TP1 Customer's Open account to TP1 Customer's
Commit account of 1000 $XYZ shares, where the current authorizer is SP1 on behalf of
TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider. The
second transfer is from TP1 Customer's Open account to TP1 Customer's Commit
account of 25 USD, where the current authorizer is SP1 on behalf of TP1's Customer
and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider. The third transfer is
                                              33

from the Liquidity Provider's Open account to the Liquidity Provider's Commit account of
6000 USD, where the current authorizer is SP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider and
the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of TP1's Customer.
[00184]     As shown in FIG. 29, a settlement liquidity action with preference fee is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 2900. Here, if an existing counterparty or
intermediary does not accept early settlement, a separate participant can step in and
offer settlement liquidity and the preference can include a fee on the later dated
obligation. Such a transaction includes two Bundles and two transfers.
[00185]     The first Bundle includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver 1000
$XYZ shares to the Liquidity Provider at time NOW, where the current authorizer is TP1
on behalf of TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is SP1.         The bundle includes a
second obligation of the Liquidity Provider to deliver 6000 USD to Customer at time
NOW, where the current authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider and the
next authorizer is SP1.
[00186]     The second Bundle includes a first obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver 25
USD to the Liquidity Provider at time t+2, where the current authorizer is TP1 on behalf
of TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider.
The bundle includes a second obligation of TP1's Customer to deliver 6000 USD to the
Liquidity Provider at time t+2, where the current authorizer is TP1 on behalf of TP1's
Customer and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider. The bundle
includes a third obligation of the Liquidity Provider to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to
Customer at time t+2, where the current authorizer is TP1 on behalf of the Liquidity
Provider and the next authorizer is TP1 on behalf of Customer.
[00187]     The first transfer is from TP1 Customer's Open account to TP1 Customer's
Commit account of 1000 $XYZ shares, where the current authorizer is SP1 on behalf of
TP1's Customer and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of the Liquidity Provider. The
second transfer is from the Liquidity Provider's Open account to the Liquidity Provider's
Commit account of 6000 USD, where the current authorizer is SP1 on behalf of the
Liquidity Provider and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of TP1's Customer.
                                              34

[00188]    Turning to FIG. 30, a basic net action with bilateral, same name and same
date attributes is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3000.          Here, a
transaction includes six bundles, Bundle 1 through Bundle 6.
[00189]     Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to
CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 6000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is
TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00190]     Bundle 2 includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to
CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 3000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is
TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00191]     Bundle 3 includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver 2000 $XYZ shares to
CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 12000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is
TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00192]     Bundle 4 includes a first obligation of CP1 to deliver 2000 $XYZ shares to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of TP1 to deliver 11000 USD to CP1, where the current authorizer is
CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00193]     Bundle 5 includes a first obligation of CP1 to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of TP1 to deliver 5500 USD to CP1, where the current authorizer is
                                            35

CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00194]     Bundle 6, which is the net bundle, includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver
500 $XYZ shares to CP1, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next authorizer is
CP1.    The bundle includes a second obligation of CP1 to deliver 4500 USD to TP1,
where the current authorizer is CP1 and the next authorizer is TP1.
[00195]     As shown in FIG. 31, an intermediate net action with bilateral, same name
and same date attributes, and 'Ready for Settle' flag set, is indicated generally by the
reference numeral 3100. Here, a transaction includes six bundles, Bundle 1 through
Bundle 6.
[00196]     Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of trading participant TP1 to deliver 1000
$XYZ shares to clearing participant CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the
strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not
applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of CP1 to deliver 6000 USD to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable.
[00197]     Bundle 2 includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to
CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 3000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is
TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00198]     Bundle 3 includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver 2000 $XYZ shares to
CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 12000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is
TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00199]     Bundle 4 includes a first obligation of CP1 to deliver 2000 $XYZ shares to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
                                              36

second obligation of TP1 to deliver 11000 USD to CPI1, where the current authorizer is
CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00200]     Bundle 5 includes a first obligation of CP1 to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of TP1 to deliver 5500 USD to CP1, where the current authorizer is
CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00201]     Bundle 6, which is the net bundle, includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver
500 $XYZ shares to CP1, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the next authorizer is
settlement participant SP1 on behalf of CP1. The bundle includes a second obligation
of CP1 to deliver 4500 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is CP1 and the next
authorizer is SP1 on behalf of TP1.
[00202]     Turning to FIG. 32, an advanced net action with bilateral and same name,
but across dates attributes is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3200. Here,
a transaction includes six bundles, Bundle 1 through Bundle 6.
[00203]     The advanced net action represents choosing a subset of obligation bundles,
destroying them, and creating a new net obligation bundle to be settled.            Here, a
participant has selected a basket of open obligations across trade dates, and the
clearing participant (CP1) has agreed to net, so the selected obligations are being
submitted for settlement. Only a settlement participant (SP) can move fungible assets
and effectuate a settlement, so choosing the SP as the new authorizer gives the SP
control of the obligation, which it can destroy in exchange for a settlement.
[00204]     Bundle 1 includes a first obligation of trading participant TP1 to deliver 1000
$XYZ shares to clearing participant CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the
strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not
applicable. The bundle includes a second obligation of CP1 to deliver 6000 USD to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable.
                                              37

[00205]     Bundle 2 includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to
CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 3000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is
TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00206]     Bundle 3 includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver 2000 $XYZ shares to
CP1, where the current authorizer is CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 12000 USD to TP1, where the current authorizer is
TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00207]     Bundle 4 includes a first obligation of CP1 to deliver 2000 $XYZ shares to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of TP1 to deliver 11000 USD to CP1, where the current authorizer is
CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00208]     Bundle 5 includes a first obligation of CP1 to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to
TP1, where the current authorizer is TP1, and the strike-through indicates that the
obligation is destroyed so the next authorizer is not applicable. The bundle includes a
second obligation of TP1 to deliver 5500 USD to CP1, where the current authorizer is
CP1, and the strike-through indicates that the obligation is destroyed so the next
authorizer is not applicable.
[00209]     Bundle 6, which is the net bundle, includes a first obligation of TP1 to deliver
500 $XYZ shares to CP1 at time NOW, where the current authorizer is TP1 and the
next authorizer is settlement participant SP1 on behalf of CP1. The bundle includes a
second obligation of CP1 to deliver 4500 USD to TP1 at time NOW, where the current
authorizer is CP1 and the next authorizer is SP1 on behalf of TP1.
[00210]     In the figures that follow, locked inventory commitments and optimization is
described. Three transactions are provided with the full intermediary chain created on
                                             38

the back of an exchange matched transaction.          For ease of description, only three
transactions are listed and it is assumed that they are in the same stock name, same
currency, and on the same day.           Also, there are six unique customers on the
transactions and the participant intermediaries' customers are all going the same
direction on a transaction. Here, the locked inventory is localized as the only thing that
could allow a reduction in risk in the scenario presented. Furthermore, these examples
represent the direct locking of inventory specifically against the obligation presented
next to it.
[00211]      In alternate embodiments, should there be two-directional flows for each
participant as well as obligations across trade dates and asset classes, the optimization
would further net obligations against offsetting obligations. For example, obligations to
buy $XYZ created on date t should be available to net against obligations to sell $XYZ
on date t+1 and would present the same optimization opportunity to the system as the
locked inventory.
[00212]      Turning now to FIG. 33, Step 1 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3300. Step 1 may assess
all open obligations.
[00213]      Here, each obligation pair is modelled as a transaction, with inventory
tracking for each obligation side (or leg) of each transaction. A batch optimization cutoff
line is indicated below the three considered transactions.
[00214]      A first transaction TX1 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust1 to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust2. TX1 further includes a
second obligation of Cust2 to deliver 6000 USD to Cust1.
[00215]      A second transaction TX2 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust3 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust4. TX2 further includes a
second obligation of Cust4 to deliver 3000 USD to Cust3.
[00216]      A third transaction TX3 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust5 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust6. TX3 further includes a
second obligation of Cust6 to deliver 3500 USD to Cust5.
[00217]      As shown in FIG. 34, Step 2 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3400. Step 2 may assess
                                              39

a first wave of commitments.        The description for Step 1, as above, is similarly
applicable here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00218]     For Step 2, SPireceives or holds committed inventory of 500 $XYZ shares
on behalf of customer Cust1 towards transaction TX1, which is only part of Custl's
1000 $XYZ share obligation in TX1, and 500 $XYZ shares on behalf of customer Cust3
for transaction TX2. SP2receives or holds committed inventory of 6000 USD on behalf
of customer Cust2 for transaction TX1.
[00219]     Turning to FIG. 35, Step 3 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3500. Step 3 may assess
a first optimization. The description for Steps 1 and 2, as above, is similarly applicable
here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00220]     Here, the 500 $XYZ shares committed by Cust1 are combined with the 500
$XYZ shares committed by Cust3 to fulfill the 1000 $XYZ shares due to Cust2, who has
committed full payment of 6000 USD. Thus, the obligations with respect to Cust2 and
Cust3 may be fully settled, and the obligation with respect to Cust1 may be partially
settled.
[00221]     Turning now to FIG. 36, Step 4 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3600. Step 4 may assess
all open obligations.    The description for Steps 1, 2, and 3, as above, is similarly
applicable here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00222]     Here, the obligations that remain open include Cust1 to deliver 500 $XYZ
shares and receive 3000 USD per TX1, Cust4 to deliver 3000 USD and receive 500
$XYZ shares per TX2, and all original obligations of Cust5 and Cust6 per TX3.
[00223]     As shown in FIG. 37, Step 5 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3700. Step 5 may assess
a second wave of commitments. The description for Steps 1 through 4, as above, is
similarly applicable here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00224]     Here, SP1 (receives?) holds committed inventory of 500 $XYZ additional
shares on behalf of customer Cust1 towards transaction TX1, which is the remaining
part of Custl's 1000 $XYZ share obligation in TX1.     SP2 (receives?) holds committed
                                            40

inventory of 3500 USD on behalf of customer Cust6 for transaction TX3, which is the
entire obligation of Cust6 per TX3.
[00225]     Turning to FIG. 38, Step 6 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3800. Step 6 may assess
a second optimization. The description for Steps 1 through 5, as above, is similarly
applicable here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00226]     Here, the 500 $XYZ shares most recently committed by Cust1 for TX1 are
partially matched with the 3500 USD committed by Cust6 for TX3, such that the
obligations with each may be settled. That is, Cust6 receives 500 $XYZ shares and
Cust1 receives the final 3000 USD. The remaining 500 USD is retained by SP1 for
optimizing the remaining obligations of Cust4 and Cust5.
[00227]     Turning now to FIG. 39, Step 7 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 3900. Step 7 may assess
both open obligations (as in Step 4) and leftover commitments.       The description for
Steps 1 through 6, as above, is similarly applicable here, and duplicate description may
be omitted.
[00228]     Here, the open obligations include Cust5's side of TX3 and Cust4's side of
TX2. The leftover commitments include the 500 USD leftover from Cust6's side of TX3
as held by SP1. The balance of inventory resides with the CCP, who is a customer of
SP1 in this example.
[00229]     As shown in FIG. 40, Step 8 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 4000. Step 8 may assess
a final wave of commitments.      The description for Steps 1 through 7, as above, is
similarly applicable here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00230]     Here, Cust5 commits 500 $XYZ shares held by SP1 for TX3, and Cust4
commits 3000 USD held by SP2 for TX2. SP1 still holds the leftover commitment of 500
USD from Cust6's side of TX3.
[00231]     Turning to FIG. 41, Step 9 of a batched settlement for Locked Inventory
Optimization is indicated generally by the reference numeral 4100. Step 9 may assess
a final optimization.   The description for Steps 1 through 8, as above, is similarly
applicable here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
                                            41

[00232]     Here, the 500 $XYZ shares committed by Cust5 for TX3 are partially
matched with the 3000 USD committed by Cust4 for TX2, with the 500 USD balance
due to Cust5 coming from the leftover commitment held by SP1 such that the
obligations with each may be settled. That is, Cust4 receives 500 $XYZ shares and
Cust5 receives 3500 USD.
[00233]     In the figures that follow, examples are described for generically committing
inventory against all open obligations.      In these examples, the inventory has been
explicitly committed against the obligation created in the transaction, but the inventory
has not been locked as in previous examples.
[00234]     Turning now to FIG. 42, Step 1 of a batched settlement for a generic commit
is indicated generally by the reference numeral 4200.        Step 1 may assess all open
obligations.
[00235]     Here, each obligation pair is modelled as a transaction, with generic commit
tracking for each leg of each obligor's obligations in the top two rows.           A batch
optimization cutoff line is indicated below the three considered transactions.
[00236]     A first transaction TX1 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust1 to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust2. TX1 further includes a
second obligation of Cust2 to deliver 6000 USD to Cust1.
[00237]     A second transaction TX2 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust3 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust4. TX2 further includes a
second obligation of Cust4 to deliver 3000 USD to Cust3.
[00238]     A third transaction TX3 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust5 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust6. TX3 further includes a
second obligation of Cust6 to deliver 3500 USD to Cust5.
[00239]     As shown in FIG. 43, Step 2 of a batched settlement for a generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 4300. Step 2 may assess a first wave of
commitments. The description for Step 1, as above, is similarly applicable here, and
duplicate description may be omitted.
[00240]     In Step 2, Custl has committed 1000 $XYZ shares, which is only part of
Custl's 2000 $XYZ share obligation for all three transactions. Cust4 has committed
                                              42

3000 USD, which fulfills Cust4's obligation under TX2. CP2 also holds committed funds
of 3000 USD.
[00241]     Turning to FIG. 44, Step 3 of a batched settlement for generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 4400.          Step 3 may assess a first
optimization. The description for Steps 1 and 2, as above, is similarly applicable here,
and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00242]     Here, 500 of the 1000 $XYZ shares committed by Cust1 are held by CP2,
and the other 500 of these shares are transferred to Cust4 to fulfill TX2. The 3000 USD
committed by Cust4 is transferred to Cust1, as is the 3000 USD held by CP2.
[00243]     Turning now to FIG. 45, Step 4 of a batched settlement for generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 4500.         Step 4 may assess all open
obligations. The description for Steps 1, 2, and 3, as above, is similarly applicable here,
and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00244]     Here, the obligations that remain open include Cust1 to deliver 500 $XYZ
shares to Cust2 and receive 3000 USD from Cust2 per TX1, CP2 to deliver 500 $XYZ
shares to Cust2 and receive 3000 USD from Cust2 per TX1, and Cust1 to deliver 500
$XYZ shares to Cust6 and receive 3500 USD from Cust6 per TX3.
[00245]     As shown in FIG. 46, Step 5 of a batched settlement for generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 4600. Step 5 may assess a second wave
of commitments. The description for Steps 1 through 4, as above, is similarly applicable
here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00246]     In Step 5, Custl has committed an additional 1000 $XYZ shares, which is
the balance of Custl's 2000 $XYZ share obligation to fulfill all three transactions (i.e.,
TX1, TX2, and TX3). Cust2 has committed 3000 USD, which fulfills Cust2's obligation
under TX1.    Cust6 has committed funds of 3500 USD, which fulfills Cust6's obligation
under TX3.
[00247]     Turning to FIG. 47, Step 6 of a batched settlement for generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 4700.        Step 6 may assess a second
optimization and settlement.     The description for Steps 1 through 5, as above, is
similarly applicable here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
                                            43

[00248]     Here, on the shares leg, 500 of the 1000 $XYZ shares are transferred from
Cust1 to Cust2, and the other 500 of the 1000 $XYZ shares are transferred from Cust1
to Cust6. On the cash leg, 3500 USD is transferred from Cust6 to Cust1, and 3000
USD is transferred from Cust2 to Cust1.
[00249]    Turning now to FIG. 48, Step 7 of a batched settlement for generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 4800. Step 7 may assess remaining open
obligations. The description for Steps 1 through 6, as above, is similarly applicable
here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
[00250]     Here, the only obligations that remain open are for CP2 to deliver 500 $XYZ
shares to Cust2, and for Cust2 to deliver 3000 USD to CP2. This is to fulfill TX1.
[00251]    As shown in FIG. 49, Step 8 of a batched settlement for generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 4900.           Step 8 may assess a final
commitment. The description for Steps 1 through 7, as above, is similarly applicable
here, and duplicate description may be omitted.
        Here, CP2 commits 500 $XYZ shares, and Cust2 commits 3000 USD. These
commitments constitute the balance of assets needed to complete transaction TX1.
[00252]    Turning to FIG. 50, Step 9 of a batched settlement for generic commit is
indicated generally by the reference numeral 5000. Step 9 may assess final settlement.
The description for Steps 1 through 8, as above, is similarly applicable here, and
duplicate description may be omitted.
[00253]     Final settlement is accomplished when CP2 transfers the committed 500
$XYZ shares to Cust2, and Cust2 transfers the committed 3000 USD to CP2.             This
closes out the last remaining transaction, TX1.
[00254]    Turning now to FIG. 51, Step 1 of a cross-day netting transaction is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 5100. Step 1 may assess all open obligations.
[00255]     Here, each obligation pair is modelled as a transaction, with generic commit
tracking for each leg of each obligor's obligations in the top two rows.          A batch
optimization cutoff line is indicated below the three considered transactions.
[00256]    A first transaction TX1 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust1 to deliver 1000 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust2. TX1 further includes a
second obligation of Cust2 to deliver 6000 USD to Cust1.
                                              44

[00257]      A second transaction TX2 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust3 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust4. TX2 further includes a
second obligation of Cust4 to deliver 3000 USD to Cust3.
[00258]      A third transaction TX3 covers a first obligation of trading participant TP1's
customer Cust5 to deliver 500 $XYZ shares to TP2's Cust6. TX3 further includes a
second obligation of Cust6 to deliver 3500 USD to Cust5.
[00259]      Batch settlements and concrete settlement times have previously prevented
most markets from benefiting from the efficiencies found in cross-day netting and
compression. If a participant buys a stock on date t and sells that stock on date t+1,
current market practice (depending on market) is for the trades to settle on t+3 and t+4,
respectively. Clearly, this is unnecessary if participants hold a ledger of all live and
unsatisfied obligations at all times.
[00260]      The combination of inventory commitments and cross-day netting and
compression may allow for tremendous reductions in risk and capital requirements for
all participants. Each obligation may continue to carry a maximum settlement time, but
should be allowed to be netted across dates.
[00261]      As shown in FIG. 52, Step 2 of a cross-day netting transaction is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 5200.          Step 2 may assess commitments.         The
description for Step 1, as above, is similarly applicable here, and duplicate description
may be omitted. As shown, there are no commitments or inventory so far.
[00262]      Turning to FIG. 53, Step 3 of a cross-day netting transaction is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 5300.            Step 3 may assess optimization and
settlement. Here, CP1 nets out 500 $XYZ and 3000 USD between days t and t+1. CCP
holds the extra 500 USD (3500-3000=500). The transfer obligations of TP1 with Cust3
and TP1 with Cust5 have yet to be satisfied.
[00263]      Turning now to FIG. 54, Step 4 of a cross-day netting transaction is indicated
generally by the reference numeral 5400. Step 4 may assess open obligations. Here,
all obligations of CP1 have been fulfilled for transactions TX2 and TX3.
[00264]      As shown in FIGs. 55-57, a unified ledger of obligations is indicated generally
by the reference numerals 5500 through 5700. This is possible because, in accordance
with the present inventive concept, an obligation is truly an obligation. Thus, if a market
                                              45

participant creates obligations via normal trading on an exchange, bilateral transactions,
OTC transactions, and/or repo transactions, there is no reason that these obligations
cannot be fungible against each other. This section demonstrates how a basket of
obligations can be optimized against each other independent of the historic reasons for
their creation.
[00265]     While the inventive concept has been described by way of example with
respect to non-limiting exemplary embodiments; other alternatives, modifications, and
variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the pertinent art. Accordingly, the
scope of the appended claims is intended to include all such alternatives, modifications
and variations on the exemplary embodiments set forth herein, as well as equivalents
thereof that may fall within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.
                                             46

CLAIMS
         What is claimed is:
         1.     A method for optimizing a multi-party transaction involving digital assets
wherein each party is associated with a signing server and one or more cryptographic
accounts comprising:
                creating a plurality of obligation bundles by matching pairs of obligations
from a plurality of digital asset obligations and asset obligations wherein a digital asset
obligation represents a transfer of a digital asset and an asset obligation represents a
transfer of an asset,
                wherein one pair of obligations include:
                        at least a first digital asset obligation representing a transfer of a
first digital asset from a first designated cryptographic account of a first signing server to
a second designated cryptographic account of a second signing server; and
                        at least a first asset obligation representing a transfer of a first
asset from a first account of the second signing server to a second account of the first
signing server; and
                wherein another pair of obligations include:
                        at least a second digital asset obligation representing a transfer of a
second digital asset from a second designated cryptographic account of the second
signing server to a first designated cryptographic account of a third signing server; and
                        at least a second asset obligation representing a transfer of a
second asset from a second account of the third signing server to a first account of the
second signing server;
                authorizing the first digital asset obligation by the first signing server;
                authorizing the second digital asset obligations by the second signing
server;
                 locking the first digital asset and the second digital asset to enforce
commitment to the authorized first digital asset obligation and the authorized second
digital asset obligation;
                                                   47

               creating a new net obligation bundle from the obligation bundles to
optimize for a reduction of overall obligations where intermediate obligations are
obviated whereby digital asset obligations are offset against asset obligations including
representing a transfer of a digital asset from the first signing server to the third signing
server and a representing a transfer of an asset from the third signing server to the first
signing server;
               executing the multi-party transaction including the new net obligation
bundle by recording the multiparty transaction of the digital assets on a mutual append
only transactional log.
        2.     The method of claim 1, further comprising communicating statuses of the
obligations among a plurality of parties.
        3.     The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the digital assets include a tokenized
non-digital asset.
        4.     The method of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the mutual append-only
transactional log is a blockchain ledger.
        5.     The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising:
               transferring, by a cryptographic decoder, the first digital asset from an
open sub-account to a committed sub-account of the first designated cryptographic
account of the first signing server,
               wherein executing the multi-party transaction further includes transferring,
by a cryptographic encoder, the first digital asset from the committed sub-account of the
first designated cryptographic account of the first signing server to an open sub-account
of the second account of the third signing server.
        6.     The method of any of the preceding claims, further comprising executing a
commit action with respect to one or more of the plurality of obligation bundles.
                                              48

         7.     The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein a designated
cryptographic account corresponds to at least one of a Holder Identification Number
(HIN) or a Security Reference Number (SRN).
         8.     The method of any of the preceding claims wherein additional pairs of
obligations are matched into obligation bundles and wherein additional net obligation
bundles are created from the additional pairs of obligations, further comprising batching
execution of the additional net obligation bundles using the locked digital assets while
optimizing for a reduction of number of obligations.
         9.     Software, being machine readable instructions, that when performed by a
computer system causes the computer system to perform the method of any one of the
preceding claims.
         10.    A device for optimizing a multi-party transaction involving digital assets
wherein each party is associated with a signing server and one or more cryptographic
accounts wherein the device performs the method of any one of the claims 1 to 8.
         11.    A system for optimizing a multi-party transaction involving digital assets
wherein each party is associated with a signing server and one or more cryptographic
accounts comprising:
                a comparator to create a plurality of obligation bundles by matching pairs
of obligations from a plurality of digital asset obligations and asset obligations wherein a
digital asset obligation represents a transfer of a digital asset and an asset obligation
represents a transfer of an asset;
                a memory to store the obligation bundles wherein one pair of obligations
include:
                        at least a first digital asset obligation representing a transfer of a
first digital asset from a first designated cryptographic account of a first signing server to
a second designated cryptographic account of a second signing server; and
                                                   49

                        at least a first asset obligation representing a transfer of a first asset
from a first account of the second signing server to a second account of the first signing
server; and
                wherein another pair of obligations include:
                        at least a second digital asset obligation representing a transfer of a
second digital asset from a second designated cryptographic account of the second
signing server to a first designated cryptographic account of a third signing server; and
                        at least a second asset obligation representing a transfer of a
second asset from a second account of the third signing server to a first account of the
second signing server;
                the first signing server to authorize the first digital asset obligation;
                the second signing server to authorize the second digital asset obligation;
                a processor to:
                        lock the first digital asset and the second digital asset to enforce
commitment to the authorized first digital asset obligation and the authorized second
digital asset obligation;
                        create a new net obligation bundle from the obligation bundles to
optimize for a reduction of overall obligations where intermediate obligations are
obviated whereby digital asset obligations are offset against asset obligations including
representing a transfer of a digital asset from the first signing server to the third signing
server and a representing a transfer of an asset from the third signing server to the first
signing server; and
                        execute the multi-party transaction including the new net obligation
bundle by recording the multiparty transaction of the digital assets on a mutual append
only transactional log.
        12.     The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to:
                transfer, by a cryptographic decoder, the first digital asset from an open
sub-account to a committed sub-account of the first designated cryptographic account
of the first signing server,
                                                  50

               wherein executing the multi-party transaction further includes transferring,
by a cryptographic encoder, the first digital asset from the committed sub-account of the
first designated cryptographic account of the first signing server to an open sub-account
of the second account of the third signing server.
                                              51

                                                              <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                           <U+2605><U+2724><U+271C>
                                <U+2605><U+2729><U+271C>                                                          <U+2727><U+2729>
                                            <U+2718><U+2717><U+271A>                                <U+271B><U+2717><U+271A>
                                                  <U+2605><U+2725><U+271C>                    <U+2727><U+2725><U+271C>
                                      <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>               <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>                      <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>
                                      <U+2723><U+2725><U+271C>                          <U+2722><U+2725><U+271C>          <U+271C><U+2725><U+271C>
                    <U+2725><U+2729><U+271C>
                           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>
                                                                                             <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
                          <U+2725><U+2725><U+271C>                                                          <U+2726><U+2725><U+271C>
                                                              <U+2713><U+2712>
                                                          <U+2715><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                                   <U+2724><U+2723><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>               <removed-apn>

                                                                                             <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                        <U+2706>   <U+271E>    <U+2706>       <U+271E>    <U+2706>    <U+271E>       <U+2706>   <U+271E>   <U+2706>     <U+271E>       <U+271D>       <U+2706>   <U+271E>      <U+2706>    <U+271E>        <U+271D>   <U+2706>   <U+271E>       <U+2706>   <U+271E>     <U+2706>   <U+271E>   <U+271D>
                            <U+260E>        <U+2702>        <U+2704>        <U+2701>                     <U+260E>       <U+2702>                        <U+260E>       <U+2702>       <U+2701>                 <U+2704>
                                                               <U+2605><U+2726><U+2723>                               <U+2725><U+2726><U+2723>                                      <U+2723><U+2726><U+2723>
                                <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723>                                    <U+2725><U+2723><U+2723>                                   <U+2723><U+2723><U+2723>                           <U+2722><U+2723><U+2723>
                                             <U+2605><U+271C><U+2723>                                 <U+2725><U+271C><U+2723>                                  <U+2723><U+271C><U+2723>                           <U+2722><U+271C>
                                                                                                        <U+2722><U+2722><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                    <removed-apn>

                                                                          <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                        <U+2704><U+270C><U+2711><U+270D><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2704><U+270C><U+271F><U+270C><U+2712>
                                           <U+2702>      <U+2701>                   <U+2702>       <U+2701>           <U+2702>        <U+2701>         <U+2715><U+2714><U+2716>      <U+2714><U+2713><U+2713>           <U+2715><U+2714>
          <U+261E><U+261B><U+270E><U+271A>          <U+261E><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2704><U+270C><U+2711><U+270D><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>
                                              <U+261E><U+261B><U+2712><U+2721>                   <U+261E><U+261B><U+2712><U+2721> <U+2704><U+270D><U+261E><U+271F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271A>         <U+261E><U+261B><U+2712><U+2721> <U+260E><U+271D><U+270C><U+2704><U+2706><U+2713>              <U+261E><U+261B><U+2712><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2702><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271F><U+2706><U+2704><U+2717>
                                         <U+2719><U+270C><U+2704><U+270D><U+261E><U+271F><U+270D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2718><U+271A><U+2717>                                                              <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702><U+271E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2717>
                 <U+2727> <U+2726><U+2726>             <U+2725><U+2726><U+2726>
                                                                <U+2723><U+2726><U+2726>                                <U+271C><U+2726><U+2726>                              <U+2722>
                                                      <U+2726><U+2726><U+2726>
   <U+2727> <U+2723><U+2726>           <U+2725><U+2723><U+2726>
                                        <U+2726><U+2723><U+2726>              <U+2723><U+2723><U+2726>                          <U+2722><U+2723><U+2726>
            <U+2727><U+271C><U+2726>               <U+2725><U+271C><U+2726>
                                                <U+2726><U+271C><U+2726>            <U+2723><U+271C><U+2726>                                  <U+2722><U+271C><U+2726>
                                                                                    <U+2722><U+2722><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                      <removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                     <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                            <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                                 <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2704><U+2737>                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2701><U+2737>
                                                                 <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                          <U+2701>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>          <U+2701> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2702>
                                          <U+2702>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>          <U+2702> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2701>         <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                              <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>           <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>          <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                             <U+2722><U+2722><U+2727>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                           <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                           <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                                           <U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C> <U+2701>
                                                                            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                         <U+2718><U+2714><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>          <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719>              <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2721><U+2720><U+2720><U+271F>   <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>    <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>
                          <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>     <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                <U+271F><U+2706>            <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+2722><U+2722><U+2605>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                        <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                     <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                           <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                 <U+2724><U+2726><U+2729>                               <U+2723><U+2726><U+2729>                    <U+2722><U+2726><U+2729>
                        <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                     <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                           <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2723><U+2729>                     <U+2722><U+2723><U+2729>
          <U+2724><U+2723><U+2729>
                                    <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>        <U+270E><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+2736>       <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>               <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>               <U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+260E><U+2701>
                         <U+272D><U+270E><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+2736>                                  <U+2720><U+271F><U+2706> <U+260E><U+272D><U+2721><U+270E><U+2704>                <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271D><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704>             <U+272D><U+270E><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+2701>
                                    <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>                     <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>               <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>
                                                                                           <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271D><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2719> <U+270E><U+2704> <U+2723><U+271C><U+2729>                 <U+2722><U+271C><U+2729>
                             <U+2605><U+271C><U+2729>                                     <U+2725><U+271C><U+2729>                    <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>
                                                                                           <U+271A> <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>
                                                                                     <U+2722><U+2722><U+2729>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                        <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                     <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                           <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                 <U+2724><U+2726><U+2724>                               <U+2723><U+2726><U+2724>                    <U+2722><U+2726><U+2724>
                        <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                     <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                           <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2723><U+2724>                     <U+2722><U+2723><U+2724>
          <U+2724><U+2723><U+2724>
                                    <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>        <U+270E><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+2736>                 <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>               <U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+260E><U+2701>
                         <U+272D><U+270E><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+2736>                                  <U+2720><U+271F><U+2706> <U+260E><U+272D><U+2721><U+270E><U+2704>                <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738>
                                                                                                     <U+272D><U+270E><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+2701>
                                    <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>
                             <U+2605><U+271C><U+2724>                                     <U+2725><U+271C><U+2724>                                   <U+2722><U+271C><U+2724>
                                                                                     <U+2722><U+2722><U+2724>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                        <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                     <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                           <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                 <U+2724><U+2726><U+2701>                               <U+2723><U+2726><U+2701>                    <U+2722><U+2726><U+2701>
                        <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                     <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                           <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                 <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                                                  <U+2723><U+2723><U+2701>                     <U+2722><U+2723><U+2701>
          <U+2724><U+2723><U+2701>
                                    <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>        <U+270E><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+2736>                 <U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+260E><U+2701>
                         <U+272D><U+270E><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+2736>                                  <U+2720><U+271F><U+2706> <U+260E><U+272D><U+2721><U+270E><U+2704>
                                    <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>
                             <U+2605><U+271C><U+2701>                                     <U+2725><U+271C><U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                         <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                        <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                   <U+2704><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                        <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                  <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                 <U+2724><U+2726><U+2722><U+271C>                           <U+2723><U+2726><U+2722><U+271C>                      <U+2722><U+2726><U+2722><U+271C>
                        <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>                  <U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2738><U+2713>
          <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>                        <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C>                  <U+261E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2704>
                                               <U+2723><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C>                     <U+2722><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C>
           <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C>
                         <U+272D><U+270E><U+2706><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+2736>    <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>
                                                                        <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271D><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704>          <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>               <U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+260E><U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+272D><U+270E><U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+2701>
                                    <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>                               <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>
                                                                        <U+272D><U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271D><U+271F><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2719> <U+270E><U+2704> <U+2723><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>                                             <U+2722><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>
                            <U+2605><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>
                                                                <U+2704> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>
                                                                <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2737><U+271D><U+2701><U+2738> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2737><U+2737><U+2717><U+2713>
                                                                                <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                            <U+2711><U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                         <U+271B><U+2711>   <U+261E><U+271F><U+270D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2702><U+270F><U+2706><U+2720><U+270E><U+270D> <U+271F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+271B><U+2706> <U+2720> <U+2704><U+270C><U+2711><U+270D><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270C><U+271F><U+2717>
                                                                              <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712><U+270E> <U+261B><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D> <U+271D><U+2713>
                                                                         <U+271B><U+2711>   <U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+271B><U+2706> <U+2720> <U+271F><U+271F><U+271F><U+2706> <U+2720><U+2720><U+2717>
                                                                              <U+2716><U+2713><U+2717><U+270E><U+2716> <U+2718><U+270D> <U+2716><U+271E><U+2712><U+271A> <U+271D><U+2713>
                                                                         <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+271E><U+271D><U+2718><U+2706>
                                                                              <U+2716><U+2716><U+271A><U+271A><U+2717> <U+271D><U+2713>
                                                                         <U+261E><U+2711>   <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>
                                                                         <U+261E><U+2711>   <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>
                                                                              <U+270E><U+2716><U+270E><U+2717><U+2716><U+2717><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2713>
                                                                         <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+261E> <U+2704><U+270C><U+2711><U+270D><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>
                              <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+261E><U+2717><U+2716>                                  <U+2718><U+2711>   <U+2718> <U+2704><U+270C><U+2711><U+270D><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>
                               <U+271B><U+2711>   <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>                                  <U+271B><U+2711>   <U+271B> <U+2704><U+270C><U+2711><U+270D><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>
                                    <U+271A><U+2716><U+261B><U+2712><U+270D><U+2717><U+2713><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2712><U+271A><U+270D><U+2717><U+2717><U+270D> <U+271D><U+2713>                     <U+270E><U+2716><U+2715><U+270D><U+2716><U+271A><U+2714><U+2719> <U+271D><U+2713>
                                                             <U+2715><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2714><U+2716>
                                                                  <U+2722><U+2722><U+271C><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                                 <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                 <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>            <U+2738> <U+2702><U+2702>              <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>         <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>             <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                 <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>
                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                 <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>            <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>              <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>               <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                           <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                                              <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                                        <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>               <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2734> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                        <U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2711>
                        <U+2702>   <U+2701>           <U+2702>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>       <U+2702> <U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2701>                                        <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>
                                        <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>               <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+271D>   <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                        <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>               <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                                              <U+2706>   <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                        <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E>
                                       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>               <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                                                                                                              <U+260E>   <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                        <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>               <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                                              <U+2704>   <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                        <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                            <U+2701>                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>        <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2701>                                        <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                        <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                             <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                      <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                        <U+2722><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                             <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                   <U+2706><U+270D> <U+270D>
                                                                                                    <U+2721><U+2721>    <U+2713>
                                                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                             <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>               <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                               <U+2737> <U+260E><U+2702>
                                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                                                             <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                          <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>    <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727>
                                                                                                                            <U+2704> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                                                       <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>         <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                            <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                           <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>              <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                      <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                    <U+2722><U+2722><U+2726><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                             <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                <U+2701><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                            <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                             <U+2737><U+2713><U+260E><U+2702>
                                                                            <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                            <U+2702> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>            <U+2702> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2704> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2702> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+260E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                            <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2701> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2704> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721>
                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>        <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+2718><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                         <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                   <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+2725><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                            <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                              <U+271E><U+2738>                            <U+271E><U+2738>
                                                                           <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                   <U+2713>                             <U+2713>
                                                              <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                          <U+2706><U+270D><U+271E><U+2738><U+270D><U+2737>
                                                                                                <U+2721><U+2721> <U+2713>
                                                                           <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                              <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                         <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>    <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727>    <U+272F><U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                                           <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>    <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                               <U+2704> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727>
                          <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>            <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                     <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                   <U+2722><U+2722><U+2727><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                              <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                             <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2702>                         <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                                             <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>                         <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>
                                                              <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                                             <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2702>
                                                                <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                    <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>          <U+2702><U+2729> <U+2605>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2702><U+2729> <U+2605>
                                                                                                              <U+270F> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2702><U+2729> <U+2605>
                                                                                                              <U+270C> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2702><U+2729> <U+2605>          <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                                                                                                         <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E>
                                     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                                                                                              <U+272C> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                              <U+2704> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                          <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                     <U+2722><U+2722><U+2605><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                           <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>                  <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                               <U+270D><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2702>                  <U+270D><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2702>
                                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                  <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                 <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2701>
                                                              <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>           <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725>       <U+2724><U+2716>    <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>   <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>
                                 <U+2702><U+261B><U+270D><U+2704> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>           <U+2702><U+261B><U+270D><U+2704> <U+272B><U+2706>               <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>        <U+271F><U+2706>              <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
                            <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>        <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>         <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719>      <U+2724><U+2716>    <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727>   <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>
                                  <U+2702><U+261B><U+270D><U+2704> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>           <U+2702><U+261B><U+270D><U+2704> <U+272B><U+2706>              <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>        <U+271F><U+2706>              <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
                                         <U+2605>    <U+271E>           <U+2605>        <U+271E>
                                     <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                    <U+271B><U+2717><U+271A>
                                                                                 <U+2722><U+2722><U+2729><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                               <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                              <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                          <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                  <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725>            <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727>     <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>            <U+2720><U+2714><U+2718><U+2701> <U+2727> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719>        <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727>
                           <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>                 <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>             <U+271F><U+2706>              <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E>
                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                      <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>      <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2718><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2714><U+2727>
                          <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>              <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                     <U+2722><U+2722><U+2724><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                                       <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                     <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>                                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>
                                                                      <U+2738><U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                     <U+2711><U+271E><U+2711>                                 <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>
                                                                                     <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                     <U+2716>   <U+2701>                               <U+2716>   <U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                <U+270D><U+261B>         <U+270E><U+2702>                       <U+270D><U+261B>        <U+270E><U+2702>
                                                                     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                 <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2701>                                <U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                         <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>      <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>                      <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725>           <U+2724><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>             <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>       <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                    <U+2720><U+2714><U+2718><U+2701> <U+2727> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B>   <U+2724><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>
                             <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>                       <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>           <U+271F><U+2706>                       <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                        <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>                <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>   <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                      <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                  <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                         <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>      <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                             <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>                <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>       <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                       <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                  <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>         <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                                   <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                             <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701><U+271C>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                                   <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                   <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                 <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>
                                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2701><U+2737>
                                                                   <U+2711><U+2711>
                                                                                                       <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>
                                                                                <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                   <U+2716>   <U+2701>                               <U+2716>   <U+2701>
                                                                                <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                   <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                    <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>     <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>       <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D>
                         <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                  <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>     <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>        <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>       <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                              <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>     <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                         <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                       <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                               <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                   <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                 <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>
                                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2701><U+2737>
                                                                   <U+2711><U+2711>
                                                                                                       <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>
                                                                                <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                   <U+2716>   <U+2701>                               <U+2716>   <U+2701>
                                                                                <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                   <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                    <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>     <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>       <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                                                   <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D>
                         <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                  <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>     <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>       <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                              <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>     <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                         <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                       <U+2722><U+2722><U+271C><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                                       <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                   <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>                               <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                                    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                 <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>                            <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>
                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2701><U+2737>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2711>                                 <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>                                 <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>
                                                                <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>                             <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                   <U+2716>   <U+2701>                               <U+2716>   <U+2701>                                 <U+2716>   <U+2701>
                                                   <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>                            <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                            <U+2702>                                                           <U+270D><U+261B>        <U+270E>   <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                              <U+270D><U+261B>        <U+270E>
                                                                <U+270D><U+261B>    <U+270E>
                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                               <U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C> <U+2701>                                                                       <U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C> <U+2701>
                                                   <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>                                                                      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                          <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>           <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>                 <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725>               <U+2724><U+2716>     <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>             <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>               <U+2720><U+2714><U+2718><U+2701> <U+2727> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B>       <U+2724><U+2716>     <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>
                              <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>        <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>                  <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>               <U+271F><U+2706>                           <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>         <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                 <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>                          <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>               <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>        <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                            <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>          <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>                          <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>    <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D>
                          <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>                 <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>        <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>            <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                            <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                 <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>         <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                             <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>            <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                            <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                 <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                 <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                             <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>           <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>                   <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                            <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>         <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>              <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                       <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                <U+2722><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                             <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                             <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>                            <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                          <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>                         <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>
                                             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2701><U+2737>
                                             <U+2711><U+2711>                              <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>                             <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>
                                                         <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>                         <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                             <U+2716><U+2701>                              <U+2716>   <U+2701>                              <U+2716>   <U+2701>
                                             <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>                        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>   <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>              <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>        <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>     <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>    <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>              <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                          <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2727>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>        <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>      <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261E><U+271F>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>         <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>        <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                 <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>      <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                 <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>              <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                       <U+2722><U+2722><U+2726><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                             <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>                            <U+2738> <U+2702><U+2702>                               <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                          <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>                         <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E>
                                             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2701><U+2737>
                                             <U+2711><U+2711>                              <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>                             <U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2701>
                                                         <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>                         <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                             <U+2716>   <U+2701>                           <U+2716>   <U+2701>                              <U+2716>   <U+2701>
                                             <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>                        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>   <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>              <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>         <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>        <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>     <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>   <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714>              <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                          <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>        <U+2714><U+2720><U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>      <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>         <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>        <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                 <U+2704><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2724><U+261E><U+271F> <U+2701> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>      <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                 <U+2704><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702>
                                       <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>    <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+2701><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2712><U+261B><U+2714>                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                             <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>              <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                       <U+2722><U+2722><U+2725><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                                    <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                             <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>            <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>                       <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2702>    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                             <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                       <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2738> <U+2702><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                     <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                                                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2704>  <U+2701>              <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B>                              <U+261E><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2706><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271D>
                                                <U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+270E> <U+2702> <U+2701>   <U+270C><U+270D><U+271D>
                                                                                 <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                                      <U+2729><U+2727>           <U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                            <U+272E><U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                       <U+2702>            <U+2702>                   <U+2701>                              <U+2702>
                                     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                        <U+2702>                              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2729><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>               <U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                    <U+2702>                   <U+2702>                              <U+2702>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2729><U+2711>
                                                    <U+2702>           <U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                        <U+2702>                              <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605>                  <U+271D>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>               <U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                                                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2729><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E>
                                                    <U+2702>                   <U+2702>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>                  <U+260E>   <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                  <U+2704>   <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                            <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                        <U+2701>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                          <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                     <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                         <U+2722><U+2722><U+2727><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                                 <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                             <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>            <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>                  <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2702>    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                             <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                  <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738> <U+2702><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>                <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                    <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                           <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                                                         <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C><U+270D><U+2704><U+2704><U+2701>                                                          <U+270D> <U+270D>        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                    <U+261E><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2721><U+270D><U+270D> <U+2713> <U+2706><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+270C> <U+271D>
                                                <U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2706><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271D>             <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B>
                                                                            <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>
                                     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>             <U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                       <U+2702>     <U+2702>                         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                      <U+2729><U+2727>
                                       <U+2702>           <U+2729><U+2711>
                                                    <U+2702>       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2701>                                   <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>                  <U+272E><U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2702>                                   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2729><U+2605>
                                                    <U+2702>           <U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2702>                                   <U+2702><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                   <U+2729><U+2711>
                                                    <U+2702>           <U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2702>                                   <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2702><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                                                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>                                                                                                              <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E>
                                                                                                                            <U+2706>
                                                   <U+2729><U+2605>
                                                    <U+2702>           <U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2702>                                   <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>
                                                                                                                                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                                                            <U+260E>
                                                 <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605>           <U+2729><U+2605><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                                                <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                   <U+2701>                                   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                            <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                          <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                     <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                        <U+2722><U+2722><U+2605><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                                                          <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2706><U+2706><U+270D>
                                                                                         <U+271E><U+260E><U+2738><U+2715><U+2737><U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D><U+2701><U+2716>
                                                                                                                 <U+2706><U+2706><U+270D>                                            <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                                                                                      <U+270D>                                                    <U+2718><U+261B>
      <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>                <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>           <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2702>          <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>               <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                                      <U+270D><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2702>
     <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>             <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>           <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>            <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>              <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                      <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C> <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>                                                            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                        <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B>                              <U+261E><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+2706><U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271D>                                             <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                       <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                                                                                                  <U+271D><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E>
                <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>      <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>               <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725>               <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2701><U+271F>              <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271F>
                 <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>       <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>             <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719>              <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>            <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>               <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>              <U+271F><U+2706>                      <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
               <U+2711><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>        <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>     <U+2701><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                  <U+2702>                                      <U+2718><U+2714><U+2702><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2701><U+271F>                                <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>
                                                                                                                       <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                 <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>    <U+2701><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                  <U+2702>                                      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>      <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>    <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>         <U+2718><U+2714><U+2702><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2701><U+271F>
                                                                                                                       <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>   <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>            <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                   <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                                             <U+2722><U+2722><U+2729><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                                                                 <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2706><U+2706><U+270D>
                                                                                            <U+271E><U+260E><U+2738><U+2715><U+2737><U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D><U+2701><U+2716>
                                                                                                                        <U+2706><U+2706><U+270D>                                             <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                                                                                         <U+270D>                                                         <U+2718><U+261B>
      <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>                <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>           <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2702>           <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>              <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                                        <U+270D><U+261B>     <U+270E><U+2702>
     <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>             <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>           <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>             <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                          <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C> <U+2701>
                                                       <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>                                                                  <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                         <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B>                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                             <U+261E><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271D>                                                   <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                        <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                                                                                                         <U+271D><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E>
               <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>       <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                    <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725>             <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2701><U+271F>                  <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271F>
                <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>        <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                   <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2702><U+2702>              <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>                <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>        <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                  <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719>            <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>                <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
               <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>                  <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>              <U+271F><U+2706>                          <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
                                                                                                                                         <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>
               <U+2711><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2701><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                   <U+2702>                                        <U+2718><U+2714><U+2702><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2701><U+271F>
                                                                                                                              <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                 <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>    <U+2701><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                   <U+2702>                                        <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>    <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                                          <U+2702>                 <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>     <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>            <U+2718><U+2714><U+2702><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2701><U+271F>                       <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>   <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>            <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                      <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2722><U+2722><U+2724><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                                                                <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2706><U+2706><U+270D>
                                                                                           <U+271E><U+260E><U+2738><U+2715><U+2737><U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D><U+2701><U+2716>
                                                                                                                       <U+2706><U+2706><U+270D>                                             <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                                                                                        <U+270D>                                                         <U+2718><U+261B>
      <U+2706><U+2738><U+2737>                <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2737>           <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2702>           <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                                        <U+270D><U+261B>     <U+270E><U+2702>
     <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>             <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>           <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>              <U+2738><U+2702><U+2702>               <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                          <U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E><U+270D> <U+270C> <U+2701>
                                                       <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>                                                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                           <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B>                                             <U+2706>
                                                                                            <U+261E><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2713> <U+270E><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271D>                                                   <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2720><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                        <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E>                                                                                                        <U+271D><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+271E><U+271E>
               <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>       <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                     <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725>           <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2701><U+271F>                  <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2701><U+271F>
                <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>        <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>                   <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719>          <U+2724><U+2716>   <U+2712><U+2605> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>                <U+261E><U+2714><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
               <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>    <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>                   <U+261B><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>            <U+271F><U+2706>                          <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
               <U+2711><U+2727><U+2726><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>      <U+2701><U+2724> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                   <U+2702>                                       <U+2718><U+2714><U+2702><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2701><U+271F>                                  <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>
                 <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>    <U+2701><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                   <U+2702>                                       <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>                        <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                 <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>       <U+2701><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>
                                                       <U+2702>                <U+2702>                  <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2701><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>     <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>           <U+2718><U+2714><U+2702><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2701><U+271F>
                                                                                                                             <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>     <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>   <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2701><U+271F> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712> <U+2724><U+2720><U+2721><U+2605>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>   <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>            <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>                     <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701><U+2723>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                                    <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                                                                                                           <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735>
                 <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+2734> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731>
                 <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                    <U+271D> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+2706> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                               <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                    <U+260E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2704> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                    <U+2704> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                    <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>                                <U+271D><U+271F>
                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>            <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
      <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>     <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>           <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                             <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                         <removed-apn>

                                                                                    <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                                                                                                             <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> 
      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>                                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2734> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731>
      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+271D> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>                                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+2706> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                 <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                      <U+260E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2704> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                      <U+2704> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                            <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B> 
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                      <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>                                <U+271D><U+271F><U+271E>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
     <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>      <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>             <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>           <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                               <U+2722><U+2722><U+271C><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                          <removed-apn>

                                                                                        <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                                                        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                   <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> 
      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                        <U+2734> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
                                                                                                                        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731>
      <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+271E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2727>              <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>     <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2718><U+261B>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2702><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                        <U+271D> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2702><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2702><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                        <U+2706> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2702><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                                   <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2721><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2706>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>         <U+2719><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                        <U+260E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+2719><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2704> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                        <U+2704> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>           <U+2719><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+2702> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+270C><U+261E><U+271E><U+261B> 
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>          <U+2719><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2727><U+2726> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2725> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>    <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>
                                                                                        <U+272E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+272D><U+261E><U+270D><U+272C>                                <U+271D><U+271F><U+271E>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>             <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605>          <U+2719><U+2701><U+2724> <U+2719><U+2729><U+2605> <U+2712><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B> <U+271A><U+271A><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2718><U+2714><U+2717><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2711>   <U+2719><U+2729><U+2711>
     <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272A>      <U+270E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+270E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E><U+270E><U+2720><U+2720><U+270D><U+270C>                <U+261E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>            <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704>
                                                                                                                 <U+2722><U+2722><U+2723><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                          <removed-apn>

                                                                  <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                               <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                    <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                   <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                               <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>      <U+260E>
                                    <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                    <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                               <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                    <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                   <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                        <U+2722><U+2722><U+2726><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                      <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                   <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                       <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                   <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>      <U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                        <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                   <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                    <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                            <U+2722><U+2722><U+2725><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                       <removed-apn>

                                                                       <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                           <U+2738>           <U+2738>    <U+2738>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2738>       <U+2738>      <U+2738>
                                                                                <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                          <U+2706> <U+2713>     <U+2706> <U+2713>      <U+2706> <U+2713>                        <U+271E> <U+2713>    <U+271E> <U+2713>    <U+271E> <U+2713>
                                           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                         <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>    <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                  <U+2706><U+271E>       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                           <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+271E> <U+2702>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>    <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                           <U+2738>           <U+2738>    <U+2738>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2738>       <U+2738>      <U+2738>
                                                                                 <U+260E>
                                          <U+2706> <U+2713>     <U+2706> <U+2713>      <U+2706> <U+2713>                        <U+271E> <U+2713>    <U+271E> <U+2713>    <U+271E> <U+2713>
                                           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                          <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>    <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                  <U+2706><U+271E>       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                           <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+271E> <U+2702>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>    <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                   <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                          <U+2706> <U+2713> <U+2738>            <U+2738>
                                          <U+2706> <U+2713>     <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>    <U+2738>
                                                           <U+2706> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2738>
                                                                                      <U+271E> <U+2713>     <U+2738>
                                                                                             <U+271E> <U+2713>     <U+2738>
                                                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>       <U+2702>        <U+2738><U+2737>
                                         <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>    <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                  <U+2706><U+271E>       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                           <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+271E> <U+2702>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>    <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                   <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                     <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                            <U+2722><U+2722><U+2727><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                         <removed-apn>

                                                                  <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                               <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                    <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                   <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                               <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                    <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                    <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                               <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                 <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                               <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                       <U+2722><U+2722><U+2605><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                      <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D> <U+260E>
                          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+2701><U+271D>      <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                         <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                         <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                      <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                     <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                            <U+2722><U+2722><U+2729><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                       <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D> <U+260E>
                          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+2701><U+271D>      <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                         <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                         <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                      <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                     <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                            <U+2722><U+2722><U+2724><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                    <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                 <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>                                        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>    <U+2701>                                    <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                 <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>    <U+271D>
                                                                 <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>      <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                      <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                 <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>    <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                  <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701><U+2726>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                      <removed-apn>

                                                                     <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D> <U+260E>
                          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>                                        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+2701>                                   <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+271D>      <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2725>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                       <removed-apn>

                                                                  <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D> <U+260E>
                          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>                                        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+2701>                                   <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>    <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+271D>      <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2722><U+2722><U+271C><U+2725>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                       <removed-apn>

                                                                           <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>
                                      <U+271E> <U+2702>
                                     <U+2702><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737>       <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>       <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>        <U+271E><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                                <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>      <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>
                                      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                      <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>       <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>        <U+271E><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                                <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                      <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                      <U+270D><U+270F> <U+2712>        <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>       <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>        <U+271E><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                                <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                                        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                         <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                          <U+2719>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F>       <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>        <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>       <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>            <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>               <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>           <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                           <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>              <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                       <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>         <U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                        <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                       <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                         <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                 <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>       <U+271D>                            <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>         <U+271D>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>      <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>     <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>      <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
                                                                                                    <U+2722><U+2722><U+2726><U+2725>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                           <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>              <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                       <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>         <U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                        <U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                        <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                       <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                         <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                 <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>       <U+271D>                            <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>         <U+271D>
                          <U+2719>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F>       <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>     <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>      <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
                                                                                                    <U+2722><U+2722><U+2725><U+2725>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                                                   <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                                                <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                          <U+2738>               <U+2738>                           <U+2738>            <U+271E><U+2738>             <U+2738>          <U+2738>          <U+2738>
                                                                                                            <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>       <U+2713>      <U+2706>        <U+2713>                   <U+2706>       <U+2713>           <U+2713>           <U+271E>   <U+2713>      <U+271E>   <U+2713>      <U+271E>   <U+2713>
                                       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>                           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E> <U+2702>        <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                             <U+271E>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                       <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                          <U+2738>               <U+2738>                           <U+2738>
                                                                              <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>       <U+2713>      <U+2706>        <U+2713>                   <U+2706>       <U+2713>
                                       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>                           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                          <U+2738>               <U+2738>                           <U+2738>            <U+271E><U+2738>             <U+2738>          <U+2738>          <U+2738>
                                                                                                             <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>       <U+2713>      <U+2706>        <U+2713>                   <U+2706>       <U+2713>           <U+2713>           <U+271E>   <U+2713>      <U+271E>   <U+2713>      <U+271E>   <U+2713>
                                       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>                           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                  <U+271E> <U+2702>        <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                             <U+271E>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                       <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>    <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                                 <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                          <U+2719>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F>       <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>                       <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>                 <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                                       <U+2722><U+2722><U+2727><U+2725>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                                               <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                                            <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                           <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>                    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                          <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                            <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                           <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>                    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>
                                          <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                            <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                           <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>                    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                          <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                            <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>   <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                             <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+2701><U+271D>                   <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>      <U+271D>
                          <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2719>        <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>          <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>                   <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>             <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>              <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>       <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                                <U+2722><U+2722><U+2605><U+2725>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                                            <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                           <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>                    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                           <U+270D><U+270F> <U+2712>
                                          <U+2702><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>            <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                            <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                           <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>                    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>
                                          <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                            <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>     <U+260E>
                                           <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>                    <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                          <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                   <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>     <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2738><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                            <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731> <U+2730> <U+272F> <U+272F>   <U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                             <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>     <U+2701><U+271D>                   <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>      <U+271D>
                          <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2719>        <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>          <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>                   <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>             <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>              <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>       <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                                <U+2722><U+2722><U+2729><U+2725>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                                     <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                              <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+260E>
                                          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>               <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>
                                         <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>      <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>              <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                              <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706>    <U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                          <U+2719>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F>           <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>         <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>            <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>             <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>       <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>     <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>   <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                <U+2722><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725>
  <removed-date>                       <removed-apn>

                                                                                    <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                             <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+260E>
                                      <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>             <U+2706><U+2738><U+2713>               <U+2706><U+2738> <U+2713>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F><U+2712><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>              <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                             <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                                <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>      <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2704><U+271E><U+2702><U+2701>    <U+2701>
                          <U+2719>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F>       <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>          <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>              <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>             <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>       <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>     <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>   <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                               <U+2722><U+2722><U+2701><U+2725>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                                        <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
   <U+2718><U+2718><U+270D><U+2716><U+2714><U+2719> <U+261B><U+270D><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+271E><U+2712><U+2715><U+2712><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>
                                                                 <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F><U+260E>
                                       <U+2738>
                                      <U+2706> <U+2713>           <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>                    <U+2738>
                                                                            <U+2706> <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                    <U+2706><U+271E>                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                            <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>
                                                                 <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+271D>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                      <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                              <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>            <U+271D>
                                                                                     <U+2704><U+271E><U+2702><U+2701>    <U+2701>
                          <U+2719>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F>       <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>        <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>                    <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>            <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>       <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>     <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>   <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                  <U+2722><U+2722><U+2722><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                                  <U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                       <U+2738>                 <U+2738>           <U+2738>               <U+271E><U+2738>                 <U+2738>             <U+2738>              <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                      <U+271E>    <U+2713>         <U+271E>       <U+2713>      <U+271E>    <U+2713>              <U+2713>           <U+2706>       <U+2713>    <U+2706>        <U+2713>      <U+2706>       <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>            <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2702>              <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                 <U+2706><U+271E>              <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
 <U+271B><U+261B><U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
 <U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                          <U+2738>               <U+2738>             <U+2738>             <U+271E><U+2738>             <U+2738>            <U+2738>               <U+2738>
                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>       <U+2713>      <U+2706>        <U+2713>     <U+2706>       <U+2713>           <U+2713>           <U+271E>    <U+2713>       <U+271E>    <U+2713>          <U+271E>    <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                      <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                      <U+2706>   <U+2738>   <U+2713>      <U+2706>    <U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+2706>   <U+2738>   <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>       <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>      <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>               <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>               <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>            <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                           <U+2722><U+2722><U+271C><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                           <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                      <U+271E><U+2738>          <U+271E><U+2738>         <U+271E><U+2738>            <U+271E><U+2738>             <U+2706><U+2738>        <U+2706><U+2738>         <U+2706><U+2738>
                                                                                    <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                           <U+2713>           <U+2713>          <U+2713>           <U+2713>                <U+2713>         <U+2713>           <U+2713>
                                     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                     <U+2701><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>          <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                               <U+2702><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>
 <U+271B><U+261B><U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
 <U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                          <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                     <U+2706><U+2738>           <U+2706><U+2738>         <U+2706><U+2738>             <U+271E><U+2738>            <U+271E><U+2738>        <U+271E><U+2738>          <U+271E><U+2738>
                                                                                     <U+260E>
                                           <U+2713>           <U+2713>          <U+2713>           <U+2713>                <U+2713>         <U+2713>           <U+2713>
                                     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                      <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>         <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>       <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>        <U+271D><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                                <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                                         <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                     <U+2706><U+2738>    <U+2713>      <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+2706><U+2738>   <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>    <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>      <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                      <U+270D><U+270F> <U+2712>        <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>       <U+2706><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737>      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>        <U+271E><U+271E><U+2738><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                                                                               <U+270D><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                                        <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                         <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>      <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>        <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>       <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>            <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>               <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>          <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>         <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                              <U+2722><U+2722><U+2723><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                                     <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                       <U+2738>                 <U+2738>           <U+2738>               <U+271E><U+2738>                 <U+2738>             <U+2738>              <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                      <U+271E>    <U+2713>         <U+271E>       <U+2713>      <U+271E>    <U+2713>              <U+2713>           <U+2706>       <U+2713>    <U+2706>        <U+2713>      <U+2706>       <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>            <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2702>              <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                 <U+2706><U+271E>              <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
 <U+271B><U+261B><U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
 <U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                          <U+2738>               <U+2738>             <U+2738>             <U+271E><U+2738>             <U+2738>            <U+2738>               <U+2738>
                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>       <U+2713>      <U+2706>        <U+2713>     <U+2706>       <U+2713>           <U+2713>           <U+271E>    <U+2713>       <U+271E>    <U+2713>          <U+271E>    <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                      <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                      <U+2706>   <U+2738>   <U+2713>      <U+2706>    <U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+2706>   <U+2738>   <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>       <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>      <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>               <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>               <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>            <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                           <U+2722><U+2722><U+2726><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                                     <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>
                                       <U+2738>                 <U+2738>                           <U+271E><U+2738>                 <U+2738>             <U+2738>              <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                      <U+271E>    <U+2713>         <U+271E>       <U+2713>                          <U+2713>           <U+2706>       <U+2713>    <U+2706>        <U+2713>      <U+2706>       <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                 <U+2706><U+271E>              <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
 <U+271B><U+261B><U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
 <U+260E> <U+270C><U+2702><U+2719> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2706><U+2719><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716>                                                                    <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>
                                          <U+2738>               <U+2738>             <U+2738>             <U+271E><U+2738>                          <U+2738>               <U+2738>
                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                      <U+2706>       <U+2713>      <U+2706>        <U+2713>     <U+2706>       <U+2713>           <U+2713>                        <U+271E>    <U+2713>          <U+271E>    <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                      <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>                      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                   <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>     <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                      <U+2706>   <U+2738>   <U+2713>      <U+2706>    <U+2738>   <U+2713>     <U+2706>   <U+2738>   <U+2713>         <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>           <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>       <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738>   <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                    <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>             <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                    <U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                                   <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>      <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>               <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>               <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>            <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                           <U+2722><U+2722><U+2725><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                         <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                 <U+271E> <U+2713> <U+2738>                                          <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                                 <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                <U+2706><U+271E>
                                                                      <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                       <U+2738>
                                      <U+2706> <U+2713>        <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                <U+271E> <U+2713>              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                <U+271E> <U+2713>
                                                                      <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>      <U+260E>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                      <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                 <U+2706><U+271E>                                             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                               <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                       <U+2738>
                                      <U+2706> <U+2713>        <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>     <U+2706> <U+2713> <U+2738>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2738>
                                                                                        <U+271E> <U+2713>      <U+2738>
                                                                                                <U+271E> <U+2713>              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                <U+271E> <U+2713>
                                      <U+2738><U+2737>
                                     <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                 <U+2706><U+271E>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                            <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>         <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                        <U+271E> <U+2702>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                               <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                       <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                        <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>      <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>       <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>       <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>              <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>             <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>         <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                          <U+2722><U+2722><U+2727><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                                                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                      <U+271E> <U+2713> <U+2738>                                          <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>
                                                                           <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                                      <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                     <U+2706><U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                            <U+2738>
                                           <U+2706> <U+2713>        <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                     <U+271E> <U+2713>              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                     <U+271E> <U+2713>
                                                                           <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>      <U+260E>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>      <U+271D>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                           <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                      <U+2706><U+271E>                                             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                    <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                           <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                           <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                            <U+2738>
                                           <U+2706> <U+2713>        <U+2706> <U+2713>  <U+2738>     <U+2706> <U+2713> <U+2738>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2738>
                                                                                             <U+271E> <U+2713>      <U+2738>
                                                                                                     <U+271E> <U+2713>              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                     <U+271E> <U+2713>
                                           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                          <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>       <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                      <U+2706><U+271E>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                 <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>         <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                             <U+271E> <U+2702>     <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>             <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                    <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                           <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                            <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                          <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>         <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>       <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>       <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>           <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>              <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>             <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>         <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                               <U+2722><U+2722><U+2605><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

                                                                                 <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C>
                                                       <U+271E>   <U+2738><U+2713>                                              <U+2706>    <U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                              <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D> <U+260E>
                                                       <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>                                                  <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                           <U+2706><U+271E>
                                                                              <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                           <U+2706>   <U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706>    <U+2738><U+2713>                                             <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                              <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F>      <U+260E>
                        <U+260E><U+2713><U+260E>      <U+271D>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                           <U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                       <U+2706><U+271E>                                                  <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                       <U+271D><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F>      <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+270F><U+2736><U+2735> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+2734>
                                           <U+2706>   <U+2738><U+2713>      <U+2706>    <U+2738><U+2713>     <U+2706>   <U+2738><U+2713>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>            <U+2738><U+2713>
                                                                                                <U+271E>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>          <U+271E><U+2738><U+2713>
                                           <U+2738><U+2737>
                                          <U+2706><U+271E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>        <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                       <U+2706><U+271E>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                   <U+2706><U+271E> <U+2702>          <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2737><U+2702>         <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                <U+271E> <U+2702>        <U+271E><U+2738><U+2737>          <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                                                                       <U+271E><U+270D><U+271E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2733><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730> <U+272F><U+272F><U+272F> <U+272E>
                    <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+2704>                                               <U+271E><U+260E><U+271E><U+2704><U+271D><U+261E><U+261B><U+2704><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E>
                          <U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>         <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>        <U+2712><U+260E><U+261E><U+270F><U+2719>        <U+2718><U+2717><U+2716>            <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719>                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+2719>          <U+271B><U+2717><U+2719>        <U+271B><U+2717><U+2716>
<U+261E><U+2720><U+2720><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701>                                                                                     <U+2722><U+2722><U+2729><U+2727>
  <removed-date>                        <removed-apn>

