                                         ABSTRACT
       The present invention relates to the discovery of a novel opioid modulator effective in
reducing pharmacologically induced weight gain associated with atypical antipsychotic use.
The present invention provides methods of reducing antipsychotic induced weight gain,
methods for suppressing food intake and reducing ghrelin levels induced by atypical
antipsychotic medications in a patient.

                                      METHODS FOR TREATING
                            ANTIPSYCHOTIC-INDUCED WEIGHT GAIN
   RELATED APPLICATION(S)
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/376,120,
 5 filed on August 23, 2010. The entire teachings of the above application(s) are incorporated
   herein by reference.
   FIELD OF INVENTION
           The present invention relates to medications used for weight control. More
10 particularly, the present invention relates to the use of a novel opioid receptor modulator to
   minimize weight gain associated with antipsychotic drugs.
   BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
           Antipsychotic medications are among the most important therapeutic tools for treating
15 various psychotic disorders. There are two categories of antipsychotics, typical and atypical.
   Typical antipsychotics e.g., haloperidol and chlorpromazine, were first developed in the
    1950's and were used to treat psychosis, particularly schizophrenia. Common side effects of
   typical antipsychotics include: dry mouth, tremors, weight gain, muscle tremors, and
   stiffness. In addition, typical antipsychotics yield extrapyramidal side effects. These side
20 effects include: motor disturbances, parkinsonian effects, akathesia, dystonia, akinesia,
   tardive dyskinesia, and neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Some of these side effects have
   been described to be worse than the actual symptoms of schizophrenia. Atypical
   antipsychotics are considered to be the first line of treatment for schizophrenia because of the
   improved extrapyramidal side effect profile in comparison to typical antipsychotics. Atypical
25 antipsychotics are also associated with superior tolerability, adherence and relapse prevention
   and have led to improved treatment for patients with serious mental illness. However, they
   are also associated with significant weight gain. Numerous reports based on extensive
   clinical studies have reported that 40-80% of patients under chronic atypical antipsychotic
   treatment experience substantial weight gain, ultimately exceeding their ideal body weight by
30 20% (Umbricht et al., J Clin. Psychiatry 55 (Suppl. B):157-160; Baptista,Acta Psychiatr.
   Scand. 100:3-16, 1999). Weight gain was found to be greatest with clozapine, olanzapine,
   risperidone, and quetiapine, and less with aripiprazole and ziprasidone. (Taylor et al, Acta
   PsychiatrScand. 2001 Feb; 103(2):158). Weight gain associated with atypical antipsychotics

   increases the risk of obesity in patients undergoing treatment. Obesity is a leading cause of
   mortality as it frequently leads to conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disorders. In
   addition, atypical antipsychotics are increasingly prescribed to children and adolescents with
   psychiatric disorders. A recent study reported that young children who take antipsychotics
 5 risk long term health risks associated with rapid weight gain, for example, metabolic changes
   that could lead to diabetes, hypertension and other illnesses. (Varley et al,
   JAMA. 2009;302(16):1811-1812)
           Excessive weight gain associated with atypical antipsychotic use is a significant issue
   given its impact on general health and psychological issues. Unwanted weight gain is also
10 one of the most common reasons for a patient's non-compliance of an atypical antipsychotic
   administration schedule, ultimately leading to the failure of the treatment. Therefore, there is
   a continuing need to identify and develop more effective drug treatments for preventing or
   reducing this side effect of atypical treatment.
15 SUMMARY OF INVENTION
           Applicants have surprisingly discovered that compounds of Formula I are effective in
   reducing pharmacologically induced weight gain associated with atypical antipsychotic use.
                               / _R3
                 R1       N
            R2
                               R4
    A            OH               R5       Formula I
   wherein,
20 A is chosen from -C(=0)NH 2 and -C(=S)NH 2;
   R' and R2 are both hydrogen or taken together R' and R2 are =0;
   R3 is chosen from hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, aryl, heterocyclyl and hydroxyalkyl;
   R4 is chosen from hydrogen, hydroxy, amino, alkoxy, CI-C 20 alkyl and C1 -C20 alkyl
   substituted with hydroxy or carbonyl;
25 R' is selected from hydrogen, hydroxyl, alkoxy and alkyl;
   R6 is chosen from hydrogen, hydroxy, alkoxy and -NR'"R";

   or together, R' and R6 form a carbonyl or a vinyl substituent;
   R10 and R" are chosen independently from hydrogen, alkyl and aliphatic; and,
         -represents a single or double bond.
            As such, the present invention provides methods of reducing antipsychotic induced
 5 weight gain induced by atypical antipsychotic medications in a patient. The method
   comprises administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I
   to the patient in need thereof, preferably, Compound 1.
           In one aspect, the invention relates to the lowering of circulating ghrelin levels and/or
   the levels of ghrelin in gastrointestinal tracts. As such, the present invention is further
10 directed to methods of suppressing food intake comprising administering to the patient in
   need of treatment an effective amount of the compounds of Formula I, wherein the increased
   appetite is induced by administration of an atypical antipsychotic.
             In one embodiment, the induced weight gain is associated with administration of
   olanzapine, clozapine, risperidone, quetiapine, aripiprazole, ziprasidone, and
15 pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof In one aspect, the patient undergoing treatment is
   suffering from schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, acute mania, major depression or psychotic
   agitation or palliative care or is in need of terminal sedation.
            In another embodiment, the compounds of Formula I are administered orally to the
   patient in need of treatment at a daily dose of about 3 to 30 mg/day, more preferably about
20 3 to 15 mg/day, even more preferably 5 mg/day. In another aspect, the compounds of
   Formula I are administered prior to the administration of an atypical antipsychotic or after the
   administration of an atypical antipsychotic, or along with the administration of an atypical
   antipsychotic or prior to the onset of the antipsychotic induced weight gain or at the start of
   the patient's atypical antipsychotic treatment. In one embodiment, the compounds of
25 Formula I are administered daily. In some embodiments, the patient receiving daily
   administration of a compound of Formula I also receives a daily administration of an atypical
   antipsychotic.
            In still another embodiment, the patient within the past week, month or year of
   atypical antipsychotic treatment has gained about 5, 10, 15, or 20 % body weight.
30          In another embodiment, the invention relates to a composition comprising a
   compound of Formula I and an antipsychotic, preferably selected from olanzapine, clozapine,
   risperidone, quetiapine, aripiprazole and ziprasidone.

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
           Figure 1: Evaluation of Compound I on olauzapine-related weight gain in female rats.
   Mean cumulative weight gain of female rats on olanzapine alone, naltrexone + olanzapine
   and Compound I + olanzapine as a function of days is shown.
 5         Figure 2: Evaluation of Compound I and naltrexone on circulating ghrelin levels
   (pg/mL) as a function of time (hours) is shown.
           Figure 3: Evaluation of olanzapine induced weight gain and body composition in
   female cynomolgus monkeys treated with and without Compound 1.
           Figure 4: Change in fat distribution for female cynomolgus monkeys administered
10 with olanzapine with and without Compound 1.
           Figure 5: (a) CT scan evaluation of olanzapine induced weight gain on abdominal fat
   distribution in female cynomolgus monkeys treated with olanzapine; (b) CT scan evaluation
   of olanzapine induced weight gain on abdominal fat distribution in female cynomolgus
   monkeys treated with olanzapine and Compound 1.
15         Figure 6: Evaluation of blood serum chemistry analysis on female cynomolgus
   monkeys treated with and without Compound 1.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION
           The present invention relates to compounds of Formula I:
                              /-R3
                 R1       'N
            R2
                              R4
20  A            OH              R
   Formula I
   wherein, A is chosen from -C(=O)NH 2 and -C(=S)NH 2;
   R' and R2 are both hydrogen or taken together R' and R2 are =0;
25 R3      is chosen from hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, aryl, heterocyclyl and hydroxyalkyl;

   R'       is chosen from hydrogen, hydroxy, amino, alkoxy, C rC2o alkyl and C1 -C2 o alkyl
   substituted with hydroxy or carbonyl;
   R' is selected from hydrogen, hydroxyl, alkoxy and alkyl;
   R' is chosen from hydrogen, hydroxy, alkoxy and -NR"R;
 5 or together, R' and R6 form a carbonyl or a vinyl substituent;
   RO and R" are chosen independently from hydrogen, alkyl and aliphatic; and
       --- represents a single or double bond.
            In a preferred embodiment, compounds of the invention are related to compounds of
10 Formula II:
                                        /-R3
                                    N
                                       R4
                                               R6
    H2N-                   OH              RI
   Formula II
   wherein, R3, R4, R', and R' are as defined above.
15 A more preferred embodiment is a compound of Formula I or II wherein,
   R4 is selected from hydrogen and hydroxyl;
   R' is selected from hydrogen, and hydroxyl; and,
   R' is hydrogen;
   or together, R' and R6 form a carbonyl or a vinyl substituent.
20 A more preferred embodiment is a compound of Formula I or II, wherein R3 is selected from,
   hydrogen, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, vinyl, furan and tetrahydrofuran.
25

In a preferred embodiment, compounds of the invention are selected from Table A:
Table A
                                 c _          2H1                            H22C
                              N                                            N
                                                                           K
                                 OH                                              OH
        H2N-C           OH           0HN-c                          OH
                  O                                       N
3                               H2c_
                                                                             HC2
                              N                                            N
                    AOH                                                          OH
        H2N-            OH           0             H2N-             OH
                5             N
                                 OH                                             OH
        H2N-C          OH            O             H2N-C            OH              0

                        F'2                              H2C
                                    0                  N   C
                                                           OH
            AOH
   H2N-   C     OH               OH2N-C             OH         O
                    0                             0
     9                        H         10                 CH
                      N                                N
                            OH                             OH
   H2N-CAOH                       O        H2N---   OH
              N                                   0
                            C   1
                          N
                                                       N
                                                       N  2C
                            OH                             OH
11
                OH                         H2N--C   OH
   H2N--C
                            OH
                                           H2N-C    OH        OH
   H2,N--C      OHN

   I151
                                                                                         OH
                                       OH
                                    O
           H2N-C           OH              OH             H2N--C           OH                0
                                                                    0
    17                                                8                              N
                                              -OH
                                                          HN-C             OH                OH
           H2N-C          OH              0O
                                00
           Antipsychotic drug therapy is a fundamental tool in the treatment of schizophrenia,
   bipolar disorder, dementia, acute mania, major depression, psychotic agitation and several
   non-psychotic mental and neurological conditions. Excessive body weight gain was reported
 5 during the 1950's as an adverse effect of typical antipsychotic drug treatment, but the
   magnitude of body weight gain was found to be higher with the atypical antipsychotic drugs
   that were introduced after 1990. Atypical antipsychotic drugs such as aripiprazole, clozapine,
   olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine, ziprasidone, amusulpride, zotepine and seritindole
   convey fewer neurological adverse side effects than the typical agents, however, the adverse
10 bodyweight gain associated with atypical treatment has a negative impact on other
   components of the metabolic profile, such as serum glucose levels, triglyceride and high
   density cholesterol levels. The mechanisms by which atypical antipsychotic drugs cause
   weight gain are not clear. Atypical antipsychotic drugs may increase appetite stimulation by
   either modifying the function of the appetite system i.e., indices of satiety or by targeting
15 neurochemical physiology and metabolic function ie., modulation of known hormone targets
   involved in appetite regulation, such as leptin and ghrelin.

            Applicants have surprisingly discovered that compounds of Formula 1, a group of
   opioid modulators are effective in reducing pharmacologically induced weight gain
   associated with atypical antipsychotic use. As used herein, the term "opioid modulator"
   refers to compounds that can act as an agonist, antagonist or partial agonist at opioid
 5 receptors throughout the body. In one aspect, some of the compounds of Formula I, in
   particular Compound 1, acts as a mu-opioid receptor antagonist and partial agonist/antagonist
   at kappa and delta receptors.
            As used herein, the term "reducing" refers to any indicia of success in the prevention
   or reduction of weight gain in a patient induced by an atypical antipsychotic medication. The
10 prevention or reduction of atypical-induced weight gain can be measured based on objective
   parameters, such as the results of a physical examination. For example, patients undergoing
   atypical antipsychotic treatment were able to maintain a healthful weight range when given
   Compound 1. As used herein, a "healthful weight range" refers to a body mass index (BMI)
   between 19 and 25, as defined by the first Federal guidelines on the identification, evaluation,
15 and treatment of overweight and obesity developed by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood
   Institute, in cooperation with the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
   Diseases (Clinical Guidelines on the Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight
   and Obesity in Adults: Evidence Report, 1998).
            Weight gain as a result of prolonged atypical treatment can be determined based on
20 comparison of changes in a patient's body weight during the course of treatment. The weight
   gained may also be reflected in an increased body fat percentage. To be considered to have
   gained weight as a result of atypical treatment, weight gain may be measured by a percentage
   increase in weight during atypical treatment, e.g., an increase of body weight by at least 2%,
   5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35% or 40%, over, for example, a ten-week period of
25 atypical treatment. An increase in body fat percentage may also be used to measure weight
   gain, e.g., an increase of body fat percentage by at least 2%, 5%, 10%, or 15% over, for
   example, a ten-week period of atypical treatment. Weight gain as a result of atypical
   treatment can occur as soon as the patient begins the atypical treatment regime i.e., within
   days or weeks or the period can be more prolonged i.e., months or within a year.
30          As used herein, the term "atypical" refers to the newer class of antipsychotic agents
   that have reduced extrapyramidal side effects in comparison with traditional antipsychotic
   medications such as chloropromazine, loxapine, haloperidol, fluphenazine etc. Examples of
   such atypical antipsychotics include, but are not limited to, amisulpride, aripiprazole,
   asenapine, blonanserin, bifeprunox, clotiapine, clozapine, iloperidone, lurasidone,

   mosapramine, melperone, olanzapine, paliperidone, perospirone, pinavanserin, quepin,
   quetiapine , remoxipride, risperidone, sertindole, sulpiride, vabicaserin, ziprasidone, and
   zotepine.
            Compounds of Formula I are particularly useful for the treatment of weight gain
 5 associated with atypical antipsychotics, including, but are not limited to, amisulpride,
   aripiprazole, asenapine, blonanserin, bifeprunox, clotiapine, clozapine, iloperidone,
   lurasidone, mosapramine, melperone, olanzapine, paliperidone, perospirone, pimavanserin,
   quepin, quetiapine , remoxipride, risperidone, sertindole, sulpiride, vabicaserin, ziprasidone,
   and zotepine. It is understood that the present invention includes all pharmaceutically
10 acceptable salts, hydrates, solvates, and polymorphs of the above drugs in combination with
   compounds of Formula I and its salts, hydrates, solvates and polymorphs.
           Preferred atypical antipsychotics of the present invention include: Olanzapine, 2
   methyl-4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-10H-thieno[2,3-b][1,5]benzodiazepine,        and its preferred
   crystal form 11 is a known compound and is described in U.S. Patent No's. 5,229,382 and
15 5,736, 541 as being useful in the treatment of schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder, acute
   mania, mild anxiety states, and psychosis.
           Clozapine, 8-chloro- I11-(4-methylpiperazin- I-yl)-5H-dibenzo[b,e][1,4]diazepine, is
   described in U.S. Patent No. 3,539,573. Clinical efficacy in the treatment of schizophrenia is
   described in (Hanes, et at, PsychopharmacoL Bull.24, 62 (1988)).
20         Risperidone, 4-[2-[4-(6-fluorobenzo[d]isoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidyl]ethyl]-3-methyl
   2,6-diazabicyclo[4.4.0]deca- 1,3-dien-5-one, and its use in the treatment of psychotic diseases
   are described in U.S. Patent No. 4, 804,663.
           Quetiapine, 2-(2-(4-dibenzo[bf][1,4]thiazepine- l1-yl- I-piperazinyl)ethoxy)ethanol,
   and its activity in assays, which demonstrate utility in the treatment of schizophrenia are
25 described in U.S. Patent No. 4,879,288. Quetiapine is typically administered as its (E)-2
   butenedioate (2:1) salt.
           Aripiprazole, 7-[4-[4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl) piperazin-1-yl] butoxy]- 3,4-dihydro- 1H
   quinolin- 2-one and its utility in the treatment of schizophrenia are described in U.S. Patent
   No. 5,006,528.
30         Ziprasidone, 5-[2-[4-(1,2-benzisothiazol-3-yl)-1-piperazinylethyl]
   6-chloro-1,3-dihydro-2H-indol-2-ne, is typically administered as the hydrochloride
   monohydrate. The compound is described in U.S. Patent No's., 4,831,031 and 5,312,925. Its
   activity in assays which demonstrate utility in the treatment of schizophrenia are described in
   U.S. Patent No. 4,831,031.

           The patient, as used herein is preferably a mammal, with human patients especially
   preferred, is suffering from a mental illness treatable with an atypical antipsychotic
   medication. Typical disease states treatable with antipsychotic medication include, but are
   not limited to, schizophreniform disorder, schizoaffective disorder, severe schizoaffective
 5 disorder with psychotic features, bipolar I disorders with a single manic episode, severe
   bipolar I disorders with psychotic features, bipolar I disorders manifesting a mixed most
   recent episode, severe bipolar I disorders with psychotic features, brief psychotic disorders,
   psychotic disorders NOS, paranoid personality disorders, schizoid personality disorders,
   schizophrenia, schizotypal personality disorders with sedative, hypnotic, or anxiolytic
10 manifestations, major depressive disorders with psychotic features, dementia, acute mania,
   psychotic agitation, unipolar disorder and psychotic disorders due to specific general medical
   conditions.
           The methods of this invention reduce atypical antipsychotic induced weight gain. The
   amount of compounds of Formula I, adequate to accomplish this is defined as a
15 "therapeutically effective dose". The dosage schedule and amounts effective for this use, i.e.,
   the "dosing regimen," will depend upon a variety of factors, including the type of the atypical
   antipsychotic medication the patient is using, the amount of atypical-induced weight gain that
   has already occurred, the patient's physical status, age and the like. In calculating the dosage
   regimen for a patient, the mode of administration also is taken into consideration.
20         Suitable daily oral dosages for the compounds of Formula I described herein are on
   the order of about 1.0 mg to about 50 mg. Desirably, each oral dosage contains from 1.0 to 50
   mgs, particularly 1.0, 2.5, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,40 and 50 milligrams of the compounds of
   Formula I are administered for the treatment atypical-induced weight gain. In a preferred
   embodiment, the compounds of Formula I are administered in a dose range of about 3.0 mgs
25 to about 30 mgs per day, more preferably about 3.0 mgs to about 15 mgs per day, even more
   preferably about 5 mgs per day. US Application No. 12/727,784, filed on March 19, 20 10,
   describing the therapeutic dosing range of carboxamide substituted morphinans is hereby
   incorporated by reference. Dosage regimen may be adjusted to provide the optimal
   therapeutic response. The specific dose level for any particular patient will vary depending
30 upon a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the activity of the specific compound
   employed; the age, body weight, general health, sex and diet of the patient; the time of
   administration; the rate of excretion; drug combination; the severity of the particular disease
   being treated; and the form of administration. Typically, in vitro dosage-effect results provide
   useful guidance on the proper doses for patient administration. Studies in animal models are

   also helpful. The considerations for determining the proper dose levels are well known in the
   art.
            The compounds of Formula I can be administered in such oral forms as tablets,
   capsules (each of which includes sustained release or timed release formulations), pills,
 5 powders, granules, elixirs, tinctures, suspensions, syrups, and emulsions. The present
   invention includes the use of both oral rapid-release and time-controlled release
   pharmaceutical formulations (see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No's.: 6,495,166; 5,650,173; 5,654,008
   which describes controlled release formulations and is incorporated herein by reference).
            In another embodiment, the invention relates a composition comprising a compound
10 of Formula I and an antipsychotic, preferably selected from olanzapine, clozapine,
   risperidone, quetiapine, aripiprazole and ziprasidone. In a more preferred embodiment a
   compound of Formula I is selected from Table A. In a more preferred embodiment, the
   invention relates to a composition comprising a compound of Table A and an antipsychotic
   selected from olanzapine, clozapine, risperidone, quetiapine, aripiprazole and ziprasidone.
15          The compounds of Formula I can be administered in a mixture with pharmaceutical
   diluents, excipients or carriers (collectively referred to herein as "carrier" materials) suitably
   selected with respect to the intended form of administration, that is, oral tablets, capsules,
   elixirs, syrups and the like, and consistent with conventional pharmaceutical practices.
            For instance, for oral administration in the form of a tablet or capsule, the compounds
20 of Formula I can be combined with a non-toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable, inert carrier
   such as lactose, starch, sucrose, glucose, modified sugars, modified starches, methyl cellulose
   and its derivatives, dicalcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, mannitol, sorbitol and other
   reducing and non-reducing sugars, magnesium stearate, steric acid, sodium stearyl fumarate,
   glyceryl behenate, calcium stearate and the like. For oral administration in liquid form, the
25 drug components can be combined with non-toxic, pharmaceutically acceptable inert carrier
   such as ethanol, glycerol, water and the like. Moreover, when desired or necessary, suitable
   binders, lubricants, disintegrating agents, coloring and flavoring agents can also be
   incorporated into the mixture. Stabilizing agents such as antioxidants (BHA, BHT, propyl
   gallate, sodium ascorbate, citric acid) can also be added to stabilize the dosage forms. Other
30 suitable components include gelatin, sweeteners, natural and synthetic gums such as acacia,
   tragacanth or alginates, carboxymethyleellulose, polyethylene glycol, waxes and the like. For
   a discussion of dosing forms, carriers, additives, pharmacodynamics, etc., see Kirk-Othmer
   Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology, Fourth Edition, 1996, 18:480-590, incorporated
   herein by reference.

   Definitions
           The term "aliphatic group" or "aliphatic" refers to a non-aromatic moiety that may be
   saturated (e.g. single bond) or contain one or more units of unsaturation, e.g., double and/or
 5 triple bonds. An aliphatic group may be straight chained, branched or cyclic, contain carbon,
   hydrogen or, optionally, one or more heteroatoms and may be substituted or unsubstituted.
   In addition to aliphatic hydrocarbon groups, aliphatic groups include, for example,
   polyalkoxyalkyls, such as polyalkylene glycols, polyamines, and polyimines, for example.
   Such aliphatic groups may be further substituted. It is understood that aliphatic groups may
10 include alkyl, substituted alkyl, alkenyl, substituted alkenyl, alkynyl, substituted alkynyl, and
   substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl groups as described herein.
           The term "alkyl" is intended to include both branched and straight chain, substituted
   or unsubstituted saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon radicals/groups having the specified number
   of carbons. Preferred alkyl groups comprise about I to about 24 carbon atoms ("CrC24")
15 preferably about 7 to about 24 carbon atoms ("0-C 2 4 "), preferably about 8 to about 24
   carbon atoms ("C8 -C2 "), preferably about 9 to about 24 carbon atoms ("C-C,"). Other
   preferred alkyl groups comprise at about 1 to about 8 carbon atoms ("C-Cs") such as about I
   to about 6 carbon atoms ("C p-C6 "), or such as about I to about 3 carbon atoms ("C-C 3").
   Examples of C-C     6 alkyl radicals include, but are not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl,
20 isopropyl, n-butyl, tert-butyl, n-pentyl, neopentyl and n-hexyl radicals.
           The term "alkenyl" refers to linear or branched radicals having at least one carbon
   carbon double bond. Such radicals preferably contain from about two to about twenty-four
   carbon atoms ("C2-C24 ") preferably about 7 to about 24 carbon atoms ("C-C        24"), preferably
   about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms ("Cs-C 24 '), and preferably about 9 to about 24 carbon
25 atoms ("C9-C24"). Other preferred alkenyl radicals are "lower alkenyl" radicals having two to
   about ten carbon atoms ("CrCIO") such as ethenyl, allyl, propenyl, butenyl and 4
   methylbutenyl. Preferred lower alkenyl radicals include 2 to about 6 carbon atoms ("C2 -C&).
   The terms "alkenyl", and "lower alkenyl", embrace radicals having "cis" and "trans"
   orientations, or alternatively, "E" and "Z" orientations.
30         The term "alkoxy" refers to linear or branched oxy-containing radicals each having
   alkyl portions of one to about twenty-four carbon atoms or, preferably, one to about twelve
   carbon atoms. More preferred alkoxy radicals are "lower alkoxy" radicals having one to
   about ten carbon atoms and more preferably having one to about eight carbon atoms.
   Examples of such radicals include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, butoxy and tert-butoxy.

            The terms "heterocyclyl", "heterocycle" "heterocyclic" or "heterocyclo" refer to
   saturated, partially unsaturated and unsaturated heteroatom-containing ring-shaped radicals,
   which can also be called "heterocyclyl", "heterocycloalkenyl" and "heteroaryl"
   correspondingly, where the heteroatoms may be selected from nitrogen, sulfur and oxygen.
 5 Examples of saturated heterocyclyl radicals include saturated 3 to 6-membered
   heteromonocyclic group containing I to 4 nitrogen atoms (e.g. pyrrolidinyl, imidazolidinyl,
   piperidino, piperazinyl, etc.); saturated 3 to 6-membered heteromonocyclic group containing
   I to 2 oxygen atoms and I to 3 nitrogen atoms (e.g. morpholinyl, etc.); saturated 3 to 6
   membered heteromonocyclic group containing I to 2 sulfur atoms and I to 3 nitrogen atoms
10 (e.g., thiazolidinyl, etc.). Examples of partially unsaturated heterocyclyl radicals include
   dihydrothiophene, dihydropyran, dihydrofuran and dihydrothiazole. Heterocyclyl radicals
   may include a pentavalent nitrogen, such as in tetrazolium and pyridinium radicals. The term
   "heterocycle" also embraces radicals where heterocyclyl radicals are fused with aryl or
   cycloalkyl radicals. Examples of such fused bicyclic radicals include benzofuran,
15 benzothiophene, and the like.
            The term "heteroaryl" refers to unsaturated aromatic heterocyclyl radicals. Examples
   of heteroaryl radicals include unsaturated 3 to 6 membered heteromonocyclic group
   containing I to 4 nitrogen atoms, for example, pyrrolyl, pyrrolinyl, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl,
   pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, triazolyl (e.g., 4H-1,2,4-triazolyl, IH-1,2,3
20 triazolyl, 2H-1,2,3-triazolyl, etc.) tetrazolyl (e.g. 1H-tetrazolyl, 2H-tetrazolyl, etc.), etc.;
   unsaturated condensed heterocyclyl group containing I to 5 nitrogen atoms, for example,
   indolyl, isoindolyl, indolizinyl, benzimidazolyl, quinolyl, isoquinolyl, indazolyl,
   benzotriazolyl, tetrazolopyridazinyl (e.g., tetrazolo[1,5-b]pyridazinyl, etc.), etc.; unsaturated
   3 to 6-membered heteromonocyclic group containing an oxygen atom, for example, pyranyl,
25 furyl, etc.; unsaturated 3 to 6-membered heteromonocyclic group containing a sulfur atom,
   for example, thienyl, etc.; unsaturated 3- to 6-membered heteromonocyclic group containing
   I to 2 oxygen atoms and I to 3 nitrogen atoms, for example, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl
   (e.g., 1,2,4-oxadiazolyl, 1,3,4-oxadiazolyl, 1,2,5-oxadiazolyl, etc.) etc.; unsaturated
   condensed heterocyclyl group containing I to 2 oxygen atoms and I to 3 nitrogen atoms (e.g.
30 benzoxazolyl, benzoxadiazolyl, etc.); unsaturated 3 to 6-membered heteromonocyclic group
   containing I to 2 sulfur atoms and 1 to 3 nitrogen atoms, for example, thiazolyl, thiadiazolyl
   (e.g., 1,2,4- thiadiazolyl, 1,3,4-thiadiazolyl, 1,2,5-thiadiazolyl, etc.) etc.; unsaturated
   condensed heterocyclyl group containing I to 2 sulfur atoms and I to 3 nitrogen atoms (e.g.,
   benzothiazolyl, benzothiadiazolyl, etc.) and the like.

           The term "aryl", alone or in combination, means a carbocyclic aromatic system
   containing one, two or three rings wherein such rings may be attached together in a pendent
   manner or may be fused. The term "aryl" embraces aromatic radicals such as phenyl,
   naphthyl, tetrahydronaphthyl, insane and biphenyl.
 5         The term "hydroxyalkyl" as used herein refers to an alkyl substituent, as defined
   herein, wherein one or more hydrogens are replaced with an -OH group.
           For simplicity, chemical moieties that are defined and referred to throughout can be
   univalent chemical moieties (e.g., alkyl, aryl, etc.) or multivalent moieties under the
   appropriate structural circumstances clear to those skilled in the art. For example, an "alkyl"
10 moiety can be referred to a monovalent radical (e.g. CH 3-CH 2-), or in other instances, a
   bivalent linking moiety can be alkyll, " in which case those skilled in the art will understand
   the alkyl to be a divalent radical (e.g., -CH 2 -CH 2 -), which is equivalent to the term "alkylene.
   " Similarly, in circumstances in which divalent moieties are required and are stated as being
   "alkoxy", "alkylamino", "aryloxy", "alkylthio", "aryl", "heteroaryl", "heterocyclic", "alkyl"
15 "alkenyl", "alkynyl", "aliphatic", or "cycloalkyl", those skilled in the art will understand that
   the terms alkoxy", "alkylamino", "aryloxy", "alkylthio", "aryl", "heteroaryl", "heterocyclic",
   "alkyl", "alkenyl", "alkynyl", "aliphatic", or "cycloalkyl" refer to the corresponding divalent
   moiety.
   The invention is further illustrated by the following non-limited examples.
20
   EXAMPLE 1: Evaluation of Compound I on Olanzanine-Related Weight Gain in Female
   Rats
           To determine if Compound I could reduce antipsychotic associated weight gain, four
   groups of female rats (n = 8/group) were used for this study: 1) olanzapine only; 2)
25 olanzapine and naltrexone; 3) olanzapine and Compound1; and 4) vehicle control. The rats
   were assigned to treatment groups using a random block design based on initial body weight.
   The olanzapine group was given PO twice daily (6 hours between doses) at a dose of 1 mg/kg
   (in 1%methylcellulose, for 10 consecutive days). Naltrexone and Compound I were both
   administered at doses of 2 mg/kg (SC) concurrent with the afternoon administration of
30 olanzapine. There was an effect of Treatment (F(,s)= 9.7, p < 0.001), Day (F(3 ,9)= 359.8, p
   < 0.001) and a Treatment x Day interaction (F(2 7,252) = 10.2, p < 0.001) on body weight.
   While all rats gained weight during the study, olanzapine alone administration caused greater
   increases in weight gain and the increased gain was apparent by day 5. Co-administration of

   naltrexone with olanzapine did not affect olanzapine-induced weight gain. In contrast,
   weight gain in rats receiving Compound I was similar to those in vehicle-controls rats,
   demonstrating the ability of Compound ito block olanzapine induced weight gain (Figure 1).
 5 EXAMPLE 2: Evaluation of Comound1 and Naltrexone on Circulating Ghrelin Levels
           Recent research has reported that the gut hormone ghrelin plays a role in appetite
   regulation by targeting the brain to promote food intake and adiposity (Chaudhri 0, et al,
   Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sc. 2006 Jul 29; 361(1471):1187-209; Abizaid A, et al, J. of
   Clin. Invest. 116:3229-3239.) It is also known in literature that olanzapine increases
10 circulating ghrelin levels. To determine whether Compoundl and naltrexone have any effect
   on circulating levels of ghrelin, conscious, unrestrained rats (low stress model) were
   administered Compound 1 and nalrextone (10 mg/kg, PO). Blood samples were collected
   and analyzed by bioanalytical for circulating levels of ghrelin at 0, 15, 30, 60, and 120
   minutes most administration. Results indicated that naltrexone had significantly greater
15 circulating ghrelin levels than Compound 1 two hours post administration (Figure 2).
   EXAMPLE 3: Evaluation of Olanzapine-Related Changes in Non-Human Primates
           The purpose of the study was to evaluate if changes in body weight can be assessed in
   female cynomolgus monkeys after twice daily oral (gavage) treatment with olanzapine and if
20 changes were observed, can once a day intramuscular co-administration of Compound I
   mitigate or attenuate any of these changes. Clinical observations and weight gain were
   assessed over a 28-day treatment period.
           Three groups of late-adolescent female cynomolgus monkeys (n = 5/group; 4.04 essed
   in female cynomolgus monkeys after 120 minutes most admolanzapine only; and 3)
25 olanzapine with Compound 1. Beginning two weeks prior to the study, monkeys were given
   ad libitum access to a highly palatable, high caloric diet. On the day prior to the start of
   treatment, monkeys were weighed and assigned to groups using a randomized block design
   based on body weight (BW); average BW across the 3 groups was 3.1 ± 0.08 kg on the day of
   randomization. Also, baseline whole body CT scans were taken on the day prior to initiation
30 of treatments. Monkeys receiving olanzapine were dosed twice daily (6 hours between
   doses) for 28 days. The initial daily dose of olanzapine was 1 mg/kg (PO, in 1%
   methylcellulose) and increased every 3 days to a daily dose of 6 mg/kg by Day 10. For group
   3, Compound 1 (0.4 mg/kg, IM) was administered in the morning immediately after

   administration of olanzapine. Weights were taken every 3 days and on Day 28 blood samples
   were collected for serum chemistry analysis. A second CT scan was conducted on day 29.
            Results indicated that BWs were relatively constant for two months prior to the
   initiation of ad libitun feeding. Vehicle treated monkeys gained an average of 0.28 kg (9%
 5 of Day 0 BW) over the 28-day study. This gain was attributed to the ad libitum feeding of the
   highly palatable diet. Over the same 28-day period, olanzapine-treated monkeys gained an
   average of 0.46 kg (15% of Day 0 BW). This marked increase in average weight gain was
   driven by 3 of the 5 monkeys who gained between 19.8 and 37.8 % of their initial body
   weight. An accretion of adipose tissue was observed in all monkeys compared to baseline
10 control values. However, monkeys in the olanzapine group gained relatively more adipose
   tissue compared to the vehicle group. Also, there was a difference in the location of the
   adipose tissue deposition with the olanzapine group showing more abdominal fat accretion
   (Figure 5). Concentrations of triglycerides (TGs) and LDL were higher in olanzapine treated
   animals (86.6 and 105.8 mg/dL, respectively) compared to the vehicle group (62 and 87.8
15 mg/dL, respectively) (Figure 6). In monkeys treated with olanzapine and Compound 1, the
   average BW gain over the 28 days was only 0.08 kg (2.6% of Day 0 BW). While these
   animals also gained adipose tissue, the extent and distribution of fat was similar to that
   observed in the vehicle group and lower than the olanzapine-only group. Finally, co
   administration of Compound I prevented olanzapine-induced elevations in TGs and LDL
20 concentrations.
            Based on this data, treatment of nonhuman primates with olanzapine for 28 days
   resulted in qualitative changes in weight, adipose tissue accretion, TGs and LDLs similar to
   those reported in patients. Furthermore, OLZ-induced changes were mitigated by co
   administration of Compound I (Figure 3 and 4).
25          Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein are accorded
   the meaning commonly known to one with ordinary skill in the art. All publications, patents,
   published patent applications and other references mentioned herein are hereby incorporated
   by reference in their entirety.
            While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to
30 preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various
   changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the
   invention encompassed by the appended claims.

                                               CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.     A composition comprising olanzapine and a compound of formula
                              2C
                            N
                               OH
       H2 N--C      OH            0
                                      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.     The composition of claim 1, wherein the composition comprises the pharmaceutically
                                                                        2C-<
                                                                      N
                                                                         OH
                                                  H 2 N-C      OH            0
       acceptable salt of the compound of formula         O
3.     The composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition is in the form of a tablet.
4.     The composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition is adapted for oral
       administration.
                                               18

5. The composition according to claim 1, wherein the composition comprises from about 3
                                                                     2C-<
                                                                   N
                                                                      OH
                                              H 2N---C      OH            0
   to about 30 mg of a compound of formula              O                     or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
6. The composition according to claim 5, wherein the composition comprises from about 3
                                                                     2C-<
                                                                   N
                                                                      OH
                                              H 2N--C       OH            0
   to about 15 mg of a compound of formula              O                     or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
7. The composition according to claim 6, wherein the composition comprises 10 mg of a
                                                 2C-<
                                             N
                                                  OH
                         H2 N-C        OH             0
   compound of formula          O                         or a pharmaceutically acceptable
   salt thereof.
                                           19

8.  A method of treating schizophrenia comprising administering a composition comprising
                                                                2C
                                                              N
                                                                 OH
                                            H 2N-C      OH           0
    olanzapine and a compound of formula             0                     or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
9.  The method of claim 8, wherein the composition comprises the pharmaceutically
                                                                    2C-<
                                                                  N
                                                                     OH
                                                  H2N-C    OH            O
    acceptable salt of the compound of formula             O
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein the composition is administered orally.
11. The method according to claim 8, wherein the composition is administered daily.
12. The method according to claim 8, wherein the composition is in the form of a tablet.
                                            20

13. The method according to claim 8, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N--C      OH           0
                                  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of about 3 to about 30 mg.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH           0
            0                     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of about 3 to about 15 mg.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH           0
                                  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of 10 mg.
                                             21

16.    A method according to treating bipolar disorder comprising administering a composition
                                                                               2C-<
                                                                             N
                                                                                OH
                                                           H2 N---C       OH        0
       comprising olanzapine and a compound of formula                O                  or a
       pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
17.    The method of claim 16, wherein the composition comprises the pharmaceutically
                                                                   2C-<
                                                                 N
                                                                    OH
                                           H2N---C      OH              O
acceptable salt of the compound of formula              O
18.    The method according to claim 16, wherein the composition is administered orally.
19.    The method according to claim 16, wherein the composition is administered daily.
20.    The method according to claim 16, wherein the composition is in the form of a tablet.
                                               22

21. The method according to claim 16, wherein said compound of formula
                             2C
                         N
                              OH
     H2 N--C      OH              0
                                       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
    administered in a dose of about 3 to about 30 mg.
22. The method according to claim 21, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH             0
                                    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of about 3 to about 15 mg.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N--C      OH             0
                                    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of 10 mg.
                                                23

24. A method of treating acute mania comprising administering a composition comprising
                                                                2C
                                                              N
                                                                 OH
                                            H 2N-C      OH           0
    olanzapine and a compound of formula             0                     or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the composition comprises the pharmaceutically
                                                                    2C-<
                                                                  N
                                                                     OH
                                                  H2N-C    OH            O
    acceptable salt of the compound of formula             O
26. The method according to claim 24, wherein the composition is administered orally.
27. The method according to claim 24, wherein the composition is administered daily.
28. The method according to claim 24, wherein the composition is in the form of a tablet.
                                            24

29. The method according to claim 24, wherein said compound of formula
                            2C
                         N
                              OH
     H2 N-C       OH              0
                                       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
    administered in a dose of about 3 to about 30 mg.
30. The method according to claim 29, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH             0
            0                       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of about 3 to about 15 mg.
31. The method according to claim 30, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH             0
                                    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of 10 mg.
                                                25

32. A method of treating bipolar I disorders with a single manic episode comprising
    administering a composition comprising olanzapine and a compound of formula
                           2C
                         N
                            OH
    H2 N-C       OH            0
                                    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the composition comprises the pharmaceutically
                                                                      2C-<
                                                                    N
                                                                       OH
                                                H2N-C        OH            O
    acceptable salt of the compound of formula               O
34. The method according to claim 32, wherein the composition is administered orally.
35. The method according to claim 32, wherein the composition is administered daily.
36. The method according to claim 32, wherein the composition is in the form of a tablet.
                                             26

37. The method according to claim 32, wherein said compound of formula
                             2C
                         N
                              OH
     H2 N-C       OH              0
                                       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
    administered in a dose of about 3 to about 30 mg.
38. The method according to claim 37, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH             0
            0                       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of about 3 to about 15 mg.
39. The method according to claim 38, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH             0
                                    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of 10 mg.
                                                27

40. A method of treating bipolar I disorders manifesting a mixed most recent episode
    comprising administering a composition comprising olanzapine and a compound of
                                  2C
                                N
                                   OH
             H2 N-C        OH          0
    formula          O                      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the composition comprises the pharmaceutically
                                                                     2C-<
                                                                   N
                                                                      OH
                                                H2N-C       OH            O
    acceptable salt of the compound of formula              O
42. The method according to claim 40, wherein the composition is administered orally.
43. The method according to claim 40, wherein the composition is administered daily.
44. The method according to claim 40, wherein the composition is in the form of a tablet.
                                            28

45. The method according to claim 40, wherein said compound of formula
                             2C
                         N
                              OH
     H2 N-C       OH              0
                                       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
    administered in a dose of about 3 to about 30 mg.
46. The method according to claim 45, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH             0
            0                       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of about 3 to about 15 mg.
47. The method according to claim 46, wherein said compound of formula
                         H2C
                       N
                           OH
     H2N-C       OH             0
                                    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
    in a dose of 10 mg.
                                                29

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
