                                          ABSTRACT
The invention is based on the use of ipidacrine to treat potency disorders and can be used in
clinics for treating potency disorders related to the reduced production of reproductive gland
hormones, disorders caused by chronic, including physical, stress, and also associated with
spontaneously reduced sexual function, including anorgasmia or delayed ejaculation, and
other sexual activity disorders not limiting the scope of the invention.

     PHARMACEUTICAL FORMULATIONS CONTAINING IPIDACRINE AND THEIR
    USE FOR THE TREATMENT OF DISORDERS OF POTENCY AND DISORDERS OF
                             OTHER FORMS OF SEXUAL ACTIVITY
 5
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2013306458, filed on
   15 August 2013, and is related to International Patent Application No. PCT/RU2013/000707,
   filed on 15 August 2013 and claims priority from Russian Provisional Patent Application No.
   2012135579, filed on 20 August 2012; each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
10 entirety.
   Field of the invention
   The invention relates to medicine, namely to endocrinology, andrology, in particular, the
   invention refers to the use of ipidacrine for the treatment of disorders of potency and other forms
   of sexual activity.
15 Background of the invention
   Some pharmaceutical formulations containing ipidacrine (Axamon, Amiridine, Neyromidin) are
   well known, but these formulations are intended for the use as drug products for the treatment
   of other diseases, namely diseases of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) including (mono-and
   polyneuropathy) polyradiculopaty, myasthenia           and Eaton-Lambert syndrome of various
20 etiologies); diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), including bulbar paralysis and
   paresis; for the use in the recovery period in case of organic lesions of the central nervous
   system accompanied by motor and/or cognitive impairment); intestinal atony (treatment and
   prevention).
   Therefore, the use of pharmaceutical formulations containing ipidacrine for the treatment of
25 disorders of potency and other forms of sexual activity is proposed by the authors for the first
   time.
   Objects of the invention
   The invention can be applied in the clinic for the treatment of potency disorders associated with
   the decreased production of hormones by the sex glands; disorders caused by chronic (including
30 physical) stress as well as against the background of spontaneously reduced sexual function
   including manifested anorgasmia or delayed ejaculation, other disorders of sexual activity which
   do not limit the scope of the invention.
                                                      1

   The object of the present invention is to extend the use of ipidacrine for the treatment of sexual
   dysfunction associated with the decreased production of hormones by the sex glands, chronic
   stress as well as manifested anorgasmia or delayed ejaculation as well as the creation of a new
   pharmaceutical formulation containing ipidacrine which would expand the use of ipidacrine in
 5 pharmaceutical formulations and provide the use of ipidacrine in pharmaceutical formulations
   for the treatment of sexual activity disorders associated with reduced production of hormones
   by the sex glands; disorders caused by chronic (including physical) stress as well as against the
   background of the spontaneously reduced sexual function including manifested anorgasmia or
10                                     [Text continues on page 2.]
                                                    la

   delayed ejaculation.
   Summary of the invention
   Ipidacrine is a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor. Four classes of cholinesterase inhibitors are
   known (aminopyridines, organophosphates, carbamates and all the rest). Ipidacrine is an
 5 aminopyridine that possesses the structural similarity with the other known aminopyridine,
   namely tacrine, but is superior to the last in relation to the efficacy and safety (Kojima et al.,
   1998). Cholinesterases are enzymes that carry out the inactivation of acetylcholine. In turn,
   acetylcholine is the main neurotransmitter responsible for the conduction of excitement in the
   peripheral nervous system, maintenance of neuromuscular transmission, increased contractility
10 and tone of smooth muscle organs; it also produces a stimulating effect on the central nervous
   system. Thus, the inhibition of cholinesterase activity leads to the maintenance of the
   acetylcholine level and corresponding activity of neuroregulatory functions.
   It is known that the sexual function is controlled by neuronal, neuroendocrine, endocrine and
   neurotransmitter systems. The cholinergic system is involved in the sexual behavior via the M
15 cholinergic mechanism that transmits non-specific information to the neocortex from subcortical
   structures (reticular formation, hypothalamus) and            in the functioning of the cortical
   "awakening" system. The cholinesterase inhibitors affect the neuroregulatory processes
   including those accompanying sexual behavior. For example, in vivo experiments demonstrated
   that the introduction of the cholinesterase inhibitor (eserine) into the lateral ventricle in the brain
20 increases the lordosis in ovariectomized, hypoestrogenic rats (Clemens et al., 1989). The authors
   also demonstrate the influence of the other cholinesterase inhibitor, acetylcholine, to enhance
   the sexual receptivity of the animals. The performed experiments prove that sexual behavior is
   regulated, among others, via endogenous cholinergic activity.
   Similar effects of enhancing sexual behavior in animals when administering cholinesterase
25 inhibitors are demonstrated in a number of other experiments (Clemens et al., 1980; Dohanich et
   al., 1990; Menard & Dohanich, 1994; Dohanich & Clemens, 1981).
   In vivo studies showed that against the background of different external stimuli, such as
   memorizing or learning, stress, any research, and other exposures that directly or indirectly
   affect the brain activity, the increase in the acetylcholine level is observed, and its level may
30 vary depending on the type of external exposure.
    (Mitsushima, 2010). The experiment demonstrated that against the background of sexual
   exposure, an increase in the level of acetylcholine occurs, therefore, this neurotransmitter
   performs one of the most important neuroregulatory functions influencing the sexual behavior
   and functions. It can be concluded that the inhibitors of cholinesterase (which negates the action
                                                    2

   of acetylcholine) are advisable to use for improvement of all components providing the
   neuroregulatory basis of sexual activity.
   The indirect indication of the effect of cholinesterase inhibitors on the enhancement of sexual
   behavior is also side effects of the use of the drugs of this class in the treatment of patients with
 5 dementia. For example, when the drug donepezil (cholinesterase inhibitor) is given to patients
   in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, an increase in the sexual behavior in these patients,
   even to the manifestation of sexual aggression is observed (Bianchetti et al., 2003; Bouman &
   Pinner, 1998; Lo Coco & Cannizzaro , 2010).
   Thus, the regulation of the sexual behavior via cholinergic mechanisms is carried out in the
10 central level. The clinical forms of sexual dysfunction are psychogenic and stressor disorders
   of the sexual function as well as disorders associated with the damage of the central and
   peripheral nervous system and associated with decreased levels of sex hormones. For this
   reason, the drugs from the group of cholinesterase inhibitors may be used in the treatment of
   the specified disorders.
15 Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follow.
   According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
   formulation comprising ipidacrine in an effective amount of 3 mg per dose to 300 mg per dose
   as an active ingredient.
   According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided use of ipidacrine in the
Zo manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of potency disorders, wherein the medicament
   comprises 3 mg to 300 mg of ipidacrine per dose as an active ingredient.
   Brief description of drawings
   Fig. 1 shows the effect of the drugs to be compared on the sexual activity (mean number of
   ejaculations) of hemigonadectomized rats when administering the drugs in mean therapeutic
25 doses in the course of treatment.
   Fig. 2 presents the effect of ipidacrine on the sexual activity of male rats using the model of
   chronic stress caused by electrical current exposure.
   Fig. 3 shows the effect of ipidacrine on the sexual activity of rats using the model of
   spontaneous sexual dysfunction (by criterion of the number of ejaculations)
30 Description of the preferred embodiments
   Definitions
   The term "pharmaceutical formulation" means a formulation in tablet or capsule form (as an
   example but not limited to hard gelatin capsules), including that of prolonged action, containing
                                                     3

  ipidacrine as a main biologically active substance in an effective amount from 3 to 300 mg per
  dose and additionally containing the pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
  The term "pharmaceutically acceptable excipient" means a substance needed to improve
  tableting, such as, but not limited to, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose,
5 colloidal silicon dioxide, magnesium stearate and other conventional pharmaceutical excipients
  which do not limit the scope of the invention.
                                      [Text continues on page 4.]
                                                   3a

   Embodiments of invention
   To illustrate the effects of pharmaceutical formulations based on ipidacrine, here in are the
   following examples which do not limit the scope of the invention.
   Example 1: Preparation of pharmaceutical formulations containing ipidacrine.
 5 The pharmaceutical tableted formulations (including those of prolonged action) on the basis of
   ipidacrine are made in a standard way of direct compression. All the ingredients (except
   magnesium stearate) are stirred to obtain a homogeneous powder mixture using a Y-shaped
   mixer or similar equipment. Then magnesium stearate is added, and the resulting mixture is
   stirred for 2 minutes. The obtained tablet mass is subjected to a tableting process        (tablet
10 diameter of 10 mm or 11 mm in accordance with industry standard OST 64-072-89, with a
   scoreline and bevel edge) at a pressing force of 9 - 10 kN.
   Pharmaceutical formulations in capsules are made using standard processing methods by
   mixing active ingredients and excipients in the correct proportion and further encapsulation.
   Pharmaceutical formulation 1 (content for 1 tablet of 100mg):
15 Active substance:
   Ipidacrine 3mg
   Pharmaceuticallyacceptable excipients:
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 35mg
   microcrystalline cellulose 60mg
20 colloidal silicon dioxide 1mg
   magnesium stearate 1mg
   Pharmaceutical formulation 2 (content for 1 tablet of 250mg):
   Active substance:
   Ipidacrine 40mg
25 Pharmaceuticallyacceptable excipients:
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 75mg
   microcrystalline cellulose 128.74mg
   colloidal silicon dioxide 3.13mg
   magnesium stearate 3.13mg
30 Pharmaceutical formulation 3 (content for 1 tablet of 600mg):
   Active substance:
   Ipidacrine 150mg
   Pharmaceuticallyacceptable excipients:
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 188mg
                                                    4

   microcrystalline cellulose 250mg
   colloidal silicon dioxide 6mg
   magnesium stearate 6mg
   Pharmaceutical formulation 3 (content for 1 tablet of 1000mg):
 5 Active substance:
   Ipidacrine 300mg
   Pharmaceuticallyacceptable excipients:
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 280mg
   microcrystalline cellulose 400mg
10 colloidal silicon dioxide 10mg
   magnesium stearate 10mg
   Pharmaceutical formulation 4 (content for 1 tablet of 230mg):
   Active substance:
   Ipidacrine 40mg
15 Pharmaceuticallyacceptable excipients:
   microcrystalline cellulose 140mg
   colloidal silicon dioxide 2mg
   magnesium stearate 2mg
   Pharmaceutical formulation 6 (content for 1 prolonged action tablet of 600mg)
20 Active substance:
   Ipidacrine 60mg
   Pharmaceuticallyacceptable excipients:
   microcrystalline cellulose 216mg
   colloidal silicon dioxide 2mg
25 hydroxypropyl methylcellulose 120mg
   magnesium stearate 2mg
   Example 2. Evaluation of the effects of ipidacrine pharmaceutical formulation in rats with the
   reduced sexual activity caused by hemigonadectomy. The hemigonadectomy is similar to the
   pathological processes observed in the clinical picture and associated with the decrease in
30 hormone production by the sex glands. The model of hypogonadal state in rats induced by the
   hemigonadectomy corresponds to the pathological processes observed in the clinical picture and
   associated with the decreased hormone production of the sex glands.
   The study of the ipidacrine pharmacological activity was conducted in albino male rats. The
   following six groups of animals were formed: 1 - intact, 2 - treated with sildenafil, 3
                                                  5

   galantamine, 4 - ipidacrine, 5 - gonadectomized, 6 - control.
   30 days before the start of the main study, the experiment was performed (3 times a week for 2
   weeks), namely introduction of a receptive female to the male rat. The number of ejaculations
   was recorded. Those animals whose level of sexual activity was characterized by stable
 5 performance of 1-2 ejaculations during the period of the test were selected.
   The selected male rats underwent the hemigonadectomy (at the right) performed under ether
   anesthesia. Then, during 7 and 14 days prior to the course administration of the drugs, daily
   testing of sexual activity of the hemigonadectomized animals was carried out. The latency
   period and the number of mounts, intromissions and ejaculations in different groups of the
10 animals were considered.
   Administration    of ipidacrine     at  a dose     of 1.7   mg/kg   once   daily  for 7  days   to
   hemigonadectomized rats eliminates fluctuations in the level of the sexual activity due to
   external stressor effects throughout the whole course of the therapy and contributes to the
   increase of central motivation and ejaculatory components. Ipidacrine in the course therapy of 2
15 times a day for 14 days in hemigonadectomized rats at a dose range of 0.85 to 5.1 mg/kg
   produces a dose-dependent increase in the sexual activity of the animals, with a maximum
   manifestation in 3 to 5 days at a dose of 5.1 mg/kg, and in 11 to 14 days at a dose of 0.85 to 1.7
   mg/kg (Fig. 1).
   Example 3. Evaluation of the effects of an ipidacrine pharmaceutical formulation at reduced
20 sexual activity in rats caused by physical stress.
   The most appropriate model (in terms of the ease of implementation) is the model of
   psychogenic sexual dysfunction caused by exposure to physical factors (electrical current) in
   rats.
   The pre-experiment with the animals was performed similar to that described in Example 2.
25 The two groups of the animals similar in the sexual activity level were formed: control
   (administration of distilled water), pharmaceutical formulation (on ipidacrine basis at a dose of
   1.7 mg/kg). The animals of the control and experimental groups were daily exposed to current
   with a voltage of 30V for 30 min once a minute with an impulse with duration of 1 sec. The
   drug was administered 30 minutes before the stress, the testing was performed 60 min after the
30 stress.
   The administration of ipidacrine at a dose of 1.7 mg/kg once a day prior the stress contributed to
   a slower formation of sexual dysfunction in the rats. In an initial period (1 to 3 days), the
   parameters of activity were comparable to the parameters in the group nonsusceptible to the
   stress. Starting from the   5 th day, a significant increase in the latency period of mounts and
                                                      6

   intromissions compared to the animals nonsusceptible to stress (in the group without treatment,
   such changes were observed from the 1" day of the experiment) was registered. Significant
   differences from the group without treatment on a number of indicators were observed on the             7 th
   day (latency period of intromissions) and on the      1 0 th day (latency period of intromissions and
 5 mounts).
   When comparing the sexual activity of the stressed animals without treatment and against the
   background of the ipidacrine therapy at a dose of 1.7 mg/kg, the period from the 3 rd to        1 0 th day
   of the experiment was the most significant. The administration of ipidacrine provided the
   maintenance of the frequency of ejaculations at a level of 60-100%, while in the comparison
10 group, this figure reduced to 20%. In the same period, a higher rate of renewal of activity after
   the first ejaculation was recorded in the animals of the ipidacrine group. By the end of the 14
   day exposure to stress, the number of ejaculations remained at a level of 0.4-0.6 (on the       1 0 th and
   14th day) in the animals of the treatment group, while in the group without treatment, this
   parameter was not greater than 0.2 (7th and14th day) (Fig. 2).
15 Example 4. The evaluation of effects of ipidacrine pharmaceutical formulation on a model of
   initially    hypoactive    male    rats    with     spontaneously       reduced    sexual      function.
   This model is associated with the clinical conditions of anorgasmia or delayed ejaculation in
   humans. According to the results of the five-fold testing of the intact animals, the groups of
   hypoactive male rats were formed. The criterion for selection was average number of
20 ejaculations of less than 0.5 according to the results of the five-fold testing.
   To assess the effect of ipidacrine on sexual function of rats with the reduced sexual activity, the
   groups of the animals with initially low manifestations of copulatory and ejaculatory
   components of behavior were formed. This model reflects the clinical conditions of anorgasmia
   and delayed ejaculation. The effect of the drug on the integral indicator of the sexual function
25 (number of ejaculations) at a dose of 0.85 to 5.1mg/kg when administered daily is shown in Fig.
   3.
   In hypoactive animals undergoing daily course therapy with the pharmaceutical composition
   (ipidacrine content of 0.85 mg/kg), an increase in the sexual activity (starting with the 2 "dweek)
   was registered. It was manifested in the reduction of the latency period of mounts and
30 intromissions (significant differences from the background were registered on the       7 th to 1 4 th day
   of observation). These data allow us to characterize the effect of the drug (0.85 mg/kg) on the
   trend level as similar changes of indicators were observed in the control group. An increase in
   the average number of ejaculations in the group up to 0.6-0.8 and increase of the rate of
   occurrence of ejaculations to 80% were noted. In some animals, the renewal of sexual activity
                                                     7

   was observed after the first ejaculation (on the average in 4-6 minutes) in contrast to the control
   group. While administering the pharmaceutical formulation with ipidacrine at a dose of 1.7
   mg/kg (considering interspecies dose conversion), an increased central motivational component
   (2 to 4 -fold reduction in the latency time of mounts and intromissions) after the first
 5 administration of the drug was revealed. In the subsequent periods, a slight decrease in the
   sexual activity (on the 3'd or 5th day) with an increase of indicators of sexual behavior on the   1
                                                                                                    7 th
   10th and 14th day of the administration of the drug was observed. This was accompanied by an
   increase of the ejaculatory component in comparison with the control throughout the course of
   administration of the drug in the test dose. The number of animals able to ejaculate also
10 increased (up to 80%).
   The administration of ipidacrine at a higher dose (5.1 mg/kg) increased the sexual activity in the
   animals during the first 5 days of observation, which was manifested by an increase in central
   motivational and ejaculatory components. The latency period of mounts reduced from 33.0±5.35
   to 9.3±1.93 s (p <0.05), and the latency period of intromissions from 59.8 ±11.34 to 10.5 ± 1.76
15 (p <0.05) in 3 days of observation. Subsequent administration of the drug at this dose produced
   a negative effect on the manifestation of the sexual activity while in 10, 14 days of the
   experiment the values of indicators were comparable to the control.
   Therefore, the administration of ipidacrine in the animals with the spontaneous sexual
   hypoactivity leads to an increase of copulatory and ejaculatory components when administered
20 at doses of 1.7 and 5.1 mg/kg. The drug at a dose of 5.1 mg/kg is effective only when
   administered for 5 days. Ipidacrine at a dose of 1.7 mg/kg showed an activating effect on the
   sexual function throughout the whole observation period (14 days).
   References:
25 e       Clemens LG, Barr P, Dohanich GP. Cholinergic regulation of female sexual behavior in
   rats demonstrated by manipulation of endogenous acetylcholine. Physiol Behav. 1989
   Feb;45(2):437-42
   *       Dohanich GP, McMullan DM, Brazier MM. Cholinergic regulation of sexual behavior
   in female hamsters. Physiol Behav. 1990 Jan;47(1):127-31.
30 a       Menard CS, Dohanich GP. Estrogen dependence of cholinergic systems that regulate
   lordosis in cycling female rats. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1994 Jun;48(2):417-21.
   *       Clemens LG, Humphrys RR, Dohanich GP. Cholinergic brain mechanisms and the
   hormonal regulation of female sexual behavior in the rat. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1980
                                                     8

   Jul;13(1):81-8
   -       Dohanich GP, Clemens LG. Brain areas implicated in cholinergic regulation of sexual
   behavior. Horm Behav. 1981 Jun; 15(2):157-67.
   -       Mitsushima D. Sex steroids and acetylcholine release in the hippocampus. Vitam Horm.
 5 2010;82:263-77
   -       OCT64-072-89. CpeacTBa jieKapCTBeHHbIe. Ta611eTKH. TiHbI m pa3MepbI
   -       Bianchetti A, Trabucchi M, Cipriani G. Aggressive behaviour associated with donepezil
   treatment: a case report. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2003 Jul;18(7):657-8.
   -       Bouman WP, Pinner G. Violent behavior-associated with donepezil. Am J Psychiatry.
10 1998 Nov;155(11):1626-7.
   -       Lo Coco D, Cannizzaro E. Inappropriate sexual behaviors associated with donepezil
   treatment: a case report. J Clin Psychopharmacol. 2010 Apr;30(2):221-2.
   -       Kojima J, Onodera K, Ozeki M, Nakayama M. Ipidacrine (NIK-247): A Review of
   Multiple Mechanisms as an Antidementia Agent CNS Drug Reviews 1998, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp.
15 247.259.
   The term "comprise"-       and variants of the term such as"comprises"-     or"comprising"-     are
   used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any
   other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation of
   the term is required.
ZO Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the disclosures
   constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                     9

   Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
   paragraphs:
   1.       The use of ipidacrine as a drug for the treatment of potency disorders.
   2.       The use according to paragraph 1 where potency disorders are selected from the group
 5 of disorders of sexual activity: disorders associated with the decreased production of hormones
   by the sex glands, disorders caused by chronic stress (including physical one), disorders that are
   manifested against the background of spontaneously reduced sexual function, including
   manifested anorgasmia or delayed ejaculation.
   3.       Pharmaceutical formulation for the treatment of potency disorders containing at least
10 ipidacrine in the effective amount of 3 to 300 mg per dose as an active ingredient.
   4.       Pharmaceutical    formulation    according    to paragraph   3 additionally   containing
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipients selected from the following group: hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide, magnesium stearate or
   their combinations.
15 5.       Pharmaceutical formulation according to paragraph 3 characterized in that it is a tablet
   or prolonged action tablet or a hard gelatin capsule.
   Still further embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                                     10

CLAIMS
1.      A pharmaceutical formulation comprising ipidacrine in an effective amount of 3 mg per
dose to 300 mg per dose as an active ingredient.
2.      The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 1, comprising ipidacrine in an effective
amount of 20 mg per dose to 60 mg per dose as an active ingredient.
3.      The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 1, comprising ipidacrine in an effective
amount of 60 mg per dose to 300 mg per dose as an active ingredient.
4.      The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 1, comprising ipidacrine in an effective
amount of 3 mg per dose as an active ingredient.
5.      The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 1, comprising ipidacrine in an effective
amount of 60 mg per dose as an active ingredient.
6.      The pharmaceutical formulation of claim 1, comprising ipidacrine in an effective
amount of 300 mg per dose as an active ingredient.
7.      The pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 6, additionally
containing one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients selected from the following
group:
        hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide,
magnesium stearate or their combinations.
8.      The pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 6, additionally
containing microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide, and magnesium stearate as
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
9.      The pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 6, additionally
containing hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide,
and magnesium stearate as pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
10.     The pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 9, in the form of a
capsule.
                                               11

11.      The pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 9, in the form of a
tablet, a prolonged action tablet or a hard gelatin capsule.
12.      The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 11, in the form of a tablet.
13.      The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 11, in the form of a prolonged
action tablet.
14.      The pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 11, in the form of a hard gelatin
capsule.
15.      Use of ipidacrine in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of potency
disorders, wherein the medicament comprises 3 mg to 300 mg of ipidacrine per dose as an
active ingredient.
16.      The use of claim 15, wherein the medicament comprises 20 mg to 60 mg of ipidacrine
per dose as an active ingredient.
17.      The use of claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the medicament additionally contains one or
more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients selected from the following group:
         hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide,
magnesium stearate or their combinations.
18.      The use of claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the medicament additionally contains
microcrystalline     cellulose,  colloidal    silicon   dioxide,   and   magnesium    stearate as
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
19.      The use of claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the medicament additionally contains
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, microcrystalline         cellulose, colloidal silicon dioxide, and
magnesium stearate as pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
20.      The use according to any one of claims 15 to 19, wherein the medicament is in the form
of a tablet, a prolonged action tablet, a capsule or a hard gelatin capsule.
Date: 19 January 2018
                                                   12

<removed-date>
                                                                                                    1/3
<removed-apn>
              The average number of ejaculations in a group
                                                                                      Start of therapy
                                                                                         Observation period, days
                                                              control   Galantamine   Sildenafil          Axamon    hemigonadectomy   intact
                                                                                                   Fig. 1

<removed-date>
                                                                                           2/3
<removed-apn>
              The average number of ejaculations
                                                   background   1st day         3rd day          5th day     7th day         10th day   14th day
                                                                                            Administration period
                                                    stressed              stressed plus Axamon, 1.7 mg/kg              not stressed
                                                                                          Fig. 2

<removed-date>                                                                                       3/3
<removed-apn>
              The average number of ejaculations
                                                        background      1st day         3rd day         5th day        7th day        10th day       14th day
                                                                                                   Administration period
                                                   Axamon, 0.85 mg/kg             Axamon, 1.7 mg/kg               Axamon, 5.1 mg/kg          control (water)
                                                                                              Fig. 3

