                                      ABSTRACT
        Devices and methods for transplanting cells in a host body are
described.    The cell comprises a porous scaffold that allows ingrowth of
vascular and connective tissues, a plug or plug system configured for
placement within the porous scaffold, and a seal configured to enclose a
proximal opening in the porous scaffold. The device may further comprise a
cell delivery device for delivering cells into the porous scaffold. The method of
cell transplantation comprises a two step process. The device is incubated in
the host body to form a vascularized collagen matrix around a plug positioned
within the porous scaffold.       The plug is then retracted from the porous
scaffold, and cells are delivered into the vascularized space created within the
porous scaffold.
                                    - 42 -

          METHODS AND DEVICES FOR CELLULAR TRANSPLANTATION
        [0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>,
filed on <removed-date>, which is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2014200845,
filed on 18 February 2014, which is a divisional of Australian Application No.
2010286531, filed on 27 August 2010, and is related to International Patent Application
No. PCT/US2010/047028, filed on 27 August 2010, and claims priority from U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/238,011, filed on 28 August 2009, each of which
is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
        [0002] The present disclosure is related to the field of cellular therapy, and more
specifically, to methods and devices for transplantation of cells into a host body.
        [0003]   Recent discoveries in the field of cellular therapy present new
opportunities for the use of cell transplantation in disease areas with critical, unmet
medical needs. Currently, there are no fully effective drug therapies for many acquired
and congenital disease conditions, such as diabetes or Parkinson's disease, which are
caused by loss of or damage to cells producing biomolecules necessary for control of
physiological functions. Cellular therapy holds the promise of replacing lost or
damaged cells with donor cells or stem cells to improve the impaired physiological
functions. For example, transplantation of islets of Langerhans cells would provide a
means of restoring carbohydrate control in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes.
Similarly, transplantation of dopaminergic neurons or neural stem cells has emerged
as a promising cell-based therapy for Parkinson's disease.
        [0004] Major limiting factors in the application of cellular therapy is the difficulty
in transplanting cells into host tissue and ensuring that the transplanted cells continue
to function without eliciting an immune response or causing other harmful side effects
in the host. Attempts have been made to administer therapeutic cells directly into the
host body, e.g., in the vascular system or by implantation in an organ or tissue.
However, with direct cellular transplantation, the patient is required to remain on life
long immunosuppressant therapy, and the immunosuppressant drugs can cause
toxicity to the host and the implanted cells. Additionally, direct exposure of the cells to
blood may lead to an immediate blood-mediated inflammatory reaction (IBMIR) that
initiates a coagulation cascade and can destroy a significant portion of the transplanted
cells. Furthermore, cells may become lodged
                                             -1-

in microvessels and cause blockage and thrombosis of the vessels, which may result
in a loss of function of the transplanted cells and damage to local tissue.
        [0005] Another therapeutic approach is the delivery of cells using devices that
provide a biologically suitable environment for the cells to reside in the host body.
Major challenges with this approach are poor incorporation of blood vessels into the
device for nourishing the cells and maintaining an optimal environment within the
device for long-term survival of the cells.        In the absence of an immediately
vascularized environment, transplanted cells are not able to obtain enough oxygen
or easily eliminate wastes, and may rapidly die or become damaged through the
effects of ischemia or hypoxia. Furthermore, even in situations where some vessels
grow early on, the vessels may not be sustained.             In addition, the natural
inflammatory cascade of the body may also result in the death of or damage to cells.
Some of the other difficulties encountered with this approach include excessive
scarring and/or walling off of the device, incompatibility of the device material with
the biological milieu, difficulties in imaging the device and the implantation
environment, improper dimensions of the device affecting biological function of the
cells, inability to load the appropriate number of cells for a sustained therapeutic
effect, and     difficulty in  removing   the   device when    it needs     replacement.
Furthermore, the device configuration may not be amenable to the external contours
of the body, which can result in abnormal protrusions of the device making the
device unacceptable to the patient from an aesthetic perspective.
        [0006] Thus, there still remains a need to find an effective technique for
successful transplantation of therapeutic cells.      The present disclosure provides
methods and devices for delivering and maintaining cells in vivo for an extended
period of time, while alleviating many of the problems associated with existing
device-based cell therapy approaches.
        [0007] In one aspect of the present disclosure, a device for transplanting cells
in a host body is provided. The device comprises a porous scaffold comprising at
least one chamber having a proximal end and a distal end, and at least one
removable plug configured to be positioned within the at least one chamber. The
porous scaffold comprises a mesh having pores sized to facilitate growth of vascular
and connective tissues into the at least one chamber. In some embodiments, the
porous scaffold comprises a polypropylene mesh.
                                            -2-

        [0008] Another embodiment of the present disclosure is a device for
implanting cells in a host body, wherein the device comprises a porous scaffold
comprising one or more chambers having a proximal end and a distal end, and an
opening at either or both the proximal end and the distal end. The porous scaffold
comprises pores sized to facilitate growth of vascular and connective tissues into the
one or more chambers. The device also comprises one or more two-plug systems
comprising an outer plug configured to be positioned within the one or more
chambers, and an inner plug configured to be positioned within the outer plug.
Additionally, the device comprises at least one seal configured to enclose the plug
system in the chamber and enclose the opening at either or both the proximal end
and the distal end of the chamber.
        [0009] In another aspect of the present disclosure, a method of transplanting
cells in a host body is provided. The method comprises the steps of implanting a
device for holding cells in the host body, wherein the device comprises a porous
scaffold comprising at least one chamber having a proximal end and a distal end.
The porous scaffold comprises a mesh having pores sized to facilitate growth of
vascular and connective tissues into the at least one chamber.                 In some
embodiments, the porous scaffold comprises a polypropylene mesh.            The device
further comprises at least one plug configured to be positioned within the at least one
chamber, and the least one chamber comprises an opening at either or both the
proximal end and the distal end. The method comprises the steps of closing the
opening at either or both the proximal end and the distal end of the chamber after
implanting the device. The method further comprises maintaining the device in the
host body until the porous scaffold is infiltrated with vascular and connective tissues,
accessing the device through a surgical incision, reopening either or both the
proximal end and the distal end of the chamber, extracting the plug from the
chamber to create a space within the porous scaffold that is encapsulated in
vascularized collagen matrix, delivering a cell preparation into the vascularized
space, and reclosing the opening at either or both the proximal end and the distal
end of the chamber.
        [0010] In another alternate embodiment, the method of implanting cells in a
host body provides an implantable device for holding cells in the host body, wherein
the implantable device comprises a porous scaffold having pores sized to facilitate
growth of vascular and connective tissues into the porous scaffold, at least one two
                                           -3-

plug system configured to be positioned within the porous scaffold.          The porous
scaffold of the implantable device comprises at least one chamber having an
opening at either or both a proximal end and a distal end of the chamber.           The
device comprises a seal to enclose the opening at either or both the proximal and
distal ends of the at least one chamber.          The at least one plug system of the
implantable device comprises an outer plug configured to be positioned within the at
least one chamber and an inner plug configured to be positioned within the outer
plug. The method further comprises the steps of implanting the device in the host
body, maintaining the device in the host body until the device is infiltrated with
vascular and connective tissues, and providing a cell delivery device comprising at
least one cell infusion tube loaded with a cell preparation, wherein the cell infusion
tube is configured to be positioned within the outer plug of the at least one plug
system. Additionally, the method comprises accessing the implanted device through
a surgical incision and opening the seal at either or both the proximal end and the
distal end of the device, withdrawing the inner plug from the plug system, inserting
the cell infusion tube into the outer plug, withdrawing the outer plug from the at least
one chamber and simultaneously infusing the chamber with the cell preparation, and
reclosing the seal. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description
and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are
not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.
        [0011] Another aspect of the disclosure provides a cellular transplantation
device comprising a porous scaffold having pores sized to facilitate growth of
vascular and connective tissues into the porous scaffold comprising at least one
chamber and preferably between 2-12 chambers, wherein the porous scaffold is
coated with a biocompatible, biodegradable material designed to temporarily fill the
pores of the scaffold.      In certain embodiments, the porous scaffold comprises a
polypropylene mesh. Suitable biocompatible, biodegradable materials include, e.g.,
collagen, fibronectin, extracellular matrix proteins, and membrane cytoskeletal
proteins. The disclosure also provides a method for transplanting cells into a host
body comprising implanting a transplantation device comprising a porous scaffold
having pores sized to facilitate growth of vascular and connective tissues into the
porous scaffold comprising at least one chamber and preferably between 2-12
chambers,      wherein    the   porous   scaffold  is coated   with   a   biocompatible,
biodegradable material that temporarily fills the pores of the scaffold, and wherein
                                            -4-

the at least one chamber is filled with the cells to be transplanted and the chamber is
sealed.
        [0012] The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute
a part of this specification, together with the description, illustrate methods and
embodiments of the invention.
Brief Description of Drawings
        [0013] FIGS. 1A-1E illustrate various embodiments of a single-chamber cell
transplantation device consistent with the present disclosure;
        [0014] FIG.   1F     illustrates an    embodiment     of  a   multi-chamber   cell
transplantation device consistent with the present disclosure;
        [0015] FIGS. 2A-2D illustrate various mesh configurations that may be used
for forming a cell transplantation device consistent with the present disclosure;
        [0016] FIG. 3A illustrates a cell transplantation device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0017] FIG. 3B illustrates the components of the cell transplantation device of
FIG. 1A;
        [0018] FIG. 4 illustrates a porous scaffold of a cell transplantation device
consistent with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0019] FIG. 5A illustrates a seal of a cell transplantation device consistent with
an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0020] FIG. 5B is a cross-sectional view of the seal shown in FIG. 3A;
        [0021] FIG. 6A illustrates multiple outer plugs of a two-part plug system of a
cell transplantation device consistent with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
        [0022] FIG. 6B is a cross-sectional view of an outer plug illustrated in FIG. 5A;
        [0023] FIG. 6C is a cross-sectional view of a plug system and a single porous
scaffold assembly prior to implantation in a host body;
        [0024] FIG. 6D is a cross-sectional view of the assembly illustrated in FIG. 4C
following incubation in a host body;
        [0025] FIG. 6E is a cross-sectional view of a porous scaffold implanted in a
host body following removal of the plug system;
        [0026] FIG. 7 illustrates multiple inner plugs of a two-part plug system of a cell
transplantation device consistent with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
                                             -5-

         [0027] FIG. 8 illustrates a seal for enclosing cells within a vascularized
chamber of a cell transplantation device consistent with an embodiment of the
present disclosure;
         [0028] FIG. 9A illustrates a device for delivering cells to a cell transplantation
device consistent with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
         [0029] FIG. 9B shows a cell infusion mechanism of the delivery device
illustrated in FIG. 8A;
         [0030] FIG. 9C shows additional steps of the cell infusion mechanism of the
delivery device illustrated in FIGS. 8A-8B;
         [0031] FIG. 10 is a flow chart showing the steps of a cell transplantation
method in accordance with the present disclosure;
         [0032] FIGS. 11 A-i 1D show a schematic overview of certain steps of a cell
infusion procedure in accordance with the present disclosure;
         [0033] FIG. 12A shows line graphs of blood glucose measurements after
intraperitoneal implantation of cell transplantation devices, as described in Example
1;
         [0034] FIG. 12B shows line graphs of blood glucose measurements after
subcutaneous implantation of cell transplantation devices, as describe in Example 1;
         [0035] FIG. 12C shows line graphs of IVGTT responses in Lewis rats
transplanted with islet cells at 40 days post-transplant, 80 days post-transplant and
post-device removal (at 110 days post-transplant), as described in Example 1;
         [0036] FIG. 12D shows line graphs of insulin levels in response to glucose
challenge in Lewis rats transplanted with islet cells, as described in Example 1;
         [0037] FIG. 13A demonstrates histological staining of insulin within the
chamber of an implanted device, as described in Example 2;
         [0038] FIG.   13B    demonstrates    histological  staining   of   vascularization
(microvasculature) within the chamber of an implanted device, as described in
Example 2;
         [0039] FIG. 14 is table of the average collagen thickness and total blood
vessel/cm 2 calculated      for   four cell  transplantation   devices    consistent with
embodiments of the present disclosure, as described in Example 3;
         [0040] FIG. 15A demonstrates tissue incorporation into a cell transplantation
device at 2, 4 and 8 weeks after implantation, as described in Example 3;
                                            -6-

        [0041] FIG. 15B shows blood vessel formation at various margins of an
implanted device prior to cell transplantation, as described in Example 3;
        [0042] FIG. 16 shows bar graphs of levels of insulin produced by mature and
immature islets, as described in Example 4;
        [0043] FIG.   17A     demonstrates     histological staining of    insulin  and
microvasculature within the chamber of an implanted device, as described in
Example 4;
        [0044] FIG. 17B demonstrates histological staining of microvasculature within
the chamber of an implanted device after cell transplantation, as described in
Example 4;
        [0045] FIG. 18 shows line graphs of blood glucose levels following islet
autograft transplantation, as described in Example 4 ;
        [0046] FIG. 19A shows line graphs of absolute blood glucose levels in
response to glucose challenge in Yorkshire-Landrace pigs transplanted with islet
cells, as described in Example 4;
        [0047] FIG. 19B shows bar graphs of Area Under the Curve (AUC) for blood
glucose levels in response to glucose challenge in Yorkshire-Landrace pigs
transplanted with islet cells, as described in Example 4;
        [0048] FIG. 19C shows line graphs of fold change in C-peptide levels in
response to glucose challenge in Yorkshire-Landrace pigs transplanted with islet
cells, as described in Example 4.
Description of Exemplary Embodiments
        [0049] Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of this
disclosure, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the
drawings to refer to the same or like parts. Throughout the disclosure, the terms cell
infusion and cell transplantation are used interchangeably.
        [0050] A cell transplantation device for containing therapeutic cells in vivo is
provided. In one exemplary embodiment, the cell transplantation device comprises
at least one porous scaffold comprising a chamber therein and having an opening at
either or both a proximal end and a distal end of the scaffold, and at least one plug
configured to be housed in the chamber. The opening at one or both the ends of the
chamber are sized to enable insertion and retraction of the plug from the chamber.
In one embodiment, the at least one porous scaffold is tubular in shape, and the at
                                           -7-

least one plug is cylindrical and extends along a lumen of the at least one porous
scaffold. In some embodiments, the porous scaffold is open only at the proximal
end.     In one such embodiment, the distal end of the tubular porous scaffold
comprises a rounded or flat-bottomed surface. In another embodiment, the edges at
the distal end of the porous scaffold are tapered and brought into contact with one
another to seal the distal end.
        [0051] In another exemplary embodiment, the cell transplantation device
comprises a porous scaffold comprising one or more chambers having a proximal
end and a distal end.      The one or more chambers comprise an opening at the
proximal end. The device also comprises one or more plug systems comprising an
outer plug configured to be positioned within the one or more chambers, and an
inner plug configured to be positioned within the outer plug. Additionally, the device
comprises at least one seal configured to enclose the plug system within the
chamber and seal the opening at the proximal end of the chamber.
        [0052] The porous scaffold is formed of a biocompatible material that should
elicit only a mild inflammatory response in the body.            The mild inflammatory
components stimulate angiogenesis and promote incorporation of a vascularized
collagen matrix into the device, but do not result in significant inflammation around
the device.     An example of such a biocompatible material is polypropylene.         In
exemplary embodiments, the porous scaffold comprises a woven polypropylene
mesh that has sufficient stiffness to facilitate device fabrication. The polypropylene
mesh is also selected to allow microvessels to enter the device and be maintained
as robust, healthy vessels, which is critical for the survival and normal functioning of
the therapeutic cells infused into the device.
        [0053] By encouraging regulated growth of vascularized tissue into the device,
the porous scaffold prevents encapsulation of the device with scar tissue. Ingrown
tissues also stabilize the implant and prevent inadvertent movement of the device in
situ.    Additionally, in some embodiments, the porous scaffold is coated with
biological   or   non-biological   agents   to   stimulate   tissue  incorporation  and
angiogenesis, for example, growth factors.        The device may be dip-coated in a
polymer-drug formulation or other known technique to apply the coating to the
device.     Examples of biological or non-biological agents to stimulate tissue
incorporation and angiogenesis include but are not limited to: VEGF (vascular
endothelial growth factor), PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor), FGF-1 (fibroblast
                                           -8-

growth factor),    NRP-1     (neuropilin-1), Ang-1,      Ang2 (angiopoietin 1,2), TGF-B,
endoglin, MCP-1, avB3, avB5, CD-31, VE-cadherin, ephrin, plasminogen activators,
angiogenin, Del-1, aFGF (acid fibroblast growth factor), vFGF (basic fibroblast
growth factor), follistatin, G-CSF        (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor), HGF
(hepatocyte growth factor), 11-8 (interleukin-8), Leptin, midkine, placental growth
factor, PD-ECGF (platelet-derived endothelial growth factor), PTN (pleiotrophin),
progranulin, proliferin, TGF-a, and TNF-a.
       [0054] In some embodiments, the outer surface of the porous scaffold is
roughened to stimulate tissue ingress. In certain embodiments, the porous scaffold
includes various drug-eluting polymer coatings. In other embodiments, the porous
scaffold may be coated with a biodegradable or non-biodegradable polymer without
a drug. The scaffold may be partially or completely coated with the polymer.
Representative polymers that can be used for coating and/or drug elution include but
are not limited to: methacrylate polymers, polyethylene-imine and dextran sulfate,
poly(vinylsiloxane)ecopolymerepolyethyleneimine,            phosphorylcholine,     poly(ethyl
methacrylate),    polyurethane,      poly(ethylene      glycol), poly(lactic-glycolic  acid),
hydroxyapetite,      poly(lactic     acid),      polyhydroxyvalerte     and     copolymers,
polyhydroxybutyrate        and      copolymers,        polycaprolactone,     polydiaxanone,
polyanhydrides, polycyanocrylates, poly(amino acids), poly(orthoesters), polyesters,
collagen, gelatin, cellulose polymers, chitosans, and alginates or combinations
thereof. Additional examples that may be used to coat the scaffold include but are
not limited to: collagen, fibronectin, extracellular matrix proteins, vinculin, agar, and
agarose. It should be understood that various mixture of the polymers may be used.
       [0055] With respect to drug elution, in some illustrative embodiments, the
porous scaffold includes an antibiotic coating to minimize infections. Representative
antibiotics include but are not limited to: ampicillin, tetracycline, nafcillin, oxacillin,
cloxacillin,  dicloxacillin,   flucloxacillin,     vancomycin,    kanamycin,     gentamicin,
streptomycin, clindamycin, trimethoprim- sulfamethoxazole, linezolid, teicoplanin,
erythromycin, ciprofloxacin, rifampin, penicillin, amoxicillin, sulfonamides, nalidixic
acid, norfloxacin, ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, sparfloxacin, lomefloxacin, fleroxacin,
pefloxacin,   amifloxacin,    5-fluorouracil,    chloramphenicol,   polymyxin,    mitomycin,
chloroquin, novobiocin, nitroimadazole. In another embodiment the porous scaffold
includes a bactericidal agent. Representative bactericidal agents include but are not
                                               -9-

limited to: benzalkonium chloride, chlorohexidine gluconate, sorbic acid and salt
thereof, thimerosal, chlorobutanol, phenethyl alcohol, and p-hydroxybenzoate.
        [0056] In some other embodiments, parts of the cell transplantation device are
coated with antifibrotic drugs to inhibit fibrous tissue encapsulation. Representative
antifibrotic agents include but are not limited to: paclitaxel, everolimus, tacrolimus,
rapamycin,      halofuginone   hydrobromide,      combretastatin  and   analogues   and
derivatives thereof (such as combretastatin A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5, A-6, B- 1, B-2, B
3, B-4, D-1      , D-2, and combretastatin A-4 phosphate (Oxigene)), docetaxel,
vinblastine, vincristine, vincristine sulfate, vindesine, and vinorelbine, camptothecin
topotecan, irinotecan, etoposide or teniposide anthramycin, mitoxantrone, menogaril,
nogalamycin, aclacinomycin A, olivomycin A, chromomycin A3 , and plicamycin,
methotrexate, edatrexate, trimetrexate, raltitrexed, piritrexim, denopterin, tomudex,
pteropterin, and derivatives and analogues thereof.       In some embodiments, the cell
transplantation device may also include polymethyl methacrylate or bone cement or
other types of cyanoacrylates.
        [0057] In some embodiments, the porous scaffold is formed of a material that
allows imaging of the implanted device using, for example, MRIs, fMRIs, CT scans,
X-rays, ultrasounds, PET scans, etc. In one such embodiment, the porous scaffold
comprises a polymer mesh (for example, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene
(PTFE),     polyurethane, polyesters, silk meshes, etc.) that is immunologically
compatible and allows imaging of the neovascularized tissue.                 In another
embodiment, the porous scaffold comprises a combination of materials. In one such
embodiment, the porous scaffold comprises interwoven polypropylene and silk
strands.
        [0058] The pore size of the scaffold material is selected to facilitate tissue
incorporation and vascularization within the chamber of the porous scaffold. In some
embodiments, the pore sizes may range from about 50 nm to 5 mm.                  In one
exemplary embodiment, the porous scaffold comprises a woven polypropylene mesh
with 0.53 mm pore diameter.
        [0059] In some embodiments, the pore size is selected to exclude immune
cells or immune agents from penetrating the implanted device.            In some other
embodiments, the pore size does not necessarily need to exclude immune cells or
immune agents from infiltrating the device. This would be the case, for example,
when     the device     is used to transplant       a combination   of cells, including
                                           -10-

immunoprotective cells, (e.g. Sertoli cells, mesenchymal stem cells, etc.) which can
provide immune protection to the co-transplanted cells. This would also be the case,
for example, when the device is used to transplant syngeneic cells, or cells derived
from the patient receiving the transplant.
         [0060] The plug or plug system of the cell transplantation device is configured
to fit into the chamber within the porous scaffold.        The plug or plug system may
comprise a non-porous material (e.g., polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), polypropylene,
etc.) that inhibits ingrowth of biological tissue into the plug or plug system. The plug
or plug system may be a hollow or solid structure. However, if a hollow plug is used,
care should be taken to prevent infiltration of collagen or any other biological material
into the lumen of the plug when the device is implanted into host tissue. The plug
system is discussed in further detail below.
         [0061] In some embodiments, the proximal end of the plug or plug system is
connected to a seal. In such embodiment, the seal is configured to close the
proximal opening of the chamber when the plug or plug system is completely
inserted into the chamber of the porous scaffold. The seal is structured to hold the
plug or plug system in place inside the porous scaffold. In another embodiment, the
seal is separate from the plug or plug system. In yet another embodiment, the seal
is connected to the porous scaffold. Further, in some exemplary embodiments, the
proximal end of the chamber is closed using surgical sutures and/or vascular clips
without using a separate seal.
         [0062] When implanted in a host body, the porous scaffold of the device
encourages ingrowth of vascular and connective tissue, such that the plug or plug
system housed within the scaffold becomes encapsulated in a vascularized tissue
matrix.    When the plug or plug system is removed from the porous scaffold, a
neovascularized chamber is created within the device, which can then be used for
holding a cell preparation in the host body.
         [0063] The sizes of the porous scaffold and the plug or plug system are
selected to provide an optimal surface area-to-volume ratio for holding cells in vivo
and for ensuring long-term survival of the cells within the neovascularized chamber.
Similarly, the number of chambers in the transplantation device is determined based
on the volume and/or number of cells that are to be transplanted.               In some
embodiments, the total volume of the cell transplantation device is adjusted by
increasing or decreasing the number of chambers while maintaining an optimum
                                            - 11 -

surface area-to-volume ratio of each individual chamber. In other embodiments the
length of the chambers is adjusted to alter the total volume. Alternatively, in various
embodiments, the cell transplantation device comprises a fixed number of chambers,
but only a selected number of chambers are infused with cells depending on the total
volume requirement of the device. In other embodiments the length of the chambers
is adjusted as well as the number of chambers to alter the total volume required.
          [0064] The cell transplantation device disclosed can be implanted either
subcutaneously or intraperitoneally in a host body, including the omentum or other
appropriate site.       Alternatively, the cell implantation device disclosed can be
implanted partially intraperitoneally in a host body, including into the omentum or
other appropriate site and extend into the subcutaneous environment. In one
embodiment the cells may be loaded in the portion of the device extending into the
subcutaneous environment while the rest of the device is in the intraperitoneal
environment. In another embodiment the cell transplantation device may be
implanted into the brain, spinal cord area or any other organ as required to elicit a
therapeutic effect from transplanted cells. In most instances, the host is a human, but
may be another mammal or non-mammalian animal.                   The cell transplantation
procedure is a two-step process comprising a device implantation step followed by a
cell infusion (cell transplantation) step. The cell infusion step is implemented after an
in vivo incubation period during which the implanted device is infiltrated with a
vascularized collagen matrix.          In one embodiment, the incubation period is
approximately thirty days, which allows adequate time for angiogenesis and collagen
infiltration of the porous scaffold.      The incubation period may be lengthened or
shortened, depending on the degree of neovascularization and tissue (collagen with
cells) formation needed or desired.          For example, transplantation devices may
vascularize at different rates depending on the device material, dimensions, or
coatings,     such    as,   for  example,   antibiotic  coatings,   growth  factors,  etc.
Transplantation devices may also vascularize at different rates in different hosts, or
when located in different body tissues within the same host. It is within the skill of a
person in the art to determine the appropriate incubation period.           For example,
imaging studies may be performed prior to delivering cells to ensure that adequate
vascular and/or connective tissue is deposited around and through the walls of the
porous scaffold during the incubation period.            For the cell infusion step, the
implantation site is accessed through a surgical incision, and the plug or plug system
                                            -12-

is removed from the porous scaffold to create a collagen and blood vessel lined
pocket within the scaffold.       The cell preparation is then delivered into the
vascularized pocket, and the porous scaffold is re-sealed. In another embodiment
the cell transplantation procedure is a single step process whereby the device is
placed and the cells implanted at the same time. In this circumstance, the cells may
be placed in a matrix so that they do not leak through the pores of the device or
alternatively the device may be coated with a degradable polymer to prevent cells
from leaking from the device during the process of collagen and angiogenesis
development.
        [0065] In some embodiments, the cells to be transplanted may be combined
with a biocompatible viscous solution or biodegradable polymer formulation prior to
being loaded into the chamber of any of the transplantation devices described
herein.   This biodegradable polymer will protect the cells until the device is fully
vascularized by the host body. These formulations may be placed in the chambers
prior to or following placement of the device in a host, but before a collagen matrix
and vascular structures have formed in the device.             Cells combined with a
biocompatible viscous solution or biodegradable polymer formulation will be
particularly useful in devices designed to be loaded with cells prior to implantation of
the device in the host body.       Representative polymers that can be used as a
biodegradable formulation in conjunction with cells include but are not limited to:
polyethylene-imine      and   dextran    sulfate, poly(vinylsiloxane)ecopolymerepoly
ethyleneimine, phosphorylcholine, poly(ethylene glycol), poly(lactic-glycolic acid),
poly(lactic acid), polyhydroxyvalerte and copolymers, polyhydroxybutyrate and
copolymers, polydiaxanone, polyanhydrides, poly(amino acids), poly(orthoesters),
polyesters, collagen, gelatin, cellulose polymers, chitosans, alginates, fibronectin,
extracellular matrix proteins, vinculin, agar, agarose, hyaluronic acid, matrigel and
combinations thereof.
        [0066] It should be noted that cells may be placed in the device; however, the
cells may also be encapsulated. The following are by way of example and not by
way of limitation. Examples of polymeric cell encapsulation systems include alginate
encapsulating, polysaccharide hydrogels, chitosan, calcium or barium alginate, a
layered matrix of altinate and polylysine, photopolymerizable poly(ethylene glycol)
polymer to encapsulate individual cells or cell clusters, polyacrylates including
                                          -13-

hydroxyethyl     methacrylate     methyl    methacrylate,   silicon capsules,   silicon
nanocapsules, and polymembrane (acrylonitrile-co-vinyl chloride).
        [0067] FIGS. 1A-1E illustrate various exemplary embodiments of a cell
transplantation device 1. Device 1 comprises a polymer mesh (e.g. a polypropylene
mesh, a PTFE mesh, or any other suitable material) that forms a porous chamber 2
for containing cells in a host body.    In some embodiments, device 1 may comprise
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or more porous chambers 2. The availability of
multiple chambers allows the use of any number or combination of chambers
depending on the volume of cellular preparation required, which is within the
knowledge and skill of persons skilled in the art to determine.
        [0068] As shown in FIG. 1A, device 1 comprises a proximal end 3, a distal
end 4, and a plug 5 housed in porous chamber 2.            In one embodiment, porous
chamber 2 is tubular in shape, and plug 5 is cylindrical and extends along a lumen of
porous chamber 2. In another exemplary embodiment, porous chamber 2 comprises
an opening at proximal end 3. The opening at proximal end 3 is sized to enable
insertion and retraction of plug 5 from porous chamber 2. In one such embodiment,
the opening at proximal end 3 is sealed using surgical sutures and/or vascular
clamps during device incubation and after infusion of cells into the device. As would
be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art, any other surgical sealing
element, for example, microvascular clips, clamps, etc., can be used to seal the
opening at proximal end 3. In another embodiment, device 1 comprises a non
porous flap 6 at proximal end 3, as illustrated in FIG. 1B. In one such embodiment,
flap 6 is made of silicone. Flap 6 can be sealed using surgical sutures, clamps or
any other suitable sealing mechanism during device incubation and after infusion of
cells into the device.      In an exemplary embodiment, distal end 4 of device 1
comprises a rounded or flat-bottomed surface.        In another embodiment, device 1
comprises an opening at distal end 4, which can be sealed using surgical sutures,
clamps or any other surgical sealing element, during device incubation and after
infusion of cells. In yet another exemplary embodiment, as shown in FIG. 1C, distal
end 4 comprises a non-porous portion 7, which prevents tissue ingrowth at the distal
end of the device and facilitates retraction of plug 5 from the device prior to cell
infusion.
        [0069] In some embodiments, as illustrated in FIG. 1D, the proximal end of
plug 5 is connected to a seal 8. In such an embodiment, seal 8 is configured to close
                                           -14-

the opening at proximal end 3 when plug 5 is inserted into chamber 5. Seal 8 is
structured to hold plug 5 in place inside the porous chamber.                 In another
embodiment, plug 5 is longer than porous chamber 2 and acts as a seal on both
proximal end 3 and distal end 4 of the device, as shown in FIG. 1E. The edges of
porous chamber 2 around plug 5 are sealed using surgical sutures and/or surgical
glue. After removal of plug 5 prior to cell infusion, the openings at proximal end 3 and
distal end 4 can be sealed using surgical sutures, vascular clamps, or any other
suitable sealing mechanism, as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the
art.
        [0070] In some exemplary embodiments, device 1 comprises multiple porous
chambers 2 that are laterally connected to each other. In one such embodiment, the
multiple porous chambers 2 are formed, for example, by ultrasonically welding the
top and bottom surfaces of a porous material along a line substantially parallel to a
longitudinal axis of the device.     FIG. 1F illustrates a cell transplantation device
having eight porous chambers 2. Each chamber 2 houses a plug 5 during the device
incubation phase.     Plugs 5 are removed from chambers 2 prior to infusion of cells
into the chambers. In one embodiment, device 1 comprises eight porous chambers
and has an overall length of 50 mm and width of 45 mm.            Each porous chamber 2
has an inner diameter no greater than 3.5 mm and houses a plug 5 having a length
of approximately 40 mm and diameter 2.5 mm.            In such an embodiment, plug 5 is
formed of a non-porous, biocompatible material, for example, polytetrafluoroethylene
(PTFE).
        [0071] Exemplary embodiments of the cell transplantation device of the
present disclosure are formed of medical grade polypropylene meshes, for example,
Polypropylene      Knitted  Mesh    (PPKM)      purchased     from   SURGICALMESH     TM
                                                                                         ,
Brookfield, Connecticut, USA.     In illustrative embodiments, the meshes are formed
of monofilaments ranging in diameter from 0.1 mm to 0.3 mm, and mesh pore sizes
ranging from 0.3 mm to 1 mm, from 0.4 mm to 0.85 mm and 0.5 mm to 0.6 mm.
FIGS. 2A-2D illustrate various exemplary mesh configurations that can be used for
forming the cell transplantation devices. FIG. 2A illustrates a polypropylene mesh
(PPKM601) having a pore size of 0.5 mm and monofilament thickness of 0.3 mm;
FIG. 2B shows a polypropylene mesh (PPKM602) having a pore size of 0.53 mm
and monofilament thickness of 0.18 mm; FIG. 2C shows a polypropylene mesh
(PPKM404) having a pore size of 0.53 mm and monofilament thickness of 0.13 mm;
                                           -15-

and FIG. 2D shows a polypropylene mesh (PPKM604) having a pore size of 0.85
mm and monofilament thickness of 0.2 mm.
        [0072] FIG.    3A   illustrates   another   exemplary   embodiment     of a    cell
transplantation device 10.           FIG. 3B illustrates the components of the cell
transplantation device 10. Device 10 comprises a porous scaffold 12, a primary seal
14, at least one plug system comprising an outer plug 16 and an inner plug 18, and a
secondary seal 20.
        [0073] As illustrated in FIG. 4, porous scaffold 12 of cell transplantation device
10 may comprise a polymer mesh (e.g. a polypropylene mesh, a PTFE mesh, or any
other suitable material) that forms one or more porous chambers 22 for containing
cells in a host body. In some embodiments, the porous scaffold 12 may comprise 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or more porous chambers 22. The availability of
multiple chambers allows the use of any number or combination of chambers
depending on the volume of cellular preparation required, which is within the
knowledge and skill of persons skilled in the art to determine.
        [0074] Porous chambers 22 may be created, for example, by joining the top
and bottom surfaces of porous scaffold 12 along a line substantially parallel to a
longitudinal axis of the device.       Multiple porous chambers 22 may have equal or
different cross-sectional dimensions and surface areas. In one embodiment, multiple
porous chambers 22 are formed by ultrasonically welding the polymer mesh from a
proximal end 24 to a distal end 26 of the scaffold. The top and bottom surfaces of
porous scaffold 12 are continuous across the one or more porous chambers 22,
interrupted only by ultrasonic weld lines 28, which run substantially parallel to a
longitudinal axis of porous scaffold 12.         The top and bottom surfaces of porous
scaffold 12 can be indented slightly at each weld line, which offers additional surface
area for vascularization and provides physical stability to device 10 within a host. In
one embodiment, the edges at distal end 26 are tapered and ultrasonically welded to
one another to seal the distal end 26.
        [0075] With reference to FIG. 3B, primary seal 14 is configured to seal the one
or more porous chambers 22 during device incubation and after cell infusion.
Primary seal 14 comprises an inert and biocompatible polymeric film or any other
suitable material. In one embodiment, primary seal 14 is ultrasonically welded at the
lateral edges and at the tapered proximal end 31, as illustrated in FIGS. 5A and 5B.
Distal end 32 of primary seal 14 is attached to proximal end 24 of porous scaffold 12.
                                             -16-

In one embodiment, distal end 32 is ultrasonically welded to proximal end 24 of
porous scaffold 12.
        [0076] In various embodiments, primary seal 14 comprises a re-sealable lock
34, which assists in maintaining the at least one outer plug 16 within a porous
chamber 22 during the incubation period. Lock 34 also prevents leakage of cellular
preparation during the cell infusion process. Any suitable re-sealable locking
mechanism may be used as lock 34.              In one embodiment, lock 34 comprises
interlocking groove and ridge features, which form a tight seal when pressed
together and unlocks when the top and bottom surfaces of seal 14 are pulled apart at
the proximal end 31. Following the device incubation period, access to outer plug 16
is achieved by trimming proximal end 31 of primary seal 14 and opening re-sealable
lock 34. After the cell preparation is delivered into porous scaffold 12, lock 34 is
reclosed and proximal end 31 is re-sealed using, e.g., surgical sutures, staples or
bioadhesives, or hermetic seals.
        [0077] The number of plug systems may correspond to the number of porous
chambers 22 in cell transplantation device 10.        Outer plug 16 is housed within
porous chamber 22 during the device incubation period. In some embodiments, the
length of outer plug 16 is approximately equal to the length of the respective porous
chamber 22.      As illustrated in FIG. 6A, in one embodiment, multiple outer plugs 16
are connected at a proximal end 40 using a common spine 42. Common spine 42
may include one or more grooves 43 to facilitate removal of outer plugs 16 from
porous chambers 22. For example, grooves 43 may allow common spine 42 to be
grasped using forceps.
        [0078] In some embodiments, outer plug 16 has a hollow core 45 that houses
an inner plug 18.      As shown in FIG. 6B, in one embodiment, hollow core 45 is
constrained with one or more internal bosses 47 along the length of the inner surface
of the plug. Internal bosses 47 provide an air space between the outer plug 16 and
the inner plug 18, which allows trapped air bubbles to escape during the delivery of
the cellular preparation, which is described in further detail below. The air space
also prevents vacuum formation during the removal of inner plug 18, and thereby,
maintains the integrity of the newly formed vascularized collagen matrix in and
around the porous chamber. Thus, in some aspects, the plug system comprising
outer plug 16 and inner plug 18 may facilitate delivery of cells to the cell
                                           -17-

transplantation device 10, and may also increase the chances of cell survival within
an intact collagen matrix.
        [0079] In some embodiments, proximal end 40 and distal end 41 of outer plug
16 comprise sealing mechanisms, for example, internal grooves or tapered surfaces,
to ensure an effective seal with inner plug 18. As shown in FIG. 7, proximal end 50
and distal end 51 of inner plug 18 may include complementary sealing mechanisms
53 to prevent infiltration of collagen matrix into hollow core 45 during the incubation
period.    For example, in one embodiment, sealing mechanism 53 comprises a
groove extending around the periphery of the proximal and distal ends of inner plug
18, and outer plug 16 comprises a ridge around the periphery of its distal and
proximal ends. In such an embodiment, the ridge on outer plug 16 and the groove
on inner plug 18 interlock when inner plug 18 is inserted into the hollow core 45 of
outer plug 16, so as to form a complete seal between the inner and outer plugs and
prevent permeation of any biological material into hollow core 45. Additionally, in
such embodiments, if outer plug 16 comprises one or more internal bosses 47, the
height of the ridges at the proximal and distal ends of outer plug 16 may be greater
than the height of the internal bosses 47.
        [0080] FIGS. 6C and 6D illustrate cross-sectional views of porous chamber 22
and plug 16, 18 assembly, in accordance with one embodiment of the present
disclosure. FIG. 6C is a cross-sectional view of the assembly prior to implantation in
a host body, and FIG. 6D illustrates the cross-sectional view of the assembly after
incubation in a host body. The inner diameter of porous chamber 22 and outer
diameter of outer plug 16 are selected to maintain a space 46 around the periphery
of outer plug 16 for tissue formation. For example, in one illustrative embodiment,
the inner diameter of porous chamber 22 is no greater than 4.5 mm and the outer
diameter of plug 16 is no greater than 3.5 mm.       In another embodiment, the inner
diameter of porous chamber 22 is no greater than 3.5 mm and the outer diameter of
plug 16 is no greater than 2.5 mm.         These embodiments provide, for example,
approximately 0.5 mm of space around outer plug 16 for formation of a vascularized
collagen matrix.    The space around outer plug 16 also offers sufficient room for
insertion and retraction of the outer plug into and out of the porous chamber.
        [0081] When cell transplantation device 10 is implanted in a host body,
vascular and connective tissues penetrate through porous chamber 22 into space 46
and form a vascularized tissue matrix 48 around outer plug 16. Plug 16 prevents
                                          -18-

penetration of tissue matrix 48 further into the lumen of porous chamber 22. When
inner plug 18 and outer plug 16 are retracted from porous chamber 22, a pocket 49
is created within porous chamber 22, which may be used for containing cells in the
host body. Pocket 49 is enveloped in vascularized tissue matrix 48, as shown in
FIG. 6E.
        [0082] The number of inner plugs 18 may correspond to the number of outer
plugs 16. Inner plug 18 is housed within hollow core 45 of outer plug 16 during the
device incubation phase. In one embodiment, multiple inner plugs 18 are connected
at a proximal end 50 using a common spine 52. In some embodiments, common
spine 52 comprises a clip feature 54 to assist in the handling of inner plug 18 during
extraction from outer plug 16.
        [0083] Secondary seal 20, as illustrated in FIG. 8, is used to contain the
cellular preparation in the porous chambers when the primary seal 14 is reclosed
after delivery of a cell preparation into the cell transplantation device 10. Secondary
seal 20 is positioned at proximal end 24 of porous scaffold 12 after the cell
preparation is completely delivered into porous chamber 22 and outer plug 16 is
retracted from device 10.       In some embodiments, secondary seal 20 comprises
grooves 60 to facilitate insertion into device 10 using tweezers.
        [0084] In another aspect of the present disclosure, a device and method for
delivering cells into a cell transplantation device are disclosed, and will be explained
with reference to cell transplantation device 10.        FIG. 9A illustrates the various
components of a cell delivery device 70. The cell delivery device 70 comprises at
least one cell infusion tube 71, connector cap 72 having a clip feature 73, and
connector spacer 74.
        [0085] Cell infusion tube 71 may comprise polymeric tubing (e.g. polyethylene
tubing) or any other suitable material to deliver the cell preparation into porous
chamber 22 of device 10 during the cell infusion step. The number of cell infusion
tubes in the delivery system may correspond to the number of porous chambers 22.
        [0086] Connector spacer 74 is positioned at the distal end of cell infusion tube
71 and couples or interfaces with the proximal end 40 of outer plug 16 during the cell
delivery process. Connector spacer 74 includes one or more through-holes through
which cell infusion tube 71 is inserted, as shown in FIG. 9A. The through-holes are
configured to provide a light interference fit with cell infusion tube 71.   The fitting is
adapted to keep cell infusion tube 71 in place during the cell infusion process.
                                           -19-

Additionally, in certain embodiments, connector spacer 74 comprises vents 76 to
expel air from the air spaces in outer plug 16 created by internal boss 47 during the
cell delivery process, as described further below. In one embodiment, outer plug 16
comprises a hub 78 at the proximal end 40.            In such an embodiment, connector
spacer 74 is inserted into hub 78 during the cell infusion process to secure the
delivery device 70 to the cell transplantation device 10.
         [0087] The proximal end of cell infusion tube 71 comprises connector cap 72.
As the tube is inserted into outer plug 16, connector cap 72 advances distally
towards connector spacer 74. When tube 71 is completely inserted into outer plug
16, connector cap 72 fits over connector spacer 74 and/or hub 78, and clip feature
73 connects with outer plug 16/or hub 78 along common spine 42, as shown in FIG.
9C. This enables connector cap 72, connector spacer 74, and outer plug 16 to be
retracted as a single unit as the cell preparation is infused into porous chamber 22.
         [0088] In yet another aspect of the present disclosure, a method for cellular
transplantation     is disclosed    and   will   be  explained with      reference  to  cell
transplantation device 10 and cell delivery device 70.           The cell transplantation
method is not limited to the device embodiments disclosed herein and may be used
with any cell transplantation and cell delivery devices.
         [0089] FIG. 10 is a flowchart illustrating the steps of an exemplary cell
transplantation procedure. The cell transplantation procedure is generally a two-step
process comprising a device implantation step followed by a cell infusion step.
Device 10 is implanted in the host body prior to delivery of cells to allow adequate
time for collagen and blood vessels to infiltrate porous scaffold 12.              In some
embodiments, device 10 is sterilized using ethylene oxide prior to implantation. The
device 10 may be packaged in a self-seal package or any other sterilizable package
along with a sterility indicator strip for an ethylene oxide-based sterilization process.
In some other embodiments, gamma radiation or dry heat autoclaving is used to
sterilize the device prior to implantation.      The type of sterilization method used is
dependent on the scaffold material, since dry heat autoclaving is known to warp
certain polymeric materials (e.g.         polypropylene) due to low heat deflection
temperature. Gamma radiation, at a sterilization dose of 6 M-Rad, can successfully
sterilize cell implantation devices; however, gamma radiation may decrease the shelf
life of devices made of polypropylene.
                                            -  20 -

         [0090] Device 10 may be implanted subcutaneously or intraperitoneally. For
example, for subcutaneous implantation of the device in the host body, an incision is
made through the dermis and epidermis followed by careful blunt dissection of
connective tissue and adipose, creating a subcutaneous pocket caudal to the
incision line (step 810). Once an adequate space is created (roughly the dimensions
of the device), device 10 is implanted into the subcutaneous pocket, and the incision
is sutured (step 820). Alternatively, device 10 may be implanted in the peritoneal
cavity through an abdominal incision. The device implantation steps (steps 810 and
820) are followed by a device incubation period (step 830) during which a
vascularized collagen matrix is deposited in and around porous scaffold 12.
         [0091]After the incubation period, device 10 is accessed through a second
surgical incision. For example, proximal end 31 of primary seal 12 may be trimmed
in situ to open device 10 (step 840). Inner plug 18 is then extracted from outer plug
16 and discarded (step 850). During the inner plug removal process, air movement
is facilitated by internal bosses 47, which prevent formation of a vacuum inside the
device, which can cause disruption of any newly formed blood vessels in and around
the device. Removal of inner plug 18 disengages proximal end 50 and distal end 51
of inner plug 18 from proximal end 40 and distal end 41 of outer plug 16. A cellular
preparation is then delivered into device 10 using cell delivery device 70.
         [0092] FIGS. 11 A-i 1D show a schematic overview of certain steps of an
exemplary cell infusion procedure and will be explained with reference to the
flowchart shown in FIG. 10. For administering the cells into device 10, cell infusion
tube 71 of delivery device 70 is loaded with cellular preparation 79, and the tube is
inserted into the hollow core 45 of outer plug 16, as shown in FIG. 11A (step 860).
Connector spacer 74 couples with the proximal end 41 and/or hub 78 of outer plug
16. As tube 71 is advanced into the outer plug, air is vented through internal bosses
47 of outer plug 16 and vents 76 of connector spacer 74. When tube 71 is advanced
all the way into outer plug 16, connector cap 72 interfaces with connector spacer 74.
Clip 73 of connector cap 72 is then connected to hub 78 of outer plug 16 (step 870).
In this case, outer plug 16, connector cap 72 and connector spacer 74 are then
retracted slightly from porous chamber 22 as a single unit to create a space at the
distal end of porous chamber 22 (step 875). In some embodiments, outer plug 16
may be retracted slightly from porous chamber 22 prior to connecting delivery device
70 with outer plug 16. In other words, step 875 may be performed prior to step 870.
                                         - 21 -

Gentle pressure is applied to a syringe connected to cell infusion tube 71 to deliver
the cells into porous chamber 22 (step 880).          Care is taken to ensure tube 71
remains in the porous chamber 22 as pressure is applied to deliver the cellular
preparation.
        [0093] In one embodiment, outer plug 16 is retracted approximately 5 mm
before the cell infusion is started, as illustrated in FIG. 11 B. As pressure (P) is
applied to the syringe connected to cell infusion tube 71, the cell preparation 79
infuses into the porous chamber 22. As the cell preparation is delivered into porous
chamber 22, outer plug 16 and cell infusion tube 71 are withdrawn from the device,
as shown in FIGS. 11C and 11 D (step 885). When the device is completely filled
with the cellular preparation 79, cell infusion is stopped and cell infusion tube 71 is
completely retracted from device 10 (step 890).            Porous chamber 22 is then
evaluated for remaining capacity for cellular preparation, and any remaining cell
preparation may be carefully added to the end of the porous chamber.             The cell
preparation is contained within the porous chamber 22 by placing secondary seal 20
at the proximal end 40 of porous chamber 22, followed by closing the re-sealable
lock 34 of primary seal 12, and securing the proximal end 31 of primary seal 12 with
surgical sutures or staples or other suitable sealing mechanisms (step 895). Finally,
the surgical incision is closed using surgical sutures, staples or tissue adhesives,
thereby completing the cell transplantation procedure.
        [0094] The devices and methods for cell transplantation disclosed can be
used for transplantation of any therapeutic cells, or a combination of cells, into a host
body for providing therapeutic biological material to the host for the treatment of a
disease condition.    The cells may be allogeneic, xenogeneic or syngeneic donor
cells, patient-derived cells, including stem cells, cord blood cells and embryonic stem
cells. The stem cells may be differentiated into the appropriate therapeutic cells. The
cells may be immature or partially differentiated or fully differentiated and mature
cells when placed into the device. The cells may also be genetically engineered cells
or cell lines. In one aspect, an embodiment consistent with the present disclosure is
used for transplantation of islets of Langerhans cells to provide means for blood
glucose regulation in the host body. In another aspect, an embodiment of a cell
transplantation device is used for co-transplantation of islets of Langerhans and
Sertoli cells, where the Sertoli cells provide immunological protection to the islet cells
in the host body. The immune protection provided by Sertoli cells in a host body was
                                           - 22 -

previously disclosed, for example, in U.S.           Patent    No. 5,725,854, which     is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.       Accordingly, this disclosure also
contemplates methods of treating various diseases by transplanting therapeutic
amounts of cells to subjects in need thereof using an embodiment of a cell
transplantation device as disclosed here.
        [0095] The density of the transplanted therapeutic cells, or combinations of
cells, is determined based on the body weight of the host and the therapeutic effects
of the cells. As noted earlier, the dimensions of the cell transplantation device and
number of porous chambers to be used (in a multi-chamber device) are determined
based on the number of the cells required, the extent of vascularization achievable
during the device incubation period, and the diffusion characteristics of nutrients and
cellular products in and out of the implanted devices.
         Examples
        [0096] The following examples are provided to better explain the various
embodiments and should not be interpreted in any way to limit the scope of the
present disclosure.    The cell transplantation devices used in these examples are
formed of polypropylene meshes and comprise a single PTFE plug in each porous
chamber of the devices.
        1. Cell Transplantation Devices Containing          Islet Cells Are Capable of
        Restoring Normoqlycemia in Lewis Rats
        [0097] Cell transplantation devices were used for implanting syngeneic islet
cells in Lewis rats for restoring normoglycemia.          The glucose response of the
implanted cells was compared with the glucose response of islet cells administered
directly into the portal veins of rats. The Lewis rats were divided into three study
groups, with nine rats in each group.        In the first and second study groups, the
devices were implanted in intraperitoneal and subcutaneous cavities, respectively.
In the third group, the islet cells were administered directly into the portal veins.
        [0098] The implanted devices were incubated in the Lewis rats for at least one
month to allow vascular ingrowth. Diabetes was then chemically induced in the rats
by injecting streptozotocin. The rats were considered diabetic if three successive
blood glucose readings were at least 18.0 mM. Isolated Lewis rat islet cells (10,000
IEQ/Kg weight) were then infused into the implanted devices or directly into the
                                           - 23 -

portal veins of diabetic rats.     Insulin pellets were removed at 14 days post islet
transplantation (denoted by the closed rectangle above the graphs in FIGS. 11 A and
11 B). Blood glucose levels in the rats were monitored for a period of 100 days. At
100-days post-transplantation, the devices were removed to confirm that the
transplanted islets were responsible for reversal of diabetes.
        [0099] FIGS. 12A and 12B show glucose normalization results for rats
receiving intraperitoneal (omental chamber) and subcutaneous cell transplantation
devices, respectively.     Successful cell transplantation resulted in normalization of
blood glucose levels (glucose reading less than 8.0 mM), as denoted by the solid
traces. The transplants not achieving normoglycemia are denoted by dotted traces.
The results indicate that normal glycemic level was maintained in a statistically
significant number of diabetic rats that received the islet cells. Following the removal
of the implanted devices at 100-days post-transplantation, rats which previously
demonstrated normal glycemic levels returned to hyperglycemic levels, indicating
that the devices contained fully functioning grafts that were responsible for achieving
normoglycemia prior to device removal.             The rate at which blood glucose
concentrations reached non-diabetic levels was statistically different between the
study groups (p< 0.0001, t-test).
        [00100]        FIG. 12C shows IVGTT (intravenous glucose tolerance test)
responses in Lewis rats transplanted with islet cells. IVGTTs was performed at 40
days and 80 days post-transplantation The glucose response of rats with
intraperitoneal and subcutaneous transplants were compared against glucose
response of rats that received intra-portal islet cells.    IVGTTs were performed on
three rats in each study category. At 40-days and 80-days post transplantation, the
blood glucose levels in rats transplanted with islet cells dropped below 8.0 mM within
50 minutes of receiving a glucose challenge, as shown in FIG. 12C.              The cell
transplantation devices were removed at 100-days. The blood glucose levels did not
drop when a bolus of glucose was administered at 110-days, indicating that the
transplanted islet cells were responsible for the normoglycemia achieved in the
diabetic rats prior to removal of the implanted devices..
        [00101]        FIG. 12D show insulin responses in Lewis rats transplanted with
islet cells.    The insulin levels were tested using enzyme linked immunosorbent
assays (ELISA).      The analysis was performed in triplicate. The results indicate a
significant difference in blood insulin levels upon glucose challenge (p<0.005, t-test).
                                           - 24 -

As shown in FIG. 12D, the insulin levels in rats that received the transplanted
devices correlated well with the insulin levels in rats that received intra-portal islet
cells.
        2.  Histological Detection of Insulin and Vascularization Within the Porous
        Chambers of Cell Transplantation Devices
        [00102]       Following removal of the implanted devices at 100-days, insulin
was detected in the devices using specific primary antibodies against insulin. FIG.
13A shows the result of the insulin staining within the porous chamber of a
subcutaneously implanted device.        The detection of insulin within the chamber
indicated that the islet cells contained in the devices were viable and functional at
100-days post-transplantation.
        [00103]       Histological evaluation of implanted devices was also performed
to verify the formation of vascular tissue in the collagen matrix deposited in and
around the devices. Immunohistochemical staining for Factor VIII associated with
endothelial cells indicated well-formed vascular structures deeply embedded in
connective tissue, as shown in FIG. 13B (dark structure indicates endothelium; cell
nuclei are indicated by arrows). The histological evaluation also demonstrated the
penetration of neovascularized tissue towards the core of the cell transplantation
devices.
        3.  Assessment      of   Anqioqenesis    and    Collaqen    Deposition    in  Cell
       Transplantation Devices
        [00104]       To determine the appropriate length of the implantation phase
(time between implantation of device and engraftment of islets), cell transplantation
devices were implanted subcutaneously into eight week old Yorkshire-Landrace pigs
for 2, 4 and 8 weeks.      Following implantation for the respective time period, the
devices were explanted and analyzed to determine the level of angiogenesis and
collagen deposition.
        [00105]       a) Gross assessment of anqioqenesis and collagen deposition
        [00106]       Photographs were taken of both the ventral and dorsal surfaces
of the explanted devices for gross analysis of blood vessel and tissue formation. A 1
cm x 1 cm grid was laid over the photographs to quantify the microvessel and tissue
(collagen with cells) formation. Each 1 cm2 box within the grid was scored for vessel
formation, allowing for a total vessel/cm 2 to be calculated for the entire surface of the
explanted devices. The average thickness on the medial and lateral perimeters of
                                          - 25 -

the devices were measured to evaluate the amount of collagen deposition. FIG. 14
shows a table of the average collagen thickness and total blood vessel/cm 2
calculated for four devices formed using different porous materials (meshes).
Sufficient microvessel and tissue formation was observed for all the four mesh types
at 2 weeks post-implantation.      The results also indicate that the amount of time
required for microvessel formation and collagen deposition may vary depending on
the device material (porosity, surface roughness, etc. of the meshes).
        [00107]       b) Histological analysis of anqioqenesis and collagen deposition
        [00108]       Angiogenesis was determined by staining endothelial cells with
Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) stain (FIG. 15A) and von Willebrand factor (FIG. 15B).
FIG. 15A demonstrates tissue incorporation into the devices at 2, 4 and 8 weeks
after implantation.   FIG. 15B shows blood vessel formation at various margins of a
device prior to cell transplantation. The assessment of tissue incorporation into the
devices showed that the devices incorporate collagen and microvessels at all
measured time points prior to islet transplantation.
        4. Assessment of Cell Transplantation Devices Receivinq Porcine Autoqraft
        Islets
        [00109]       Eight week old Yorkshire-Landrace pigs were implanted with cell
transplantation devices for four and eight weeks. To make the animals diabetic, a
90% pancreatectomy was performed followed by a 150 mg/Kg intravenous dose of
streptozotocin one day after the surgery.         Islets were isolated from the pancreas
before performing the pancreatectomy. The immature islet grafts were transplanted
into the animals five days after graft isolation and pancreatectomy to allow sufficient
time for recovery and confirmation of diabetes.
        [00110]       The insulin producing capacities of the immature islet cells were
tested prior to transplantation. As shown in FIG. 16, the immature islets produced
about 10% of the insulin normally expected from adult islets. This fact combined
with the low islet transplant number of about 3-5K IEQ/Kg (5-10% of insulin
producing islets normally used in intra-portal transplants) provides a rigorous test of
the cell transplantation devices. Currently in clinical islet transplantation therapy, the
infusion of an adequate amount of p-cell mass has posed an obstacle for treatment
of insulin-dependent diabetes.     Insulin independence is routinely achieved when a
sufficient quantity of islet cells are delivered, approximately 10,000 IEQ/Kg of
recipient's body weight.     To provide this quantity of islet cells, present day islet
                                           - 26 -

transplant protocols require more than one donor pancreas per recipient, creating a
strain on an already limited donor supply. Therefore, if glycemic control can be
achieved using only 5-10% of the islets currently used in intra-portal transplants, the
number of diabetic patients that could receive islet transplant therapy would increase
significantly.
        [00111]      Histological analyses of explanted devices were performed to
test the long-term survival and function of transplanted islets. Islet graft function was
also monitored through bi-weekly blood glucose and bi-monthly intravenous glucose
tolerance tests (IVGTTs).
        [00112]      a) Histoloqical analysis of islet raft function
        [00113]      Following explantation of the devices at 9-weeks, insulin was
detected in the devices using specific primary antibodies against insulin. FIG. 17A
shows the result of the insulin staining within the porous chamber of an explanted
device.    The detection of insulin within the chamber indicated that the islet cells
contained in the device were viable and functional at 9-weeks post-transplantation.
Immunohistochemical staining of explant sections demonstrated healthy, well
configured islets surrounded by robust microvessels (FIG.            17B; microvessels
indicated by arrows).
        [00114]      b) Blood glucose measurements
        [00115]      Weekly fasting and non-fasting blood glucose levels were
measured to monitor for islet graft function following transplantation.             These
measurements aid in determining the overall efficacy of the cell transplantation
devices in long-term control of blood glucose levels. Fasting blood glucose readings
provide a controlled measure of graft function. Briefly, a drop (several microliters) of
blood is collected from a vein of a recipient animal, and the blood glucose level is
determined using a Freestyle Lite glucometer or other glucose testing device.
        [00116]      As shown in FIG. 18, the transplanted islets demonstrated long
term glucose control up to the explantation of the devices at 72 days. The animals in
the "glycemic control" group (n=4) were insulin-independent, and the blood glucose
levels were controlled by the islets in the cell transplantation devices alone. The
animals    in this group showed        long-term    insulin independence       after islet
transplantation.   Some animals, however, remained hyperglycemic (elevated daily
blood glucose levels) following transplantation of islets into the devices (n=6). This
was related to poor metabolic quality of the pre-transplant islets and low islet
                                         -27-

transplant dose (IEQ/Kg). The quality of islets prior to transplantation correlated well
with long-term islet function.
        [00117]       c) Glucose tolerance test
        [00118]       Glucose tolerance tests are important in assessing islet graft
function through the comparison of pre- and post-transplant IVGTT results. To test
the efficacy of the cell transplantation devices, IVGTTs were conducted prior to
pancreatectomy (baseline), at various time points after islet transplantation into the
devices, and after explantation of the devices. IVGTT was performed by injecting a
dose of dextrose and measuring the time it takes for endogenous insulin to bring the
glucose levels to baseline. In addition to measuring blood glucose level, blood was
sampled at various time points to measure the level of C-peptide, which is a by
product created when insulin is produced by       P  cells. Results for an IVGTT were
interpreted using absolute values of blood glucose level (FIG. 19A), area under
curve (AUC) of blood glucose level (FIG. 19B), and fold change in C-peptide level
(FIG. 19C).
        [00119]       As shown in FIGS. 19A and 19B, the glucose levels rise
significantly (p<0.001, Anova) after the device is explanted, indicating that the
removal of the device results in elimination of insulin function similar to a diabetic
animal with no islets.      While the lowest glucose levels were detected in non
pancreatectomized      animals, the    islet autograft recipients showed significant
reduction is glucose levels after dextrose injection, indicating that the immature islets
can survive and function after transplantation.
        [00120]       Serum samples from the IVGTTs were analyzed using Linco's
Porcine C-Peptide      Radioimmunoassay kit, which utilizes an antibody made
specifically against synthetic porcine C-peptide. Serum samples at 0, 5, 15, 30, 60
and 120 minutes post-dextrose injection were analyzed for the presence of porcine
C-peptide. Four study groups were tested-non-pancreatectomized pigs (baseline),
islet autograft recipients (post-islet transplantation), autograft recipients that have
had their devices removed (post-device removal) and diabetic control pigs. When
examining fold changes in C-peptide levels among the different study groups,
baseline and post-islet transplant recipients showed very comparable result,
although the C-peptide level in post-islet transplant recipients increased at 60
minutes as opposed to 30 minutes for the baseline group (FIG. 19C). Furthermore,
fold changes in C-peptide for the post-device removal group and diabetic control
                                           - 28 -

group were similar, indicating that the transplanted islets were responsible for C
peptide release prior to device removal.
        [00121] Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled
in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention
disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as
exemplary only, with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the
following claims.
        [00122] The term 'comprise' and variants of the term such as 'comprises' or
'comprising' are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated
integers but not to exclude any other integer or any other integers, unless in the
context or usage an exclusive interpretation of the term is required.
        [00123] Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an
admission that the disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                          -29 -

CLAIMS:
           1. A device for implanting cells in a host body, comprising:
                     a porous scaffold comprising at least one chamber having a
        proximal end and a distal end, the porous scaffold having pores sized to
        facilitate growth of vascular and connective tissues into the at least one
        chamber; and
                     at least one removable plug configured to be positioned within
        the at least one chamber;
                            wherein the porous scaffold comprises a polypropylene
        mesh.
           2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a non-porous flap
                connected to the polypropylene mesh at an open end of the at least
                one chamber.
           3. The device of claim 1, wherein the chamber comprises an opening
                at only one end.
           4. The device of claim 3, further comprising a seal to close the opening.
           5.    The device of claim 4, wherein the at least one seal comprises a
                surgical clip.
           6.    The device of claim 4, wherein the at least one seal is connected to
                the at least one removable plug.
           7. The device of claim 4, wherein the at least one seal comprises
                surgical sutures.
           8. The device of claim 1, wherein at least a part of the porous scaffold
                is coated with one or more growth factors.
                                        - 30 -

9.  The device of claim 1, wherein at least a part of the porous scaffold
   is coated with one or more substances to stimulate angiogenesis
   and tissue incorporation into the at least one porous chamber.
1O.The device of claim 9, wherein the one or more substances
   comprise vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
11.The device of claim 1, wherein at least a part of the porous scaffold
   is coated with an antifibrotic agent.
12.The device of claim 1, wherein at least a part of the porous scaffold
   is coated with a polymer.
13.The device of claim 1, wherein the polymer is a drug-eluting
   polymer.
14.The device of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the porous
   scaffold is coated with one or more biodegradable materials that fill
   pores of the porous scaffold.
15.The device of claim 14, wherein the biodegradable materials
   comprises at least one of collagen, fibronectin, and membrane
   cytoskeletal proteins.
16.The device of claim 1, wherein at least a part of the porous scaffold
   is roughened to stimulate tissue incorporation into the at least one
   porous chamber.
17.The device of claim 1, wherein the porous scaffold comprises
   multiple chambers that are connected laterally.
18.The device of claim 17, wherein the multiple chambers are formed
   by ultrasonic welding.
                            - 31 -

   19. The device of claim 17, further comprising a common seal for the
        multiple chambers.
   20.The device of claim 17, further comprising a seal for each chamber.
   21.A device for implanting cells in a host body, comprising:
             a porous scaffold comprising at least one chamber having a
proximal end and a distal end, the porous scaffold having pores sized to
facilitate growth of vascular and connective tissues into the at least one
chamber;
                    wherein the at least one chamber comprises an opening
                    at either or both the proximal end and the distal end of
                    the chamber;
             at least one two-plug      system comprising    an  outer plug
configured to be positioned within the at least one chamber, and an inner
plug configured to be positioned within the outer plug; and
             at least one seal configured to enclose the opening at either or
both the proximal end and the distal end of the chamber.
   22.The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises a
        polymer mesh.
   23.The      device of    claim 22,   wherein   the  polymer mesh     is a
        polypropylene mesh.
   24.The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises a
        radiolucent material.
   25. The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises a
        combination of materials.
   26. The device of claim 25, wherein the porous scaffold comprises
        interwoven polypropylene and silk.
                                 - 32 -

27. The device of claim 21, wherein the at least one seal is connected to
    the porous scaffold.
28. The device of claim 27, wherein the at least one seal is a polymer
    film that is ultrasonically welded to the porous scaffold.
29. The device of claim 21, wherein the at least one seal comprises a
    reversible lock.
30. The device of claim 21, wherein the at least one chamber comprises
    ultrasonically welded seams.
31. The device of claim 21, wherein the outer plug and the inner plug
    comprise complementary sealing mechanisms.
32. The device of claim 21, wherein the inner wall of the outer plug
    comprises at least one protrusion along the length of the outer plug.
33.The device of claim 21, wherein at least a part of the porous scaffold
    is coated with one or more growth factors.
34. The device of claim 21, wherein at least a part of the porous
    scaffold is coated with one or more substances to stimulate
    angiogenesis and tissue incorporation into the at least one porous
    chamber.
35.The device of claim 34, wherein the one or more substances
    comprise vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
36. The device of claim 21, wherein at least a part of the porous
    scaffold is coated with an antifibrotic agent.
                               - 33 -

37. The device of claim 21, wherein at least a part of the porous
    scaffold is coated with a polymer.
38.The device of claim 21, wherein the polymer is a drug-eluting
    polymer.
39.The device of claim 21, wherein at least a portion of the porous
    scaffold is coated with one or more biodegradable materials that fill
    pores of the porous scaffold.
40.The device of claim 39, wherein the biodegradable materials
    comprises at least one of collagen, fibronectin, and membrane
    cytoskeletal proteins.
41. The device of claim 21, wherein at least a part of the porous
    scaffold is roughened to stimulate tissue incorporation into the at
    least one porous chamber.
42.The device of claim 21, further comprising a cell delivery device
    comprising at least one cell infusion tube configured to be positioned
    within the outer plug.
43. The device of claim 42, wherein the cell delivery device further
    comprises a connector configured to connect to the outer plug when
    the at least one cell infusion tube is inserted into the outer plug.
44. The device of claim 43, wherein the connector comprises a clip for
    connecting to the outer plug.
45. The device of claim 42, wherein attachment of the connector to the
    outer plug allows the connector and the outer plug to be retracted
    from the device as a single unit.
                              - 34 -

   46. The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises one
       chamber.
   47. The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises two
       chambers.
   48. The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises three
       chambers.
   49.The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises four
       chambers.
   50. The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises five
       chambers.
   51. The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises six
       chambers.
   52.The device of claim 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises
       seven chambers.
   53. The device of 21, wherein the porous scaffold comprises eight or
       more chambers.
   54.A method of transplanting cells in a host body, comprising the steps
       of:
    a. providing an implantable device for holding cells in the host body,
the implantable device comprising:
                  a porous scaffold comprising at least one chamber having
           an opening at either or both a proximal end and a distal end of
           the chamber, the porous scaffold having pores sized to facilitate
           growth of vascular and connective tissues into the porous
           scaffold;
                              -35-

                    at least one two-plug system configured to be positioned
            within the at least one chamber; and
                    at least one seal configured to enclose the opening at
            either or both the proximal end and the distal end of the porous
            scaffold ;
                           wherein    the   at   least one    two-plug system
                    comprises an outer plug configured to be positioned
                    within the at least one chamber, and an inner plug
                    configured to be positioned within the outer plug;
    b. implanting the device in the host body;
    c. maintaining the device in the host body until the device is infiltrated
with vascular and connective tissues;
    d. providing a cell delivery device comprising at least one cell infusion
tube loaded with a cell preparation, the cell infusion tube configured to be
positioned within the outer plug;
    e. accessing the implanted device through a surgical incision and
opening the at least one seal;
    f. withdrawing the inner plug from the two-plug system;
    g. inserting the cell infusion tube into the outer plug;
    h. withdrawing the outer plug from the at least one chamber and
infusing the chamber with the cell preparation; and
    i. reclosing the at least one seal.
   55. The method of claim 54, further comprising the step of imaging the
        porous scaffold prior to delivering cells.
   56. The method of claim 54, wherein the cell delivery device further
        comprises a connector configured to connect to the plug system
        when the cell infusion tube is inserted into the outer plug.
   57. The method of claim 54, wherein the inner wall of the outer plug
        comprises at least one protrusion extending along the length of the
        outer plug.
                                 - 36 -

58. The method of claim 54, wherein the at least one protrusion creates
    an air space between the inner wall of the outer plug and the inner
    plug.
59. The method of claim 47, wherein the air space prevents vacuum
    formation within the porous scaffold when the inner plug is extracted
    from the outer plug.
60. The method of claim 54, wherein the growth of vascular and
    connective tissues into the porous chamber encapsulates the at
    least one plug system in a neovascularized collagen matrix.
61. The method of claim 54, wherein withdrawal of the plug system from
    the   chamber    creates   a    space within the  chamber     that is
    encapsulated in the neovascularized collagen matrix.
62. The method of claim 54, wherein the cell preparation comprises
    islets of Langerhans cells.
63.The method of claim 54, wherein the cell preparation comprises
    Sertoli cells.
64.The method of claim 54, wherein the cell preparation comprises
    mesenchymal stem cells.
65.The method of claim 54, wherein the cell preparation comprises
    allogeneic, xenogeneic or syngeneic donor cells.
66.The method of claim 54, wherein the cell preparation comprises
    stem cells.
67.The method of claim 54, wherein the cell preparation comprises
    genetically engineered cells or cell lines.
                             - 37 -

   68.The method of claim 54, wherein the cell preparation comprises a
        combination of cell types.
   69. The method of claim 68, wherein the cells comprise islets of
        Langerhans and Sertoli cells.
   70.A method of transplanting cells in a host body, comprising the steps
        of:
    a. providing an implantable device for holding cells in the host body,
the implantable device comprising:
                    a porous scaffold comprising at least one chamber having
            a proximal end and a distal end, the porous scaffold having
            pores sized to facilitate growth of vascular and connective
            tissues into the at least one chamber; and
                    at least one plug configured to be positioned within the at
            least one chamber;
                           wherein     the   porous   scaffold   comprises    a
                    polypropylene mesh; and
                           the least one chamber comprises an opening at
                    either or both the proximal end and the distal end;
    b. implanting the device in the host body and closing the opening at
either or both the proximal end and the distal end of the chamber;
    c. maintaining the device in the host body until the device is infiltrated
with vascular and connective tissues;
    d. accessing the implanted device through one or more surgical
incisions and reopening either or both the proximal end and the distal end
of the chamber;
    e. withdrawing the at least one plug from the chamber;
    f. delivering a cell preparation into the chamber; and
    g. resealing the opening at either or both the proximal end and the
distal end of the chamber.
                                  - 38 -

  71. The method of claim 70, wherein the opening at either or both the
      proximal end and the distal end of the chamber is closed using
      surgical sutures.
  72. The method of claim 70, wherein the opening at either or both the
      proximal end and the distal end of the chamber is closed using
      vascular clips.
  73. The method of claim 70, wherein the at least one plug is formed of
      polytetrafluoroethylene.
  74.      A device for implanting cells in a host body, comprising:
           a porous scaffold comprising at least one chamber and having
   pores sized to facilitate growth of vascular and connective tissues into
   the at least one chamber;
           wherein the porous scaffold is coated with a biocompatible,
   biodegradable material that fills the pores of the scaffold.
75.The device of claim 74, wherein the biocompatible, biodegradable
   material is selected from collagen, fibronectin, extracellular matrix
   proteins, and membrane cytoskeletal proteins.
76.The device of claim 74, wherein the porous scaffold comprises a
   polypropylene mesh.
77.The device of claim 74, wherein the chamber is filled with cells to be
   transplanted.
78.The device of claim 77, wherein the cells are mixed with biodegradable
   polymer.
                               - 39 -

79.The device of claim 78, wherein the biodegradable polymer is selected
   from polyethylene-imine and dextran sulfate, poly(vinylsiloxane)eco
    polymerepolyethyleneimine, phosphorylcholine, poly(ethylene glycol),
    poly(lactic-glycolic acid),   poly(lactic acid),  polyhydroxyvalerte and
    copolymers, polyhydroxybutyrate and          copolymers, polydiaxanone,
    polyanhydrides,     poly(amino    acids),  poly(orthoesters), polyesters,
    collagen, gelatin, cellulose polymers, chitosans, alginates, fibronectin,
    extracellular matrix proteins, vinculin, agar, agarose, hyaluronic acid,
    matrigel and combinations thereof
80.A method of transplanting cells in a host body, comprising the steps of:
    a. providing an implantable device for holding cells in the host body,
the implantable device comprising a porous scaffold comprising at least
one chamber and having pores sized to facilitate growth of vascular and
connective tissues into the porous scaffold, wherein the porous scaffold is
coated with a biocompatible, biodegradable material that fills the pores of
the scaffold;
    b. delivering a preparation of cells into the chamber and sealing the
chamber; and
    c. implanting the device in the host body.
81.The method of claim 80, wherein the biocompatible, biodegradable
    material is selected from collagen, fibronectin, extracellular matrix
    proteins, and membrane cytoskeletal proteins.
82.The method of claim 80, wherein the porous scaffold comprises a
    polypropylene mesh.
83.The method of claim 80, wherein the chamber is filled with cells to be
   transplanted.
84.The method of claim 83, wherein the cells are mixed with a
    biodegradable polymer.
                                - 40-

85.The method of claim 84, wherein the biodegradable polymer is
   selected      from      polyethylene-imine       and      dextran      sulfate,
   poly(vinylsiloxane)eco-polymerepolyethyleneimine, phosphorylcholine,
   poly(ethylene     glycol),  poly(lactic-glycolic  acid),   poly(lactic   acid),
   polyhydroxyvalerte       and    copolymers,      polyhydroxybutyrate       and
   copolymers,      polydiaxanone,     polyanhydrides,      poly(amino     acids),
   poly(orthoesters), polyesters, collagen, gelatin, cellulose polymers,
   chitosans, alginates, fibronectin, extracellular matrix proteins, vinculin,
   agar, agarose, hyaluronic acid, matrigel and combinations thereof.
                                -41 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
