                                       ABSTRACT
The invention is directed to a method of producing a security device and a security
document including the security device. The method includes creating a region of
reduced opacity in a polymer substrate, forming a first visual feature on a first side of
the substrate, forming a second visual feature on a second side of the substrate
opposite the first side, wherein at least a portion of the first visual feature or the
second visual feature overlaps with the region of reduced opacity, and wherein when
the substrate is viewed in transmission, the first and second visual features
complement one another to form a complete image or a portion of a complete image.

        1/8
100
    Figure 1A
102
    Figure 1B
104
     Figure 1C

                                               1
See-Through Security Device
Technical Field
[0001]       The invention described herein relates to a method of producing a security
feature and a security document including the security feature. In particular, the
security feature includes a see-through device, although the scope of the invention
may not necessarily be limited thereto.
Background of Invention
[0002]       See-through security features or see-through devices are spatially related
image-elements in substantially seamless front-to-back register on opposite sides of a
security document, such as a bank note. When the security document is held against
the light (i.e. viewed in transmission), the register of the front and back image
elements is revealed.
[0003]       In some cases, see-through devices can be difficult to identify and
therefore not easily recognised by the general public as a security feature.
[0004]       Embodiments of the invention may overcome or ameliorate the
disadvantage or problem described above, or which at least provides the consumer
with a useful choice.
Summary of Invention
[0005]       According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
producing a security device, the method including
             creating a region of reduced opacity in a polymer substrate,
             forming a first visual feature on a first side of the substrate,
             forming a second visual feature on a second side of the substrate opposite
the first side,
             wherein at least a portion of the first visual feature or the second visual
feature overlaps with the region of reduced opacity, and

                                            2
            wherein when the substrate is viewed in transmission, the first and second
visual features complement one another to form a complete image or a portion of a
complete image.
[0006]      Advantageously, the region of reduced opacity allows the complete image
(e.g. a see-through device) to become more easily identified, even if the opacity of the
substrate outside the region of reduced opacity is relatively high.
[0007]      The region of reduced opacity may be created in a variety of different
ways. The method for reducing opacity may depend on the nature and type of
substrate used. For polymer substrates having a plurality of opacifying layers, the
step of creating a region of reduced opacity may include varying a number of
opacifying layers in the region. The number of opacifying layers may differ across the
region such that the degree of opacity differs across the region. In particular, the
opacity may be comparatively lower in some portions of the region, and the opacity
may be comparatively higher in some portions of the region. The region may include
portions of reduced opacity. In some embodiments, the region may include portions of
increased opacity.
[0008]      In some embodiments, the step of creating a region of reduced opacity
may include reducing a number of opacifying layers in the region. The number of
opacifying layers may be reduced evenly across the region. Alternatively, the number
of opacifying layers may differ across the region whilst maintaining an overall
reduction in a total number of opacifying layers in the region.
[0009]      The method may include applying a plurality of opacification layers to a
translucent or transparent base substrate so as to create opacified substrate with a
degree of opacity, and wherein the step of creating a region of reduced opacity
includes varying the density of at least one of the opacifying layers. In one
embodiment, each opacifying layer may be printed onto the base substrate using ink
and for at least one of the opacifying layers, the amount of ink used in the region of
reduced opacity may be less than the amount of ink used outside the region. In one
example, the opacifying layers are applied using gravure printing and the amount or
density of ink used for a given opacifying layer may be expressed in lines per cm. An

                                              3
opacifying layer may be applied having areas of 100 lines/cm corresponding to a
region of reduced opacity, and areas of 50 lines/cm in areas outside the region.
[0010]      In some embodiments, the step of creating a region of reduced opacity
may include varying the thickness of the substrate in the region. In some
embodiments, the step of creating a region of reduced opacity may include reducing
the density of the substrate in the region. Any suitable process may be used to reduce
the thickness and/or density of the substrate. For example, processing including
embossing, etching, engraving and the like, and/or a combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the region of reduced opacity may define a shadow image. In some
embodiments, the first and second visual features combined with the region of the
reduced opacity may define a complete image. In particular, the first and second
visual features may define a see-through device which defines a first incomplete
image. The shadow image in the region of reduced opacity may define a second
incomplete image. The first incomplete image may complement the second
incomplete image to form one complete image.
[0011]     According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
of producing a security device, the method including
            reducing opacity of a first region of a polymer substrate,
           forming a see-through device in a second region of the substrate,
           wherein the first region at least partially overlaps with the second region.
[0012]     According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
producing a security device, the method including
            providing a translucent or transparent base substrate,
            applying opacifying layers to opposite sides of the transparent base
substrate so as to create an opacified substrate having a degree of opacity across the
substrate, wherein at least one of the opacifying layers defines one or more openings
so as to create a region of reduced opacity in the opacified substrate,
           forming a first visual feature on a first side of the substrate,

                                                  4
             forming a second visual feature on a second side of the substrate opposite
the first side,
             wherein at least a portion of the first visual feature or the second visual
feature overlaps with the region of reduced opacity, and
             wherein when the substrate is viewed in transmission, the first and second
visual features complement one another to form a complete image or a portion of a
complete image.
[0013]       According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided a
security document including
             a region of reduced opacity in a polymer substrate,
             a first visual feature on a first side of the substrate,
             a second visual feature on a second side of the substrate opposite the first
side, wherein at least a portion of the first visual feature or the second visual feature
overlaps with the region of reduced opacity, and
             wherein when the substrate is viewed in transmission, the first and second
visual features complement one another to form a complete image or a portion of a
complete image.
[0014]       Opacity may be measured using any suitable instrument. In one example,
a Photovolt 577 contrast ratio meter may be used. In this example, a portion of the
substrate outside the region may have an opacity value of about 77.5 or greater as
measured by the Photovolt 577 contrast ratio meter and the region of reduced opacity
may have an opacity value of 2 to 9 lower than that outside the region.
[0015]       According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a polymer
based security document including
             a region of reduced opacity, and
             a see-through device,
             wherein the region at least partially overlaps with the see-through device.

                                              5
[0016]      The first region may define a shadow image. The shadow image may
complement the see-through device to create a complete image.
[0017]      The shadow image may be created by creating one or more openings in
one or more opacifying layers of an opacified substrate. The one or more openings
may be of any suitable size/shape and positioned in any suitable location in each
layer. In one embodiment, the one or more openings may be the same shape and
size and location. In other embodiments, the one or more openings may each have a
different shape, size and location on the corresponding layer so as to create a
shadow image of varying opacity. The opacity of a shadow image can be varied in
this manner to create a high definition shadow image. The shadow image may
complement a see-through device to create a complete image. The complete image
may incorporate two or more security features.
[0018]      According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided a
method of producing a substrate, the method including
            creating a first region of reduced opacity in a polymer substrate,
            providing a second region on the substrate for locating a see-through
device,
            wherein the first region overlaps with the see-through device.
[0019]      In order that the invention may be more readily understood and put into
practice, one or more preferred embodiments thereof will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
[0020]      Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an
embodiment' means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in
connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
invention. Thus, the appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an
embodiment' in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or
characteristic described herein may be combined in any suitable manner in one or
more combinations.

                                               6
Security Document or Token
[0021]       As used herein, the term security documents and tokens includes all types
of documents and tokens of value and identification documents including, but not
limited to the following: items of currency such as banknotes and coins, credit cards,
cheques, passports, identity cards, securities and share certificates, driver's licenses,
deeds of title, travel documents such as airline and train tickets, entrance cards and
tickets, birth, death and marriage certificates, and academic transcripts.
[0022]       The invention is particularly, but not exclusively, applicable to security
documents or tokens such as banknotes or identification documents such as identity
cards or passports formed from a substrate to which one or more layers of printing
are applied.
Substrate
[0023]       As used herein, the term substrate refers to the base material from which
the security document or token is formed. The base material may be a plastic or
polymeric material including but not limited to polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE),
polycarbonate (PC), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene terephthalate (PET); or a
composite material of two or more materials, such as a laminate of paper and at least
one plastic material, or of two or more polymeric materials.
[0024]       The use of plastic or polymeric materials in the manufacture of security
documents pioneered in Australia has been very successful because polymeric
banknotes are more durable than their paper counterparts and can also incorporate
new security devices and features. One particularly successful security feature in
polymeric banknotes produced for Australia and other countries has been a
transparent area or "window".
Transparent Windows and Half Windows
[0025]       As used herein, the term window refers to a transparent or translucent area
in the security document compared to the substantially opaque region to which
printing is applied. The window may be fully transparent so that it allows the
transmission of light substantially unaffected, or it may be partly transparent or

                                                7
translucent partially allowing the transmission of light but without allowing objects to
be seen clearly through the window area.
[0026]      A window area may be formed in a polymeric security document which has
at least one layer of transparent polymeric material and one or more opacifying layers
applied to at least one side of a transparent polymeric substrate, by omitting at least
one opacifying layer in the region forming the window area. If opacifying layers are
applied to both sides of a transparent substrate a fully transparent window may be
formed by omitting the opacifying layers on both sides of the transparent substrate in
the window area.
[0027]      A partly transparent or translucent area, sometimes referred to as a "half
window", may be formed in a polymeric security document which has opacifying
layers on both sides by omitting the opacifying layers on one side only of the security
document in the window area so that the "half-window" is not fully transparent, but
allows some light to pass through without allowing objects to be viewed clearly
through the half-window.
[0028]      Alternatively, it is possible for the substrate to be formed from an
substantially opaque material, such as paper or fibrous material, with an insert of
transparent plastics material inserted into a cut-out, or recess in the paper or fibrous
substrate to form a transparent window or a translucent half-window area.
[0029]      The term "window" used herein encompasses fully transparent windows,
translucent windows and "half windows".
Opacifyinq layers
[0030]      One or more opacifying layers may be applied to a transparent substrate to
increase the opacity of the security document. An opacifying layer is such that      LT < Lo,
where Lo is the amount of light incident on the document, and        LT is the amount of light
transmitted through the document. An opacifying layer may comprise any one or more
of a variety of opacifying coatings. For example, the opacifying coatings may
comprise a pigment, such as titanium dioxide, dispersed within a binder or carrier of
heat-activated or oxidising cross-linkable polymeric material. Alternatively, a substrate
of transparent plastic material could be sandwiched between opacifying layers of

                                               8
paper or other partially or substantially opaque material to which indicia may be
subsequently printed or otherwise applied.
Security Device or Feature
[0031]      As used herein, the term security device or feature includes any one of a
large number of security devices, elements or features intended to protect the security
document or token from counterfeiting, copying, alteration or tampering. Security
devices or features may be provided in or on the substrate of the security document
or in or on one or more layers applied to the base substrate, and may take a wide
variety of forms, such as security threads embedded in layers of the security
document; security inks such as fluorescent, luminescent and phosphorescent inks,
metallic inks, iridescent inks, photochromic, thermochromic, hydrochromic or
piezochromic inks; printed and embossed features, including relief structures;
interference layers; liquid crystal devices; lenses and lenticular structures; optically
variable devices (OVDs) such as diffractive devices including diffraction gratings,
holograms and diffractive optical elements (DOEs). Diffractive Optical Elements
(DOEs) As used herein, the term diffractive optical element refers to a numerical type
diffractive optical element (DOE). Numerical-type diffractive optical elements (DOEs)
rely on the mapping of complex data that reconstruct in the far field (or reconstruction
plane) a two-dimensional intensity pattern. Thus, when substantially collimated light,
e.g. from a point light source or a laser, is incident upon the DOE, an interference
pattern is generated that produces a projected image in the reconstruction plane that
is visible when a suitable viewing surface is located in the reconstruction plane, or
when the DOE is viewed in transmission at the reconstruction plane. The
transformation between the two planes can be approximated by a fast Fourier
transform (FFT). Thus, complex data including amplitude and phase information has
to be physically encoded in the micro structure of the DOE. This DOE data can be
calculated by performing an inverse FFT transformation of the desired reconstruction
(i.e. the desired intensity pattern in the far field).
Region
[0032]      A region, as used herein, corresponds to an area of a surface of a security
document or a substrate. For example, a first region located on a first side of a

                                              9
substrate is a different region to a second region located on a second side of the
same substrate, even when the two regions are opposite one another. Two regions
can be: opposite, wherein each region is located in the same area of the security
document or substrate but on opposite surfaces; partially opposite, wherein one
region includes a portion opposite all or a portion of the other region; and non
opposite, wherein the regions are entirely not opposite each other.
[0033]      The foregoing embodiments are intended to be illustrative of the invention,
without limiting the scope thereof. The invention is capable of being practised with
various modifications and additions as will readily occur to those skilled in the art.
[0034]       Accordingly, it is to be understood that the scope of the invention is not to
be limited to the exact construction and operation described and illustrated, but only
by the following claims which are intended to include all suitable modifications and
equivalents permitted by the applicable law.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0035]      Figures 1A to 1C illustrate a see-through device for printing on a security
document.
[0036]      Figure 2A is a cross sectional view of a security document embodying a
see-through device in accordance with the prior art.
[0037]      Figures 2B to 2F are cross sectional views of security documents
embodying a see-through device according to embodiments of the invention.
[0038]      Figures 3A to 3C are cross sectional views of security documents
embodying a see-through device according to further embodiments of the invention.
[0039]      Figure 4A is a plan view of the security document of Figure 2A embodying
a see-through device.
[0040]      Figure 4B is a plan view of the security documents shown in Figures 2B,
2C and 2D embodying a see-through device.
[0041]      Figure 4C is a plan view of the security document shown in Figure 2E
embodying a see-through device.

                                              10
[0042]       Figure 4D is a plan view of the security document shown in Figure 2F
embodying a see-through device.
[0043]       Figures 5A and 5B are plan views of security documents according to
further embodiments of the invention.
[0044]       Figure 6A is a plan view of a security document including a shadow image.
[0045]       Figure 6B is a plan view of a security document including the shadow
image as shown in Figure 6A and further including a see-through device
complementing the shadow image to form a complete image according to a further
embodiment of the invention.
[0046]       Figure 6C is a plan view of a security document including a shadow image
similar to the one shown in Figure 6A in which the shadow image includes regions of
varying opacity and further including a see-through device complementing the
shadow image to form a complete image according to yet another embodiment of the
invention.
[0047]       Figure 7 is a flow diagram illustrating a method of producing a security
device according to an embodiment of the invention.
Detailed Description
[0048]      An example see-through device 104 in a banknote is illustrated in Figures
1A to 1C. Figures 1A and 1B respectively illustrate complementary images 100, 102
printed on opposite sides of a banknote in registration. In particular, an incomplete
part of a bug 100 is printed on one side; and a complementary incomplete part of a
bug 102 is printed on a reverse side. The complete image of the bug 104 as
illustrated in Figure 1C can be reconstructed by placing the banknote in transmission.
Special printing equipment, such as a Simultan printing press can be used to create
the related image-elements in precise registration on opposite sides of the security
document using offset printing.
[0049]      As shown in Figure 2A, the cross sectional view of a security document
200a illustrates a see-through device 202 in which visual features 204 on one side of
a substrate 208a is printed in registration with visual features 206 on an opposite side

                                               11
of the substrate 208a. A shown in Figure 4A, when the security document 200a is
held against the light (i.e. viewed in transmission), the visual features 206 on a
reverse side of the substrate 208a shows through (in suitable illumination conditions)
and a complete image of the see-through device 202 including visual features 204,
206 can be seen.
[0050]       Figure 2A and 4A illustrate a known security document 200a embodying a
see-through device 202, which can often be difficult to identify, particularly if the
opacity of the substrate 208a is high.
[0051]       Figure 2A illustrates a polymer substrate 208a including a transparent base
substrate 210 to which a plurality of opacifying layers 212 have been applied. Each of
the opacifying layers 212 is printed using coloured ink to increase the opacity of the
opacified substrate 208a. Any suitable coloured ink may be used. In one embodiment,
the opacifying layers 212 are printed using white ink. The opacity of substrate 208a
increases with application with each additional pacification layer 212. Figure 2A
illustrates that the substrate 208a has two opacifying layers 212 on one side of the
substrate 208a and three opacifying layers 212 on a reverse/opposite side of the
substrate 208a. In other embodiments, an opacified substrate can have any suitable
number of opacifying layers on each side of the substrate.
[0052]       The opacity of a substrate 208a can be measured using special
instrumentation such as a Photovolt 577 Contrast Ratio Meter. Typically, for
banknotes, a minimum level of opacity will be required to prevent images printed on
one side of the banknote from undesirably showing to the opposite side. For example,
Guardian@ banknotes typically have a minimum opacity value of 77.5 as measured by
a Photovolt 577 Contrast Ratio Meter. High opacity substrates may have an opacity
value of roughly 90 to 95.
[0053]       The opacity of each opacifying layer may change depending on the type,
colour and amount of ink used for each layer. In one example, a particular type of
white ink is used and the following opacity values as shown in Table 1 below were
obtained using a Photovolt 577 Contrast Ratio Meter.
 Table 1: Opacity values for polymer substrate having opacifying layers applied using white ink.

                                            12
              Number of       Opacity at       Opacity at      opcrease in
              opacifying       higher ink      lower ink           additional
                layers          laydown         laydown        opacifying layer
                  0                2.7             2.7
                   1              60.7             53               50 to 58
                  2               71.7            65.1              11 to 13
                  3               77.7            70.1               5 to 6
                  4               81.7            74.4               4 to 5
                  5               84.5            77.2               2 to 3
[0054]      As shown in Table 1 above, the opacity of the sample of clear polymer
substrate is 2.7. The opacity of a polymer substrate having a single opacifying layer
may range from 53 to 60.7 depending on the thickness of ink applied in the opacifying
layer. Similarly, the opacity of a polymer substrate having two opacifying layers may
range from 65.1 to 71.7; the opacity of a polymer substrate having three opacifying
layers may range from 70.1 to 77.7; the opacity of a polymer substrate having four
opacifying layers may range from 74.4 to 81.7; the opacity of a polymer substrate
having five opacifying layers may range from 77.2 to 84.5. Higher or lower opacity
values may be achieved at differing ink thicknesses.
[0055]       In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, the opacity for a region
of reduced opacity 214 of a five-layerd substrate with an opacity of 85 may range from
60 to 83 as measured by a Photovolt 577 Contrast Ratio Meter. Moreover, the region
of reduced opacity 214 may provide a reduction in opacity of roughly between 2 to 35
when compared to the opacity of a surrounding region of the substrate.
[0056]      As shown in Figure 2B, a region of reduced opacity 214 is created in
security document 200b according to one embodiment of the invention. In this
embodiment, the region of reduced opacity 214 is created by defining an opening in
an outermost opacifying layer 212 on one side of the substrate 208b (also known as
'reversing out' an opacifying layer of the substrate). Now referring to Figure 4B, which
illustrates a plan view of the security document 200b. As the see-through device 202
is printed in the region of reduced opacity 214, when the security document 200b is
viewed in transmission, the see-through device 202 is easier to identify when
compared to the security document 200a as shown in Figures 2A and 4A, under the
same illumination conditions.

                                             13
[0057]       Figures 2C and 2D illustrate security documents 200c, 200d according to
further embodiments of the invention. In Figure 2C, an opening is defined in an inner
opacifying layer 212 on one side of the substrate 208c to create the region of reduced
opacity 214. In Figure 2D, an opening is defined in an outermost opacifying layer 212
on a reverse side of the substrate 208d. Similar to the security document 200b in
Figure 2B, as the total number of opacifying layers 212 in the region 214 of substrates
208c, 208d is also reduced from five to four, the same opacity reduction affect can be
achieved as illustrated in Figure 4B, thereby allowing the see-through device 202
printed within the region 214 to be more easily identified. The opacity value in the
region 214 of Figure 4B may be reduced by roughly 2 to 3 as measured by a
Photovolt 577 Contrast Ratio Meter.
[0058]       Figures 2E and 2F illustrate that the opacity in the region 214 can be
further reduced by defining an opening in more than one opacifying layer 212. For
example, an opening is defined in each of two outermost opacifying layers 212 of the
substrate 208e in Figure 2E. Figure 4C illustrates that as the see-through device 202
is printed in the region 214 in which opacity is further reduced, the device 202 is even
more easily identified when the substrate 208e is viewed in transmission.
[0059]       In the security document 200f as shown in Figure 2F, an opening is defined
on an outermost opacifying layer 212 on one side of the substrate 208f and two
outermost opacifying layers 212 on a reverse side of the substrate 208f, creating a
region 214 in which opacity is further reduced. Figure 4D illustrates that as the see
through device 202 is printed in the region 214 in which opacity is further reduced, the
device 202 can be even more easily identified when the substrate 208f is viewed in
transmission.
[0060]       In the security document 200g as shown in Figure 3A, the region of
reduced opacity 214 can include varying degrees of opacity, for example to create a
shadow image as further described below with reference to Figures 6A to 6C.
Elaborating further, in the region of reduced opacity 214, an outermost upper
opacifying layer 212 defines an opening, an intermediate underside opacifying layer
212' also defines an opening substantially aligned with the opening in the outermost
upper layer 212, and an outermost underside opacifying layer 212" defines three
openings each having a different size and position relative to those in the other layers

                                             14
212, 212'. In this manner, a high definition shadow image 216 can be created by
varying opacity within the region 214 by defining openings of different sizes, shapes
and positions in each opacifying layer 212. In the embodiment in Figure 3A, the see
through device 202 is positioned in a portion of the region 214 having the lowest
opacity so as to facilitate identification.
[0061]      In the security document 200h as shown in Figure 3B, the region of
reduced opacity 214 includes two separate portions 218a, 218b in which the opacity
of the substrate 208h is reduced. In particular, an outermost opacifying layer 212
defines two openings 218a, 218b and visual features 206 of the see-through device
202 are located entirely within the respective openings 218a, 218b. Visual features
204 on an opposite side of the substrate 208h may partially overlap with the openings
218a, 218b. Therefore in security document 200h, the see-through device 202
partially overlaps with the region of reduced opacity 214. The opacity value in the
region 214 of Figure 3B may be reduced by roughly 2 to 3 as measured by a
Photovolt 577 Contrast Ratio Meter.
[0062]      In the security document 200i as shown in Figure 3C, the region of reduced
opacity 214 is similar to that of security document 200d as shown in Figure 2D.
However, at least portion 220 of visual features 206 of the see-through device 202 is
located outside the region 214 of reduced opacity. A portion of visual features 204
may also be located outside region 214. The opacity value in the region 214 of Figure
3C may be reduced by roughly 2 to 3 as measured by a Photovolt 577 Contrast Ratio
Meter.
[0063]      Figures 2B to 3C only illustrate some of the non-exhaustive example
embodiments of security documents 200 of the present invention. Many other
different ways to create one or more regions of reduced opacity 214, shadow images
and relative positions between the see-through device(s) 202 and the region(s) 214
are possible without departing from the scope of the present invention.
[0064]      The security document 500a in Figure 5A further illustrates that the see
through device 202 may not be positioned entirely with the region of reduced opacity
502. Indeed, the see-through device 202 is partially within the region of reduce

                                             15
opacity 502. In other words, portions of the see-through device 202 of security
document 500a overlap with the region of reduced opacity 502.
[0065]      The security document 500b in Figure 5B further illustrates that the region
of reduce opacity 504 includes two portions 504a, 504b. Visual features 206 on a
reverse side of the security document 500b are formed within respective portions
504a, 504b whilst visual features 204 are outside the region of reduced opacity 504.
In other embodiments, portions of the visual features 206 may be formed within the
region of reduce opacity 504 whilst some portions of the visual feature 206 may be
formed outside the region 504.
[0066]      In the embodiments described with reference to Figures 5A and 5B, the
improved ability to identify the see-through device 202 can still be achieved. In
addition, the region of reduced opacity 504 may complement the design of the see
through device 202.
[0067]      Figures 6B to 6C illustrate a security document 600 according to an
embodiment of the invention in which the region of reduced opacity 602 defines a
shadow image and complements a see-through device to form a complete image.
[0068]      Figure 6A illustrates that the region of reduced opacity can define a
shadow image 602. In the example of Figure 6A, the shadow image 602 includes
multistorey buildings. For example, the shape of an opening in one or more
opacification layers defines the features of the shadow image 602.
[0069]      As shown in Figure 6B, a see-through device 608 includes visual features
604 formed on a front side of the security document 600b and complementary visual
features 606 on a reverse side of the security document 600b. In transmission, it can
be seen that the visual features 604, 606 are formed in substantially perfect
registration to provide a portion of a complete image (i.e. the windows of a building in
the shadow image 602). The see-through device 608 is also formed in registration
with the shadow image 602 to complement one another so as to form a complete
image. The complete image in Figure 6B includes a shadow image 602 of multistorey
buildings and the windows of one of the buildings are represented by the see-through
device 608.

                                              16
[0070]       The security document 600c as illustrated in Figure 6C further includes an
additional region of reduced opacity 610 which overlaps with the shadow image 602.
In particular, the additional region of reduced opacity 610 defines one of the buildings
in the shadow image 602 encompassing the see-through device 608. The opacity of
region 610 is lower than that of the shadow image 602 further facilitating the
identification of the see-through device 608.
[0071]       A method 700 of producing a see-through device 608 on a security
document (e.g. security document 600c as shown in Figure 6C) according to an
embodiment of the invention will now be described with reference to Figure 7.
[0072]       At step 702, a design for a security document 600c is created. For
banknotes, the design will typically include a variety of different visual features
including different security devices such as shadow images and see-through devices.
[0073]       At step 704, the visual features and security devices are divided into two
categories - substrate-based security features and printed visual features (including
printed security features). For instance, a shadow image is a substrate based security
feature as it is created by defining one or more openings in opacifying layers 212 of
the substrate 208; and a see-through device 608 is a printed security feature which is
printed onto the substrate 208 after it is formed, for example using offset printing.
[0074]       The substrate-based security features are formed as part of the substrate
manufacturing process as described in method steps 708 to 714, and the printed
visual features are printed onto the formed substrate as part of a separate printing
process carried out using security printer(s) as described in method steps 706 and
716 to 720. The substrate manufacturing equipment and the security printing
equipment may be located in the same facility, or at different facilities.
[0075]       At step 706, the printing plates and/or rollers at the security printing facility
are designed and prepared based on the security document design created in step
702. In embodiments where the visual features are printed in layers, the design for
each printing layer is determined and the printing plates and/or rollers are prepared
accordingly. For example, Simultan printing equipment is prepared according to the
design of the see-through device 608. In some embodiments, other printing

                                               17
equipment such as intaglio printing equipment may be used to create the see-through
device 608. In some embodiments, a commercial offset press may be used.
[0076]       At step 708, the opacifying layers 212 are designed at the substrate
manufacturing facility. In particular, the shape, size and location of the one or more
openings in the opacifying layers 212 required to define a shadow image 602 (which
may include additional regions of further reduced opacity 610) are determined.
[0077]       At step 710, the transparent base substrate is produced. Typically, the
transparent base substrate is produced in reels.
[0078]       At step 712, the opacifying layers 212 designed in step 708 are applied to
the transparent base substrate to create an opacified substrate defining the shadow
images 602.
[0079]       At step 714, the opacified substrate defining the shadow images 602 is cut
into a plurality of sheets for further processing at the security printer(s).
[0080]       At step 716, the see-through device 608 is printed on both sides of each
sheet of opacified substrate such that at least a portion of the see-through device 608
overlaps with one or more of the shadow images 602 in the substrate. Other security
devices and visual features are also printed onto each sheet of substrate.
[0081]       At step 718, each sheet of substrate is cut into a plurality of security
documents such as banknotes.
[0082]       At step 720, the security documents undergo further processing, including
piling, sorting and quality checking procedures, for example, to check whether the
visual features 604, 606 are printed in substantially perfect registration. Security
documents which do not pass the quality checking procedures are removed as
spoilage.
[0083]       The foregoing embodiments are intended to be illustrative of the invention,
without limiting the scope thereof. The invention is capable of being practised with
various modifications and additions as will readily occur to those skilled in the art.
[0084]        Accordingly, it is to be understood that the scope of the invention is not to
be limited to the exact construction and operation described and illustrated, but only

                                          18
by the following claims which are intended to include all suitable modifications and
equivalents permitted by the applicable law.

                                                 19
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.       A method of producing a security device, the method including
         creating a region of reduced opacity in a polymer substrate,
         forming a first visual feature on a first side of the substrate,
         forming a second visual feature on a second side of the substrate opposite the
first side,
         wherein at least a portion of the first visual feature or the second visual feature
overlaps with the region of reduced opacity, and
         wherein when the substrate is viewed in transmission, the first and second
visual features complement one another to form a complete image or a portion of a
complete image.
2.       A method of claim 1, wherein the step of creating a region of reduced opacity
includes reducing a number of opacifying layers in the region.
3.       A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the region of
reduced opacity defines a shadow image.
4.       A method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first and
second visual features combined with the region of the reduced opacity defines a
complete image.
5.       A security document including
         a region of reduced opacity,
         a first visual feature on a first side of a polymer substrate,
         a second visual feature on a second side of the substrate opposite the first
side, wherein at least a portion of the first visual feature or the second visual feature
overlaps with the region of reduced opacity, and

                                          20
        wherein when the substrate is viewed in transmission, the first and second
visual features complement one another to form a complete image or a portion of a
complete image.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                  <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                !        "# ! $  "
           "  !            "# "
                      "!.
           (/     " " (         "#
           ('   "          "#
 #      "!
                                                ! %     "& #
 "
 ",
   "
 "   "!
                                     '   "   !          "#       "
                                   &       !   ! $!              (" !
                                    )          !"     )        &    "
                                      "%   "        "       "!         "#
                                              !   $ "
                                       "    %!             !          "#
                                              !   $      "

