                                     ABSTRACT
A system and method for detecting theft of power in an electrical distribution
grid. The system may include at least two communicating meters which form a
transformer area network, a mechanism for measuring current and voltage at the
meters, a mechanism for transmitting the measured current and voltage data to a
data center with access to an electric grid database, and a mechanism that analyzes
the transmitted data to infer unauthorized taking of electrical power.

            1/6
o-E  Eu
    wrN 0
        0 0

        NON-TECHNICAL LOSSES IN A POWER DISTRIBUTION GRID
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0000]    This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No 2014277983, which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No.
61/834,567, filed June 13, 2013, the disclosure of both of which are incorporated herein
by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    The present invention is directed toward applications of on-grid
communications for optimizing electrical distribution, and specifically for real-time
identification and location of nontechnical losses occurring in a service transformer
area network.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]    Electrical Distribution Substations contain one or more Substation
Transformers, which step down the voltage from high transmission line levels
(typically 130kV to 700kV) to the medium voltage levels (typically from 4kV to about
35kV) at which power is distributed to consumers within a distribution service area. At
the edge of the Distribution Grid are a number of Service Transformers, which
transform the medium voltage of the distribution grid to the low voltages (in the US,
typically 120, 208, 240, 277, or 480) required for commercial, industrial, and
residential consumers. Other voltages in addition to some of these can be used
elsewhere in the world. Each Service Transformer powers one or more metered ads. A
load can be a dwelling, a commercial or industrial building, an element of municipal
infrastructure such as a series of street lamps, or agricultural apparatus such as
irrigation systems.
                                              1

[0003]    Other than the wires connecting a consumer load and the associated meter to a
service transformer, the service transformer is the outermost element of the distribution
grid before the power is actually delivered to a consumer. A meter is typically attached
at the point where the power from the service transformer is delivered to the consumer.
Service transformers can be three-phase, dual-phase, or single phase, as can meters.
Herein the collection of electrical apparatus inclusive from a service transformer to the
collection of at least two communicating electrical meters is referred to as a
Transformer Area Network (TAN). A TAN can have a radial topology, such as is
common in the US, or it can have a linear or "bus" topology, as is more common in
Europe and elsewhere in the world.
                                             2

{0004] Traditdonallyedig meters was one of the largest operational costs incurred by
electrical utiities. Original electric meters were analog devices with an optical read-out
that had to be manually examined monthly to drive the utility billing process      Beginning
in 0he 1979s, mechams for digitizing meter data and automating its collection began to
be deployed, These mechan lims evolved from walk-by or drive-by systems where the
meter would broadcast its current reading using a short-rangce adic signal, which was
received by a device carried by the meter reader, These early systems were known as
Automated Meter Reading systems or AMRs. Later, a variety of purpose-built data
collection networks, commonly employing a combination of short-rang RF repeaters in
a mesh configuration with collection points equipped with broadband backhaul means for
transporting aggregated readings began to be deployed
[00053]These networks were capable of two-way communication between the "metering
head-end" at a utility service center and the meters at the edge of this data collection
network, which is tenrally called an Advanced Metering Infrastructure or AML AMIs
can colect and store readings frequently, typicahy as often as every 15 minutes, and can
repon them nearly that often, They can read an meter on demand provided that this
feature is used sparingly and can connect or disconneet any meter on demand as we IL
AMI meters can pass signals to consumer devices for the purpose of energy conservation,
demand management, and variable-rate billing, Because the AMI network is separate
 fntom the power distrRmuion grid except for the intersection at the meters, AMI meters are
neither aware of nor sensie to changes in the gr       opoogy or certain conditions on the
grid. Nonetheless, the introduction of AMI is geneally considered to be the beginning of
the distribution Smart Grid, Additionally, because of the metsh architecture typically used
 in the AWtis in the United States, the available bandwidth for an individual electrical
 meter to scud its own data is quite limited.
 [0006]The total billable kilowatt-hOurs produced by a typical.lecrmcal     distribution grid
anywhere in the world is substantia y less than the actual power distributed, as measured
at a distribution substation, over the bng period. The loss of power can be classified
 into two groups, Technical losses resu from the overall impedance of the distribution
 infrastructure, from power-factor mismatch between what the population of loads
                                             3

requires and what the grid produces at each load point, and from the fact that udlities
oversupply voyage to ensure that power sags will not occur during unpredictable peak
loads. Utilkiies can work to minimize these technical losses, but some technical losses are
unavoidable,
[0007]Non-echnical losses of actual power-hours (as opposed to revenue) resudt from
power theft by consumers who avoid or subvert the metering process by tampering wtb
meters or by tapping power lines above the metered Ioad points, Non-technical revenue
hnsses also include non-payment of bills by customers, and accounting errors by utilities.
However, these types of revenue losses are addressed by Meter Data Management
systems integrated with the Advanced Metering Infrastucture. These automated systems
have the capability to prevent clerical errors, to immnediately cut of,service to non-paying
customers, and to require customers with poor payment histories to be on a pay-in
advance billing plan. Because AMIs provide little or no information about the grid
schematic relationship of one electrical meter to another and the relationship between the
electrical meter and the service transformer supplying it with power, AMIs are of litde
value in pinpointing the source of power theft Some Smart Meters can detect and report
tampering. On the other hand, the absence of meter readers from neighborhoods reduces
the chance that illegal taps will be seen and reported.,
[000)The social and financial costs of power theft are highly varable. In the
developing wodd, these costs are quite high: sometimes exceeding 50% of power
delivered from substations, In lndia, for example, the major private utilities (Reliance
and Tata) repor non-technical losses around 10%, but the state-owned udities have
losses exceeding 30% in most cases, according to the ndias Maharashtra Electreiy
Regulation Commission (MERC).
[0009)in the developed world, losses from theft represent a relative small percentage
of the total generation cost. In the Unied States, losses frm theft have traditionally been
estimated at one to three percent of revenue, though this figure increases during difficult
economic times,
[0010)Power theft represents a safety and quality-of-service issue as well as an
economic issue. Jury-rigging power taps is dangerous and often results in injury and
even death, Additionally, the jury-rigged taps represent a fire hazard. Most significandy,
                                            4

the resutant unpredictable loading of the distribution grid can cause transformer fires and
explosions that can result not only in dangerous situations but in major power outagecs
(0011lPrior art methods for detecting power theft can be divided into three categories,
One category involves comparing voltage and current at a meter with voltage and current
at a point of origin fior delivery, such as the service distribution transformer for a
neighborhood. The technical losses due to the resistance of the low voltage line between
the point of origin and each meter are presumed to be less than a predetermined amount,
so that any difference in power loss above the predetemrined amount can be presumed to
be due either to theft or to line defects. United States Patent Application Publication No,
2012/0265355, titled Sysm and Method                 gn            i    a
                                                                        IaM   ijgigf
                              m        g     (incorporated herein by reference) describes a
system of this sort, wherein intelligent software agents at the service transformer collect
measurements both at the transfomier and from other instruments located at or
incorporated in the electric meters, Theft detection is cited as one of the applications of
this system., However, systems involving placing agents and instruments at the
transformer are less desirable than would be a system that did not require any devices at
the transfonmer, because transformers are far less physically accessible than meter
sockets, and modifying them by adding instWuentation inside the transformer housing or
on the high-voltage side of the transformer can be costly and even dangerous
[0012]A second category involves measuring current and voltage outside the meter of a
metered load, and inside the premises of the metered load, if more power is being used
on the premises than is being delivered via the meter then either power is being locally
generated on the premises, or the meter is being bypassed. Methods of this sort ae
problematic for utilities because a service utility typically does not have access to data
from inside the metered load, The consumer would have to agree to the placement of
devices inside the premises,
[001 3A third category involves detecting the instantaneous changes in power usage or
minor outages caused by tampering with the distribution lines in order to install an
unmetered tap. This category of mechanism falls short because tampering can be masked
by larger events such as a legitimate outage or interruption in service, and because it
would creak many false positives,
                                              A"I

SUMMARY OF TE INVENTION
    [00143}The present invention is an apparatus and methods ot real-time or near-real-time
    detecting and reporting of power theft in such a way that the tamper point may be
    determined to have occurred on the low-voltage side of a specific service transformer, In
    cases of meter tampering the specific meter or meters involved may be identified., The
    present invention does not require instrumentation of the transfoner at the service
    delivery point (service transformer.), All instruments and the intelligent agents which
    perform and collect the measurements and process the collected data to find evidence of
    power theft are located where instruments and intelligence would reside anyway: at the
    electrical meter. This is beneficial in that the meter socket is typically easily accessible,
    and because a smart meter already contains memory and processors for hosting software
    agents, already has the capability of making many of the measurements used by the
    methods of the present invention, and because most smart meters are designed to
    accommodate an add itional circuit board where the native instruments, conmmcauon
    capabilities,. and/or memory and processing capabilities are insufficient to support the
    methods described herein.
    [0015)]United States Patent Application No, 13/871 944, titled A Systemand Method for
    infeing Schematic and Tpolgia Pperie4s of an Electrical Ditribution Orid
    incorporated herein by reference, describes augmenting Smart Meters with long-range
    (Edge-to-Substation) on-grid transmitters, and also short-range (low voftage, local to the
    service transformer) on grid transceivers. A Smart Meter having both short-range and
    long-range on-grid transmission capability is called a Remote Hub. A Smart Meter
    having only short-range on-grid capability is caNed a Subordinate Remote, The teot
    Remotes is used to refer collectively to both Subordinate Remotes and Remote Hubs, A
    service transformer having a Remote Hub and zero or more Subordinate Remotes is
    defined as a Transformer Area Network, or TAN. Further, that application discloses a
    method for determining the feeder and phase supplying a Remote Hub with power based
    on characteristics of a long-range message transmitted from the Remote Hub.
    [0016)]US Patent Application No, I 3/8883102, titled Methos for Discpverintz
    Pii          ,         i and AdministerinCommication Devices in a Traasformer
    Area      magr   also incorporated herein by reference, teaches a method of ensuring that
                                                6

all Remote Hubs and Subordinate Remotes in a TAN ar, in fact, supplied with power by
the same service transftorner, and, in the case of a multi-phase transformer, determining
which Remotes are on the same phase as a Remote Hub and which Remotes are on a
different phase. Additionally, US Patent Application No. 13/911,849, tided A System
and Method for Inferdna Schematic Relationships between Load Points and Service
Instbnters and incorporated herein by reference, describes a method for identifying
the specific service transformer and its geospatial coordinates which supply a given meter
socket, and incorporating the association and coordinates into a map of the distribution
grid, The utility already knows at least the street address, if not the precise geospatial
coordinates, of every meter. Using the information obtained from the systems and
methods in the above-referenced applications, the physical and schematic origin of a
report from a Remote Hub, and the physical and schematic extent of the Transformer
Area Network the Remote Hub represents, may be very precisely defined, These
inventions teach a Transformer Area Network Architecture which is master-slave in
nature, wherein one Remote, typically the Remote Hub, contains most of the intelligence,
and polla simpler agents on the Subordinate Remotes both to organize the TAN, and to
implement applications on the TAN. The system and methods of the present invention
are primarily described in temis of such a TAN organization,       -owever, a matersiave
network organization is only one of the possible network organization suitable for
hosting the present invention. For example, a peer-to-peer transformer area actwork is
also suitable. A wider peer-to-peer network, such as an AMI mesh network, might also
be suitable given that a) the nodes in the network have sufficient information to pattiion
themselves logically by transformer area, and b) that there is sufficient bandwidth for
sharing the measurements taken by the measurement agents of the present invention, as
described herein below.
[001TJ, The present invention provides a method fhr a Remote Fub in communication
with at least one Subordinate Remote, each Remote operable to measure and store
voltage at the meter and current passing frm the meter to the metered load, to identify
indications that power theft is occurring in the TAN, without placing apparatus either at
the service transformer of the TAN or inside the premises of the loads powered by the
TAN. For this purpose, the TAN comprises at least two nodes, such as one Remote Hub
                                            7

     and one or more Subordinate Remotes, on each phase of the TAN Further, every load
     (metered service point) on the TAN has a Remote (or another type of conmunicaring
     meter) if complete theft protection is to be achieved. The method can be employed with
     some meters not having a Remote, but some thefts may go undetected in that case,
     depending on the topology of the TAN and the locaton of the unauthorized tap with
     respect to the communicating meters. Methods for inferring the existence and location of
     illegal taps that do not require taking measurements at the service transformer of the TAN
     are taught. Avoiding the need to take measurements at the service transformer is
     desirable because the cost of only adding instrumentation at the meters is significantly
     lower than the cost of adding instmmentation at both the meter and the transformer, as is
     the cost of maintaining the network when all instruments and intelligence reside at the
     meter only. Avoiding the need to place apparatus inside the premises of the metered
     service point is desirable because the consent of the consumer is required to place
     apparatus inside the premises, and because maintenance of equipment inside the premises
     is typically outside the charter of the utility
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OFTHE DRAWINGS
     [0018]The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and form a pan of the
     specification, illustrate the embodiments of the present invention and, together w-th the
     description, serve to explain the principles of the invention, In the drawings:
     [00193}Figure 1 illustrates a radial-topology transformer area, with an above-ground
     transformer and power lines and three metered premises.
     [0020]Figure 2 illustrates a bus-topology transforier area with a pad-mounted
     transformer, underground power lines, and three metered premises along a sinlIe tap,
     [00211Figure 3 illustrates a radial-topology transformer area with a pad-mounted
     transformer, underground power lines, and three metered premises each with its own tap.
     [0022) Figure 4 illustrates the area of Figure 1 enhanced to form a Transformer Area
     Network by the addition of a Remote Hub and to Subordinate Remotes.
     [00233Figure 5 shows the Transformer Area Network of Figure 4 with the addition of an
     illegal uunetered tap used to power a greenhouse.
     [0024] Figure 6 shows the electrical detail of a radial Transfbnner Area Network like that
     of Figures 4 and 5, with an arbitrary number of metered premises (N'odes) N

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     [00253 Refer to Figure 1,which illustrates a typical single-hase pole-mounted
     transformer 101 connected via aerial power lines 102 to residences 10$. In the United
     States and many other locales, this is a typical configuration, especially in older areas.
     Power lines to residences are typically attached to the caves of the roof- with the power
     lines traveing downward to the meters 104 in conduit on the exterior of the residences
     103. Figure 2, by contrast, illustrates a bus topology for the transfonner area, which is
     more typical in other parts of the world than in the United States, In Figure 2, a pad
     mounted rransformer 201 connects via a linear buried line 202 connected to residences
     203,204, and 205 at meters 206,207, and 208 respectively. This topology is common in
     Europe and elsewhere in the world. A typical installation might serve many more meters
     than shown: the average number of meters per single-phase transformer in the US is
     approximately six(6), but the European average is dozens. Figure 3 shows a typical US
     buried-cable installation, wherein pad-mouned transformer 301is connected radially via
     buried cable 302 to residences 303 at meters 304. These three basic configurations, with
     minor local variations and multi-phase variations for industrial and commercial
     applications, represent most electrical distribution networks worldwide, The present
     invention works with minor variations on al" three of these cmnimon topologies, as is
     taught herein below. For the purpose of this teaching, each phase of a three-phase
     transformer can be considered as a separate TAN, even though, as described in
     13/888,102, a three-phase transformer area may actually be organized as a single TAN,
     but wherein the phase of each node (eg. Remote) in the TAN is known, and Edge-t
     Substation transmissions from the TAN are sent on the phase to which they pertain,
     [0026Refer now to Fiagure 4,. where the transformer area of Figure I has been converted
     to a Transformer Area Network by substituting forithe ordinary meters in Figure I two
     Subordinate Remotes 402 and 404, and one Remote Hub 403. The clocks of the
     communicating meters of the Transformer Area Network have been synchronized to
     within a known tolerance, as described in 131871,944, Service Transformer 401 does not
     contain any added communication equipment or instruments, and is identical with the
                                                 9

Service Transformer of Figure 1, Note that service pointresidence 405 has nearby an
unpowered outbuilding 406 such as a ban.
[00271n one embodiment of the invention, a measurement agent resides on each of
Remotes 402, 404, and 403. Each agent periodically measures the delivered voltage V
and flowing current Iat its service point, A monitoring agent which may reside on
Remote Hub 403 periodically collects the time-stamped current and voltage
measurements from Subordinate Remotes 402 and 404 and frum its own measurement
agent The period of the monitoring agent is not required to be the same as the period of
the measurement agent;, but the time at which the measurements are taken is
synchronized to the closest tolerance possible given the capabilities of the TAN. Both
periods are very small with respect to the time scale of events in a typical AMI network.,
wherein, for example, meter readings may be transmitted only every fifteen minutes or
even less frequently. The monitoring agent executes a sofware algorithm that compares
current and voltage measurements taken at the difterent meters at the same time and uses
them to infer when an unmetered flow of current is occurring between the transformer
and one or more of the metered service points,
[0028]In Figure 5, an unrmetered tap 507 has been added at premise 505, electrically
between transformer 501 and meter 504. The tap has been used to electrify outbuilding
506, Not only do such taps cause monetary losses for the utility, at peak load times they
may create a danger of transformer fires and explosions because the TAN as a w         may
                                                                                    IhoC
be drawing more power than the rated maximum of the traosfrmer.
[0029)Figure 6 provides electrical detail of a radial Transformer Area Network such as
that of Figures 4 and 5. The TAN of Figure 6 contains at least two metered service
points, or Nodes, herein labeled I .N    Power source 601 supples transforner 607 with
power at a medium voltage, which is stepped dowin by transformer 607 to the low voltage
range accepted by the meters in the transfmoner area, here represented by meter 627 in
Node 1(605) and meter 629 in Node N(610), Current 604 represents current flowing
front the power source due to all the loads on the grid served by power source 601.
impedance 603 represents the impedance of the medium-voltage grid. The voltage 606 on
the low side of transformer 607 fluctuates with changes in voltage 602, impedance 603,
and current 604. None of these quantities are constant, measureable, or known to the
                                          10

software agents at the meters (such as 627 and 629), but voltage 602 may be expected to
vary around a nominal value within a known range of acceptable values,. For example, a
typical nominal value for voltage 602 might be 134KV in the United States (though
others are possible), and a typical nominal value for voyage 606 might be 240V, though
again others are possible, These nominal values may be known to the software agents,
(0030]Consider now the components in the rectangle 605 representing Node L. Node I
comprises the apparatus dehvering power from service transformer 607 to meter 627,
lIteresting measurable quantities are marked on the diagram, Impedance 616 represents
the legitimate metered load of the premise of Node I, which may vary over time
according to what appliances and devices are in use on the premise. Point 626 is not an
actual piece of equipment, but represents an arbitrary place on the power line from
transformer 607 to meter 627 where an illegal tap might be installed, Inpedance 612,
which is normally extremely large when no theft is occurring, represents a potential
unauthorized, unmetered load, Impedances609 and 613 represent the normal impedance
of the power line from tansformer 607 to meter 627, Voltage 611 represents the votage
at hypothetical tap point 626. None of these quantifies are known to or measureable by
the software agents residing at meter 627, Current 614 and voltage 615 are measured
periodically by the measurement agent residing at meter 627 and shared on the TAN by
the communication equipment at meter 627. Regardless of the network architecture of
the TAN, the sharing is always conducted in such a way that the identity of the meter
from which the measurements originate and the time the measurements were taken is
known to any receiver of the messages in which the measurements are transmitted. Note
that element 622 of Figure 6 is not a feature of the TANA but is an ellipsis indicating that
an arbitrary number of additional Nodes could exist between Node 1 605 and Nbde N
610,
(0031]SiMilarly, consider the components in the rectagrle 620 representing Node N
This is the apparatus delivering power from service transformer 607 to meter 629.
Impedance 625 represents the legitimate metered load of the premise of Node N, which
may vary over time according to what appliances and devices are in use on the premise.
Point 628 is not an actual feature of the TAN, but represents an arbitrary place on the
power line from transformer 607 to meter 629 where an illegal tap might be installed
                                           11

Impedance 623, which is normally extremely large when no theh is occurring, represents
a possible unauthorized, unmetered load, Impedances 6g and 620 represent the normal
impedance of the power ite from transformer 607 to meter 629. Voltage 619 represents
the voyage at hypothetical tap point 628. None of these quantities are known to or
measureable by the software agents residing at meter 629. Current 621 and voltage 624
are measured periodically by the measurement agent residing at meter 629 and shared on
the TAN by the communication equipment at meter 629
tOO32JFor the purposes of the algorithmuof t     monitoring agent, it does not matter
whether meter 629, meter 627, or the meter of another Node between I and N has the
Remote Hub and which meters have Subordinate Remotes; Ideed, as is noted herein
above, another type of TAN communication entirely may be employed, as long as it
provides sufficient bandwidth for all the meters of the TAN to share their measurements
within a suiciendy small period. The TAN may host at least one monitoring agent
somewhere on the TAN and a measuring agent at each communicating meter. With some
network architectures, it may be more effective to host a monitoring agent in every node.
Alternatively, the work of the monitoring agent may be distributed among multiple
communicating meters, If the monitoring agent dots not reside on a meter having the
capability to send a wide-area message such as an Edge-o-Substation message, then the
monitoring agent must transmit a command to a wide-areaenabled device to transmit the
anomaly report.
[0033Suppose that an unauthorized load represented by impedance 612 is now attached
at point 626. Voltage 611 will drop because more current (the current drawn. by the
unauthorized load at 612) is flowing through impedance 609. This will also cause a drop
in voltage 61$. However, the current 614 flowtng through impedance 613 does not drop
correspondingly. A measurement agent at meter 627, able to measure only current 614
and voltage 615, will not be able to infer whether the drop in voltage 615 is due simply to
a drop in voltage 6O6, or whether it is caused by a then represented by a drop in voyage
611 and a decrease in impedance 612 (which ought to always be very hge). However,
consider the observations made by a measurement agent at meter 629, For simplicity,
assume that impedance 623 in Node N (610) is properly large     -- no power is being stolen
in Node N, A measurement agent at meter 629 will observe a drop in voltage 624 due to
                                           12

the drop in voltage 606. A monitoring agent can use the measured currents 614 and 621
at the meters 627 and 629 respectively (and others, if there are more communicating
nodes in the TAN) to estimate the proper voltage drop due to each metered load, Once
the effects of the metered loads (616,624) have been removed, the adjusted magnitudes
of the voltages measured at each meter can be compared Even though there will be small
differences in the line impedance between the transformer 607 and each meter, these are
expected to be negligible, (In this example, compare impedances 609+613 to meter 627
with impedances 618+620 to meter 629.) If one meter, in this example 627, sees a greater
adjusted voltage drop than the other meters, within a tolerance representing normal
differences in the litie impedance, then it is to be expected that an nmnetered load exists
between that meter and transformer 607,
[0034)Further, this method of comparing current and voltage from each available
"viewpoint" detects theft in the TAN even if there are multiple theft points. Even if there
were an unmetered load attached betwtn every meter and the transformer, unless the
impedances 612, 623, etc. due to unauthorized loads were identical at al times, then the
theft points could still be inferred by a monitoring agent with access to the current and
voltage measurements of each measurement agent, because the voltage drops at some
measurement points would not be proportional to the current at the same point.
[0035]$When the monitoring agent residing at the Remote Hub of the TAN detects a
probable theft, then the Remote Hub may send an Edge-o-Substation message to alert the
utility about the anomaly. Edge-to-Substation messages, as described in Unted ;States
Patent Application No, 13/871,944 referenced above, travel from a Remote Hub to an
electrical distribution substation supplying power to the substation tansfomer, here,
transformer 607. From the substation, the message is transferred by a conventional
network to a data center provided by the utility or an energy management services
provider. A theft alert may also be propagated via another available network connected
to the Remote Hub or other communicating meter, such as an AMI network. Such a
message may include at least a unique identifier of the service transformer or a meter at
which the anomalous current-voltage relationship was detected which may be used to
match the origin of the message with the data in a grid map database.
                                            13

[0036)The method described herein above with miner computational adjustments can be
equally applied to a transformer area which has a bus topology such as is shown in Figure
2 rather than a radial topology like Figures 1 and 3 In a bus topoliogy, the voltage drop
from transfortner to meter is additive as each node is further from the tmnsformer, as the
metered loads are connected in series rather than in aralel. Nevertheless, each metered
load's contribution to the voltage drop ought to be proportional to the current being
drawn at each meter. If the voyage drop at a given meter is greater than proportional to
the measured currents between the transformer and that meter, based on the time stamped
current and voyage   ireasurernents  shared on the TAN b the other meters- in this case,
specifically the meters earlier in the series with respect to the trasibrmer than the given
measurement point
10037ln order to apply this method in a TAN with a bus topology, it is necessary for the
order of the nodes in the TAN with aspect to the transformer to be known to the
monitoring agent (at least. This can be inferred by the monitoring agent. The ordering
of the series will orrespond to the measured voltage at each metered point, with the
lowest voyage being schematic aly furthest from the transformer. Referring again .o
Figure 2, the schematically nearest meter to transformer 201 is 206, and the furthest in
series is 208. This would remain tre even if premise 205 were geospatially cIoser to
transformer 201 than premise 203, which is certainly possible. This condition is also
ifusirated in Figure 2. Additionally, this schematic inkrence remains correct even if
power theft is occurring, because the reeling voltage drops are still cunulative
[0038J]USi Patent Application Nos 131871,944, 13/888,102, and 13/91 1,849, all
referenced above, teach methods for recording an accurate grid map of an electrical
distribution network. The grid mapping method taught by these inventions includes the
feeder and phase of each substation operable to power each metered load supplied by the
network and a correct and current partitioning of the meters of the network into
Transformer Area Networks, in order to perform theft detecdon, the grid map of a TAN
with a bus topology may be augmented with the series order of the meters of the TAN,
and this order can be kept up-to-date as meters and loads are added and removed from the
TAN, For theft detection, this information may only need to be maintained by a
monitoring agent in each TAN, and indeed it may be recomputed periodically by each
                                            14

monitoring agent, However, it may be beneficial to record this additional information in a
centralized grid map database, said centralized grid map database being taught by
13/871,94.4. To do this, the Edge-tSubstation message sent when a new node is
discovered in the TAN may include the schematic order of the meter on the power line
bus from the transformer, Similarly, if the order of nodes were observed to change, for
example after a power outage or extension of the TAN due to construction, then the new
ordering might be reported in an Edge-to-Substation message to be recorded in a grid
map database.,
[00391 Another method of power theft is sometimes used that does not involve creating
an illegal tap, This method involves creating misdirection by switching meters with a
neighbor prior to making an increase in consumption. A communicating meter of any
kind can already be enabled to report being disconnected from the meter socket if it is
plWgged into a meter socket again (whether the sae souket or a different ona) while
power is available, However, an enterprising power thief can wait for a natural power
outage in which to swap meters with another premnise,~ or can vantdalize the network to
create an outage in which to effect the swap, An intelligent meter, however, that
pardcipates in a Transformer Area Network with real-tie grid mapping as is described
herein and in the referenced related inventions, can detect an illegal move in a variety of
ways:
    *   If two meters are swapped between two distinct TANs, then both TANS may
        report discovering a new meter and losing communications with a meter that was
        formerly part of the TAN.
    *   If two meters are swapped in such a way that the phase of the meters is reversed.,
        then this change may be reported by the grid mapping agents.
    * If two meters are switched within the same TAN and the same phase, then if the
        TAN has a bus architecture, both meters will be detected Os having changed
        positions with respect to their service transforner, and this may be reported by the
        monitoring agent,
    *   If a meter has access to a geospatial location signal, then a grid mapping agent on
        the meter may report the change in Ication.
                                            15

[00401 This leaves only one case - swapping two meters not enabled to receive a
geospatial location signal, between two premises on the sam1e phase of the saine radial
TAN -which is not easily detected. This case may be undesirable from the viewpoint of
the thief because of the proximity of the premises: better to tamper with a meter socket
several blocks away than with that of the next-door neighbor.
[O41)To manage the detection process, an agent such as the monitorng agent on at
least one communicating meter (such as a RemotelHub) on each TAN may report each of
the detected anomakous conditions using an Edge-to-Substation message or another
available wide.area network capable of forwarding the message to a software program
residing in a data center with access to the consolidated grid map. The software program
also receives reports of planned grid changes from other applications used to manage the
grdd An example of such reports could be the work orders used to dispatch field
engineers to make required changes and repairs to the distribution grid, T'Ihe oNftware
program avoids reporting false theft indicadons by matching the anomaly repons from
the communicating meters against the work orders or similar reports, Anomalies which
are explained by the work orders are not reported as potential indicators of theft, The
anomalies which cannot be matched with a work order create alerts that a potential theft
may be occurring, regardless of whether the anomaly is a change in the grid map or a
voltage anomaly reported by a monitoring agent, The theft alert may contain the account
numbers and addresses of the affected premises, the identity and geospatial cordinates
of the affected transformers and meters, and any other relevant information that may be
used to locate the theft, whether the theft is perpetrated by means of moving meters or by
means of creating an unauthorized, unmetered tap
(0042)The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of
illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention
to the precise forms disclosed, Many modifications and variations are possible in light of
the above teaching. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain
the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others
skilled in the at to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various
modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the
scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto,
                                             16

Claims
    1, A system for deteting the theft of power in an electrical distribution grid, the system
       compnsing;
       at least two communicating meters supplied with power by each service distribution
       transformer wherein power theft is to be detected, the meters forming a Transformer Area
       Network;
       a Measurement Agent configured to periodically measure current and voltage at each
       meter and transmth said measurements with a time stamp and an identfier of the meter
       which is unique within the Transfrmier Area Network;
       at least one Monitoring agent configured to receive the transmissions of the Measurement
       Agents;
       at least one communicating meter in each Transforner Area Network where theft
       detection is enabled, configured to transmit messages over a wide-area network;
       a software application hosted in a data center with access to a gid map database
       configured to receive messages trunsmitted by a communicating meter in a Transformer
       Area Network.
    2. 'The system of claim I, wherein said communicating meters are Reniotes,
    3. The system of claim I, wherein the at least one communicating meter configured to
       transmit messages over a wide-area network is a Remote Hub,
    4 The system of claim I wherein the Transformer Area Network has a radial topology,
    5, The system of claim I wherein the Transformer Area network has a bus topology,
    6, The system of claim I, wherein a grid mapping agent is hosted on at least one
       communicating meter of the Transformer Area Network.
    7. A method for detecting unauthorized, unmetered taps on the low-voltage side of an
       electrical distribution service transfotner, the method comprsing:
       providing a multiplicity of communicating meters supplied with power by the service
       distribution transforner;
       organizing the communicating meters into a Transformer Area Network;
       configuring at least one communicating meter of the Transformer Area Network to
       transmit messages over a wide area network;
       providing a software application in a data center with access to a grid map database able
                                                  17

    to receive messages transmitted from a Transfinner Area Network;
    periodically measuring the current and voltage at each communicating meter;
    transmitting the current and voltage measurements on the Transformer Area Network,
    each transmission including at least an identifier unique within the Transformer Area
    Network of the communicating meter which made the measurements, the time at which
    the measurements were made, and the measured current and voltage;
    collecting the measurements made at the several meters at the same time within the time
    synchronization tolerance of the Transformer Area Network;
    adjusting the voltage measurements to account for the voltage drop accounted for by the
    measured current flows;
    comparing the adjusted voltage measurements to identify meters at which the observed
    voltage drop is not proportional to the current flow at the meter;
    transmiting a wide-rea message describing any observed anomaly consisting of at least
    one non-proportional voltage drop at a meter, the message comprising at least an
    identifier of the transformer or the meter where the anomaly was observed, sufficient to
    allow the component to be matched with its representation in a grid map database,
    receiving said wide-area message in a data center wherein a software application may
    process the message and issue an alert regarding a possible power theft
    The method of claim 7, wherein the Transformer Area Network has a bus topology,
    comprising the additional step of ordering the meters reporting current and vohage
    measurements at a given time in order of descending voyage measured at each meter;
9. The method of claim 8, comprising reporting a change in the order of the meters from
    one time-stamped reporting period to the next as an anomaly potentially indicating
     tampering with the meters of the Transformer Area Network
10. A method for detecing tampering with electrical meters and unauthorized, unmetered
    taps in an electrical distribution network, the method coMprising:
    providing a Transformer Area Network at each service transfomier where tampering is to
    be detected;
    providing at least one communicating meter in each Transformer Area Network
    configured to send a message over a wide-area network;
    providing a software application in a data center with access to a grid mapping database
                                               18

    configured to receive messages transmitted from the Transformer area networks;
    contiguring the software application to receive notifications from other utility
    applications regarding planned changes in the grid;
    transmitting wide area messages from a Transformer Area Network whenever a change in
    the configuration of the Transfonner Area Network is detected;
    matching the location information in the message with the location information stored in
    the grid map database;
    comparing the messages fimm the Trnsformer Area Networks to the noti ications
    regarding planned changes to eliminate messages from the Transformer Area Networks
     which are explained by a planned configuration change;
    reporting as a potential tampering event whatever messages have not been eliminated,
i L The method of claim 10, further comprising transmitting a message reporting the identity
    and grid kication of a new meter joining the Transformer Arca Netwoik
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising transmitting a message reporting the identity
    and gnd location of a meter which has stopped communicating withits Transformer Area
    Network,
13. The method of claim 10, further compnisin        noting a mestae reporting       that the
    schematic location of a meter within a bus-structured Transformer Area Network has
    changed.
 4. The method of claim 10 further comprising transmitting a message that the geospatial
     location of an eleetneal meter has changed.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising transmitting a message that power theft due
     to an unauthorized, unmetered tap may be occurring in a Transformer Area Network,
                                              19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
