BIODEGRADABLE ARTICLES AND METHODS FOR TREATMENT
OF PELVIC FLOOR DISORDERS INCLUDING EXTRACELLULAR
MATRIX MATERIAL
ABSTRACT
Biodegradable implants including an ECM material and methods for
treating a pelvic floor condition are described. ECM particles can be present within or on the
surface of a pelvic implant, such as a biodegradable mesh, a pouch, or a urethral stent. After
implantation the implant can provide tissue support, degrade over a period of time, and
deposit the ECM material in the implantation area for regeneration of tissue and long term
benefit

     BIODEGRADABLE ARTICLES AND METHODS FOR TREATMENT OF
    PELVIC FLOOR DISORDERS INCLUDING EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX
                                          MATERIAL
 5                                    PRIORITY CLAIM
            This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application
   No. 61/844,282, filed July 9, 2013 and tied "BIODEGRADABLE ARTICLES
   AND METHODS FOR TREATMENT OF PELVIC FLOOR DISORDERS
   INCLUDING EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX MATERIAL" which application is
10 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates generally to implantable medical articles, such
   as meshes and stents, for the treatment of pelvic floor disorders, where the articles
   are associated with extracellular matrix material.
15                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            Pelvic health is a medical area of increasing importance, at least in part due
   to an aging population. Examples of common pelvic ailments include incontinence
   (e.g., fecal and urinary), pelvic tissue prolapse (e.g., female vaginal prolapse), and
   other conditions of the pelvic floor.
20          Urinary incontinence can fRther be classified as including different types,
   such as stress urinary incontinence (SUI), urge urinary incontinence, mixed urinary
   incontinence, among others. Other pelvic floor disorders include cystocele,
   rectocele, enterocele, and prolapse such as anal, uterine and vaginal vault prolapse.
   A cystocele is a hernia of the bladder, usually into the vagina and introitus. Pelvic
25 disorders such as these can result from weakness or damage to normal pelvic
   support systems.
            Urinary incontinence can be characterized by the loss or diminution in the
   ability to maintain the urethral sphincter closed as the bladder fills with urine. Stress
   urinary incontinence (SUI) generally occurs when the patient is physically stressed.
30          In its severest forms, vaginal vault prolapse can result in the distension of the
   vaginal apex outside of the vagina. An enterocele is a vaginal hernia in which the
   peritoneal sac containing a portion of the small bowel extends into the rectovaginal
   space. Vaginal vault prolapse and enterocele represent challenging forms of pelvic
                                                1

   disorders for surgeons. These procedures often involve lengthy surgical procedure
   times.
            Current repair of various pelvic disorders, such as female incontinence and
   prolapse repair, typically use a mesh implant made of an inert material such as
 5 poly(propylene). Traditional mesh implant repairs can be effective, but often not
   satisfactory for all patients. Porcine tissue has been used as an alternative to inert
   materials, such as for sling preparation and repair, but the long term efficacy is not
   as good. In some methods like prolapse repair, excess tissue can be excised and
   then the tissues plicated together. However, since this tissue is already
10 compromised there is an increased chance it will fail again in the future, requiring
   addition repeat procedures. In these cases treatment relies on either compromised
   tissue to act as Mully functional tissue, or using an artificial implant to restore
   anatomy as well as the tissues' response to these devices. Other pelvic treatments
   such as TURP for BPH, or TURBT for bladder cancer, can lead to erectile
15 dysfunction from nerve damage in the case of BPH, and issues with the bladder wall
   in cases of bladder cancer. Other diseases such as OAB (over active bladder) and
   ICS (interstitial cystitis) have been attributed to 'faulty' nerve signaling causing
   either overactivity of the bladder in OAB or pain in ICS.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20          The present invention describes implantable medical articles for the
   treatment of treating pelvic conditions. Embodiments of the invention include
   implantable medical articles configured for treatment of a pelvic floor disorder or
   disease, the articles including a biodegradable material or a binder, and an
   extracellular matrix preparation. The articles can be used for the treatment of
25 conditions such as incontinence (various forms such as fecal incontinence, stress
   urinary incontinence, urge incontinence, mixed incontinence, etc.), vaginal prolapse
   (including various forms such as enterocele, cystocele, rectocele, apical or vault
   prolapse, uterine descent, etc.), and other conditions caused by muscle and ligament
   weakness.
30          In methods of treatment, the implants can initially provide structural support
   to tissue in the area of the pelvis. ECM material can be made available to the tissue
   following implantation, initially and/or following degradation of the biodegradable
                                                 2

   material. The ECM material can promote tissue regeneration, and enhance the
    formation of natural tissue structures that provide long term benefit to the patient.
   For example, use of an absorbable implant initially allows for the pelvic organs to be
   returned to their proper location or ensure that the ECM is in contact with the proper
 5 surrounding tissues while tissue regeneration promoted by the ECM occurs. The
   initial phases of restoration provide by the implant can be followed by natural
   restoration, both anatomically and histologically.
            In one embodiment, the invention provides an implant configured for
   treatment of a pelvic disorder, the implant comprising a biodegradable polymeric
10 mesh structure, and an extracellular matrix preparation associated with the mesh
   structure. After implantation the implant can provide tissue support, degrade over a
   period of time, and deposit the ECM material in the implantation area for
   regeneration of tissue and long term benefit.
            In another embodiment, the invention provides an implant configured for
15 treatment of a pelvic disorder, the implant comprising ECM material and a
   biocompatibic binder, wherein the ECM material is the primary component by
   weight the implant. The biocompatible binder can also be degradable and deposit
   the ECM material in the implantation area for regeneration of tissue and long term
   benefit.
20          In another embodiment, the invention provides an implant or stent
   configured for treatment of a pelvic disorder, the implant formed from material
   comprising an extrusion comprising a biostable or biodegradable polymeric material
   and extracellular matrix preparation.
            In another embodiment, the invention provides a biodegradable urethral stent
25 comprising a biodegradable polymer and an extracellular matrix preparation. In
   another embodiment, the invention provides a penile implant an extracellular matrix
   preparation.
            Other embodiments are directed towards treatment of a pelvic floor condition
   using an implantable medical article of the invention. Methods of the invention
30 include steps of (a) providing an medical implant comprising an ECM preparation as
   described herein, and (b) implanting the implant at a target site in the pelvic area to
   treat the pelvic floor condition. The pelvic floor condition can be an incontinence
                                                3

    condition, such as one selected from the group consisting of fecal incontinence,
    stress urinary incontinence, urge incontinence, mixed incontinence, a vaginal
   prolapse condition, such as one selected from the group consisting of enterocele,
   cystocele, rectocele, apical or vault prolapse, and uterine descent, a male urogenital
 5 condition such as erectile dysfunction and benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), a
   bladder conditions such as interstitial cystitis (IC), overactive bladder (OAB), and
   bladder cancer, or other conditions caused by muscle and ligament weakness.
            Use of the ECM preparation can promote regeneration of various tissue types
   include muscle tissue and tendon, nervous tissue, connective tissue, and epithelial
10 tissue.
            Yet other embodiments are directed towards kits or systems for the treatment
   of a pelvic floor condition. The kits or systems include (a) an implantable medical
   article comprising an ECM preparation as described herein, and (b) one or nore
   instruments for the insertion of the article in a subject.
15                    BRIEF DESCRIPION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Figure Ia is an illustration of a portion of a biodegradable mesh with
   biodegradable monofilaments associated with an ECM preparation.
            Figure Ia is an illustration of cross section a biodegradable monofilament
   with ECM particles located therein.
20          Figure 2a is an illustration of a portion of a biodegradable mesh having an
   ECM coating.
            Figure 2b is an illustration of a cross-section of a biodegradable
   monofilament having an ECM coating on the surface of the monofilament.
            Figure 2c is an illustration of a cross-section of a biodegradable
25 monofilament having an ECM particle coating on the surface of the monofilament.
            Figure 2d is an illustration of a cross-section of a biodegradable
   monofilament having an ECM particle and biodegradable polymer coating on the
   surface of the monofilament.
            Figure 3 is an illustration of a portion of a biodegradable molded mesh
30 associated with an ECM preparation.
            Figure 4 is an illustration of a biodegradable urethral stent including braided
   monofilaments associated with an ECM preparation.
                                                 4

           Figure 5 is an illustration of a molded or extruded biodegradable urethral
   stent including fenestrations, the stent associated with an ECM preparation.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Pelvic implants or devices can be associated with an extracellular matrix
 5 (ECM) preparation. As a general matter, an ECM preparation refers to a processed
   preparation of a tissue that contains a mixture of structural and functional molecules
   secreted by the resident cells of the tissue from which the ECM preparation is
   prepared. The particular ECM constituents and their abundance in the preparation
   can vary depending on the tissue type that is processed, as well as the processing
10 parameters. The ECM preparation can be prepared by obtaining a desired tissue,
   removing cellular material from the tissue, and then processing the decellularized
   tissue to a desirable form. Processing can include steps of dehydration or
   lyophilization, and disinfection. Exemplary tissue sources include small intestinal
   submucosa (SIS), urinary bladder, cardiac tissue, vasculature, dermal tissue, nervous
15 tissue, muscle, tendons, ligaments, and liver. Tissue can be obtained from syngenic,
   allogenic, or xenogenic sources.
           Processing steps can remove antigenic components, such as those associated
   with cell membranes and intracellular components. This generally minimizes or
   eliminates host immunologic responses when the implant with ECM material is
20 introduced into a patient for the treatment of a pelvic condition. Decellularization of
   ECM preparations can include chemical and/or physical processes. For example,
   processed tissue can be subjected to processing steps such as freezing and thawing,
   sonication, chopping, mincing, etc. Detergents, such as anionic detergents and non
   ionic detergents, can be used for decellularization. Examples of anionic detergents
25 are sulfate-based detergents such as sodium sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and
   examples non-ionic detergents are poly(alkylene oxide)-based detergents such as
   Triton X-100. Enzymes such as proteases, like trypsin, can also be used for
   processing the tissue.
           Most ECM preparations have collagen as the primary solids component in
30 the preparation (> 50% wt), and more typically greater than 75% wt, or greater than
   90% wt. Most of the collagen of the collagen component is collagen type I. Other
   collagen types such as collagen type III, IV, V, VI and V1I can be present in the
                                                5

   preparation in smaller amounts. ECM preparations can also include
   glycosaminoglycans, such as hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, heparin, and
   heparan sulfate. ECM preparations can also include adhesion molecules such as
   fibronectin and laminin, as well as proteoglycans and glycoproteins. Growth factors
 5 such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) transforming growth factor-b
   (TGF-P), and basic fibroblast growth factor (0-FGF) can also be present in ECM
   preparations. ECM proteins are understood to have high conservation across species
   and therefore are generally immunologically tolerated in xenogeneic recipients.
            ECM preparations are commercially available from a variety of
10 manufacturers (e.g., Bard, Synovis, Cook, Lifecell, etc.) and can be provided in a
   variety of forms such as a dry sheet, a hydrated sheet, or a gel.
            In some modes of practice, an ECM powder is obtained or prepared and
   associated with the pelvic implant. For example, the ECM powder can be prepared
   according to the process described by Gilbert et at (2005) Biomaterials 26:1431
15 1435, in which methods to produce a particle form of extracellular matrix (ECM)
   from porcine urinary bladder are described.
            In one method of preparing ECM powder, a lyophilized form of ECM
   material is snap frozen, and then pulverized in a grinding mill. In another method of
   preparing ECM powder, a lyophilized form of ECM material is saturated in a NaCl
20 composition, snap frozen to precipitate salt prior to grinding, and then pulverized in
   a grinding mill.
            ECM can be obtained from porcine urinary bladder by removing the tunica
   muscularis extera and tunica submucosa layers, leaving the basement membrane
   and tunica propria intact. The urinary bladder matrix (UBM) can then be washed in
25 a 0.1% peracetic acid solution for two hours with subsequent rinses in phosphate
   buffered saline and distilled water to disinfect the material and remove any cellular
   remnants.
            In one mode of practice the UBM is made into particle form by lyophilizing
   disinfected UBM material and then chopping it into small sheets for immersion in
30 liquid nitrogen. Snap frozen UBM is then reduced to small pieces with a Waring
   blender to make particles sized to fit in a rotary knife mill. A #60 screen is used to
   restrict the collected powder size to less than 250 n.
                                                6

           In another mode of practice the UBM is made into particle form by first
    soaking the disinfected UBM material in a 30% (w/v) NaCl solution for 5 min. The
   NaCl-soaked UBM is then snap frozen in liquid nitrogen to precipitate salt crystals,
   and next lyophilized to remove residual water. This material is then comminuted
 5 according to the first mode of preparation. Precipitating NaCl is to promote the
   UBM material to fracture into more uniformly sized particles. The particles are
   suspended in deionized water and centrifuged (5 min at 1000 rpm, three times) to
   remove NaCI. The suspension is snap frozen, lyophilized, and then the powder
   placed in a rotary knife mill to disaggregate the individual particles.
10         Exemplary sizes of ECM particles can be in the micron range (e.g., 1 pm to
    1000 pm, 5 pm to 750 pm, or 10 pm to 500 pm), with mean particle sizes in the
   range of about 50 pm to about 200 pm. Populations of larger or smaller particles
   can be generated by sifting using screens with openings of predetermined sizes. The
   particles can have irregular shapes with sheet-like or fiber-like appearances. The
15 particles can also have different textured surfaces (such as a smooth surface and a
   more fibrous surface).
           Various types of absorbable polymeric materials can be used to form the
   implantable medical article, such as a mesh, or a prosthetic device like a stent. The
   terms "bioabsorbable," degradablee," and "biodegradable," can also be used to
20 describe a material that is absorbable, such as an absorbable polymer. Many
   absorbable polymers include hydrolytically unstable chemical groups such as ester
   groups in the polymeric backbone. The hydrolytic cleavage of these chemical
   groups leads to degradation of the polymer.
           Synthetic bioabsorbable polymers include, but are not limited to
25 polyhydroxyalkanoates (e.g., poly-4-hydroxybutyrate (P4HB), poly(3
   hydroxyvalerate), and poly(hydroxybutyrate-co-hydroxyvalerate)); polyesters (e.g.,
   polylactic acid, poly(lactide-co-glycolide), polycaprolactone, poly(valerolactone),
   poly(glycolic acid), (poly(glycolide)), and poly(dioxanone)); polyorthoesters;
   polyalkeneanhydrides (e.g., poly(sebacic acid)); polyanhydrides, and
30 polyphosphazine.
           Polyhydroxyalkanoates include homopolymers such as poly-4
   hydroxybutyrate (P411B), poly(3-hydroxyvalerate), and hydroxyalkanoate
                                               7

    copolymers such as poly(hydroxybutyrate-co-hydroxyvalerate) (Organ, S.J.
    (1994) Polymer, 35, 1:86-92). Blends of hydroxyalkanoate polymers with other
    absorbable polymers have also been prepared, such as poly(O-hydroxybutyrate) and
    poly(c-caprolactone) blends (Gassner, F., and Owen, AJ. (1994) Polymer, 35,
 5  10:2233-2236).
            Poly(glycolic acid) (PGA) is a highly crystalline and has a melting point in
   the range of 225-230*C. While higher molecular weight forms are insoluble in
   common organic solvents such as acetone, dicholomethane. chloroform, and
   tetrahydrofuran, its lower molecular weight forms generally have better solubility in
10 common organic solvents. Glycolide copolymers also can have better solubility in
   common organic solvents. For example, star block copolymers based on glycerol
   and glycolide show solubility in organic solvents such as DMF and DMSO (see, for
   example, Wolf, F.K., et al. (2010) Beilstein J Org.Chem. 6, No. 67). Copolymers
   of lactic acid and glycolic acid (e.g., 50:50 mot percent) have solubility in
15 chloroform (United States Patent 3867190). Copolymerization of lactic acid and
   glycolic acid reduces the degree of crystallinity and results in an increased rate of
   hydration and hydrolysis. Copolymers of lactic acid and glycolic acid can be
   manipulated into a desired form by techniques such as extrusion, injection and
   compression molding as well as particulate leaching and solvent casting.
20          Lactic acid is a chiral molecule and L-lactide and D-lactide optically active
   forms can be polymerized to form poly-L-lactide (PLLA), poly-D-lactide (PDLA),
   and poly-D,L-lactide (PDLLA). PLLA has a crystallinity of about 37%, a glass
   transition temperature between 60-65*C, and a melting temperature between 173
   178 "C. PDLLA is amorphous and has a glass transition temperature of 55-60"C.
25         Another polyester, polydioxanone (PDS) is made by a ring-opening
   polymerization of the p-dioxanone monomer that forms a polymer of multiple
   repeating ether-ester units. PDS has a glass transition temperature in the range of
   10 to 0"C and a degree of crystallinity of about 55%. The presence of an ether
   oxygen within the polydioxanone backbone of the polymer chain can provide
30 materials with enhanced flexibility.
           Exemplary erodible polyorthoesters can be formed by reacting an orthoester
   (or orthocarbonate) with a diol (see, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,079,038, and
                                               8

   4,138,344), or by reacting a reacting a polyol with a polyfunctional ketene acetal
   (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 4,304,767).
            The implant may also include a natural polymer that can be absorbed in the
   body. Hyaluronic acid, alginate, dextran, starch, amylopectin, cellulose, xanthan,
 5 pullulan, chitosan, pectin, inulin, and heparin are examples of absorbable natural
   polymers which can be used to prepare the implantable medical article.
            The implant can also include biodegradable material that can be cured by
   light irradiation. For example, a composition that includes a light-curable
   biodegradable polymer and ECM material can be irradiated, which causes the
10 composition to solidify, such as by formation or crosslinking of polymeric material.
   The composition may be in the placed in a mold and irradiated, or the solidified
   composition can be used to construct the implant Photosensitive reagents that can
   be used to cause polymerization of a composition to form the implant are
   commercially available (for example, Irgacure     m , BASF). Exemplary
15 photosensitive compounds initiate free radical polymerization of polymerizable
   material in the composition following lV exposure. Exemplary polymerizable
   materials include monomers and polymers (macromers) with unsaturated groups.
   For example, the composition can include a divinyl terminated poly(actide-co
   caprolactone) macromers which can be crosslinked in the presence of a light
20 initiating system (see, for example, Davis, KA. (2003) Biomaterials24:2485-95).
            In embodiments, some pelvic implants of the disclosure do not include any,
   or any substantial amount, of an inert material or a non-degradable material. For
   example, in some embodiments, the implant does not include any, or any substantial
   amount, of a non-degradable synthetic polymer, such as polypropylenee.
25          A biodegradable implant with ECM can include one or more portions made
   from woven biodegradable materials. For example, the implant can include a central
   support portion and/or extension portion(s) made from woven materials, The woven
   portion(s) can be made from monofilaments, multifilaments, yams of polymeric
   material, or combinations thereof. A woven mesh generally has openings and the
30 size and shape of these openings can be defined by the weave or knitting patterns of
   the woven mesh. The openings can be of any one or combination of shapes, such as
   square, rectangular, triangular, oval, circular, or more complex polygonal shapes
                                               9

    (hexagonal, etc.), as well as irregular shapes, such as might be associated with more
    complex knitted or woven constructs.
            In some embodiments the implant portions having a knitted or woven
    construction include biodegradable monofilaments, such as poly(L-lactide) (PLLA)
 5  monofilaments (see, for example, Kinoshita, Y. et al. (1993) Biomaterials; 14:729
    36). Exemplary monofilaments have diameters in the range of about 10 pm to
   about 250 pn     (0.0004   to - 0.01 inches), or more specifically from about 25 Pm to
   about 150 gm     (~0.001 to ~0.006 inches). Commercial examples of absorbable
   materials include DexonTM (polyglycolic acid) available from Davis and Geck of
10 Danbury, Connecticut, and VicrylTm available from Ethicon.
           In some embodiments, all or a portion of the implant can be made from a
   woven mesh that includes ECM material. For example, the implant can have a
   central support portion and one or more extension portions, either of which, or both,
   can be made from a woven mesh with ECM material. Alternatively, one portion of
15 the implant can be made from a woven mesh, and another portion of the implant can
   be made from a material that is different than the woven mesh, such as a molded,
   non-woven, mesh.
           The sizing and shape of an implant that includes a woven filament material can
   provide the structure as well as the pore size to provide the proper amount of surface
20 area to deliver the ECM to the treatment site. Exemplary sizes of apertures in a mesh
   construct can be in the range of about 0.2 mm 2 to about 2 mm2 , or more specifically
   in the range of about 0.5 mm2 to about 1.5 mm2.
           In some cases the mesh can also be defined in terms of its basis weight. In
   many constructions a mesh with a lower basis weight can be more porous or have
25 larger openings, whereas a mesh with a higher basis weight is less porous or has
   smaller openings. In some aspects the mesh has a basis weight in the range of about
   5 g/m 2 to about 100 g/m 2, and more specifically in the range of about 10 g/m2 to
   about 50 g/m, or about 15 g/m2 to about 30 g/m2.
           Mesh porosity can also be expressed in terms of percent porosity. "Porosity"
30 refers to the percentage of the mesh surface that has openings. In exemplary
   constructions, the mesh preferably has porosity of greater than 50%, and more
   preferably greater than 60%, 70%, or 75%.
                                                10

           In some embodiments, the implant comprises a porous mono- or
   multifilament, or a molded construction, and the ECM material can be included in
   the pores of the molded or filament-based material. Porous absorbable mono- or
   multifilaments can be prepared using a biodegradable polymer, or a mixture thereof,
 5 along with a porogen, such a salt, sucrose, PEG, or an alcohol. Removing a porogen
   from a biodegradable matrix is described in U.S. Patent No. 5,948,020.
           As a general matter, a porogen can be dispersed in a composition that
   includes a biodegradable polymer or a combination of biodegradable polymers. In
   some cases the porogen/polymer composition is melt processed into a desired form,
10 such as a monofilament or a molded article. The monofilament or molded article
   can also be formed by dissolving the polymer in a solvent (e.g., an organic solvent)
   and dispersing the porogen therein, and then casting the article from the
   composition. After the monofilament or molded is formed, or after the
   monofilament is formed into a fabric, the porogen can be removed using a solvent
15 that dissolves the porogen out of the polymeric material of the article.
           After the pores are created in the implant article, the article can be soaked in
   a solution that includes the ECM material, such as a preparation of ECM particle
   material.
           In other modes of practice, powderized ECM is impregnated into
20 biodegradable polymeric material of the implant using a process selected from the
   group consisting of swelling of implant material, and vacuum incorporation.
           In one exemplary construction, as shown in Figure la, the biodegradable
   implant comprises a mesh made from multiple fibers. A portion of the mesh with
   fibers 12a - 12e is shown. One of more of the fibers can include the ECM material,
25 such as ECM particles, within the degradable material of the fibers. The
   biodegradable material (e.g., a PLLA polymer) can comprise the majority of the
   amount of the fibers in the mesh, such as greater than 50% (wt), 60% (wt) or greater,
   70% (wt) or greater, 80% (wt) or greater, 90% (wt) or greater, 95% (wt) or greater,
   or 97.5% (wt) or greater. The remaining material in the mesh can be the ECM
30 material.
            Figure lb shows a cross-section of a fiber of the mesh of Figure 1a having
   ECM particles (e.g., 21) within the biodegradable material 23 of the fiber. The ECM
                                               11

   particles can be surrounded by biodegradable material, or a portion of the particles
   can be in contact with biodegradable material, or both. The mesh can optionally be
   described in terms of the relationship between the size of the fiber and the ECM
   particle (e.g., diameter:diameter). The "diameter" of an ECM particle can be the
 5 average cross-section of ECM particles in a preparation, which may include particles
   of various shapes and sizes. For example, the ratio of the diameter of the ECM
   particle to the diameter of the mesh can be in the range of about 1:100 to about 1:5,
   or more specifically about 1:50 to about 1:10.
           An implant that has ECM material incorporated into the biodegradable
10 material of the mesh can release the ECM material in the area of implant placement
   during and/or after the implant degrades. Therefore, the implant can serve as a
   timed-release mechanism for the ECM material. A biodegradable polymer or
   polymer combination can be chosen to provide a desired ECM release mechanism.
           In other embodiments, the biodegradable structure of the implant is formed
15 by preparing a composition comprising a biodegradable polymer and ECM material,
   such as ECM particles as described herein. For example, in one mode of
   preparation, a composition of a biodegradable melt-processable polymer and ECM
   material is heated and the composition is formed into a filament, such as by
   extrusion, or introduced into a mold. In another mode of preparation, a composition
20 including a biodegradable melt-processable polymer dissolved in solvent and ECM
   material dispersed therein is prepared and then the article is casted from the
   composition.
           In other embodiments, biodegradable structure of the implant is coated with
   a composition comprising an ECM material, such as ECM particles as described
25 herein. For example in one mode of preparation, a composition of an ECM material
   is applied to a surface of the biodegradable article using a process such as brushing,
   swabbing, or dipcoating of the composition on the article. Depending on the amount
   or concentration of the ECM material used, the ECM coating formed on the
   biodegradable article can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
30         In another exemplary construction, as shown in Figure 2a, the biodegradable
   implant comprises a mesh 30 made from multiple fibers, with one (e.g., 32) of more
   of the fibers having a coating of ECM material, such as ECM particles. Figure 2b
                                              12

     shows a cross-section of a fiber of a biodegradable mesh having ECM material as a
     coating 47 on the outer surface of a biodegradable fiber 45. Figure 2c shows in
     detail a cross-section of a fiber of a biodegradable mesh having ECM particles 51 as
     a coating on the outer surface of a biodegradable fiber 55. Adherence of the ECM
  5  particles to the surface of the fiber may be enhanced by using a binder (not shown).
    Figure 2d shows in a cross-section of a fiber of a biodegradable mesh having ECM
    particles 51 and a biodegradable polymeric material 66 as a coating on the outer
     surface of a biodegradable fiber 65,
             In some embodiments, the pelvic implant with ECM material can be formed
10  from a non-knitted/non-woven (e.g., molded) polymeric mesh layer (see, for
    example, commonly assigned PCT Publication Nos. WO 2011/063412 and WO
    2011/072148). Non-knitted/non-woven meshes can be formed of patterned cells by
    way of a molding, die casting, laser etching, laser cutting, extruding, punching, or 3
    D printing process. The portion of the implant that is the non-knitted/non-woven
15  mesh may be considered a homogenous unitary construct. The pattern cut or formed
    implant can be constructed of a biodegradable polymer material to provide a lattice
    support structure of repeated apertures or cells. Repeated apertures forming a lattice
    structure can be cut or molded into sinusoid, or other waveform or undulating strut
    patterns to control elongation or compression along single or multiple axes to define
20  a desirable pattern density with overall reduced surface area, and to control the
    distribution and shaping from applied loads.
             In an exemplary construction, as shown in Figure 3, the biodegradable
    implant comprises a molded mesh 70 including an ECM material. The molded mesh
    70 is shown having generally square or rectangular apertures 71, as formed from
25  struts or crosspieces represented by item 72. However, a molded biodegradable
    mesh associated with an ECM material can be formed to have apertures and struts or
    crosspieces of any desired shape and configuration. ECM material (not shown) can
    be located within biodegradable material of the struts or crosspieces, or as a coating
    on all or a portion of the struts or crosspieces.
30           Figure 2b shows a cross-section of a fiber of a biodegradable mesh having
    ECM material as a coating 47 on the outer surface of a biodegradable fiber 45.
    Figure 2c shows in detail a cross-section of a fiber of a biodegradable mesh having
                                                 13

   ECM particles 51 as a coating on the outer surface of a biodegradable fiber 55.
   Adherence of the ECM particles to the surface of the fiber may be enhanced by
   using a binder (not shown). Figure 2d shows in a cross-section of a fiber of a
   biodegradable mesh having ECM particles 51 and a biodegradable polymeric
 5 material 66 as a coating on the outer surface of a biodegradable fiber 65,
            The ECM material can be associated with a non-knitted/non-woven mesh in
   ways as described, such as by (a) coating the surface of the non-knitted/non-woven
   mesh, (b) using a composition that includes biodegradable polymer and an ECM
   material for extruding or solvent casting the non-knitted/non-woven mesh, or (c)
10 preparing a porous non-knitted/non-woven mesh using a porogen and then filling the
   pores with ECM material.
            In some embodiments, all or a portion of the implant is prepared from a
   composition comprising ECM material and a biocompatible binder, wherein the
   ECM material is the primary component by weight the composition. The
15 composition can be prepared by mixing ECM material, such as ECM particles, and
   the biocompatible binder component, optionally in the presence of a solvent. In this
   embodiment, the ECM material is the primary solids component by weight in the
   composition. For example, the composition can include ECM material in an amount
   of 50% (wt.) or greater, 60% (wt.) or greater, 70% (wt.) or greater, 80% (wt.) or
20 greater, 90% (wt.) or greater, or 95% (wt.) or greater.
            In some embodiments the biocompatible binder is selected from the group
   consisting of proteins, polysaccharides, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, or mixtures
   thereof. The biocompatible binder can be absorbable in the body. The
   biocompatible binder can be used in an amount less then the ECM material. For
25 example, the biocompatible binder can be present in an amount of less than 50%
   (wt.), less than 40% (wt.), less than 30% (wt.), less than 20% (wt.), less than 10%
   (wt.), or less than 5% (wt.).
            In use, the implant can degrade over a period of time, providing ECM
   material at the site of implant placement. For example, the implant can be placed at
30 a site of tissue repair in the pelvic area to provide support for a period of time. The
   binder material can degrade during and/or after the time support is provided by the
   implant. Degradation of the binder can deposit the ECM material in the area of
                                                 14

    implant placement and promote tissue regeneration and strengthening for long-term
   repair.
           The biodegradable implants with ECM as described herein can be used in
   association with known implant and repair systems (e.g., for male and female),
 5  including those disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,500,945, 7,407,480, 7,351,197,
   7,347,812, 7,303,525, 7,025,063, 6,691,711, 6,648,921, and 6,612,977, International
   Patent Publication Nos. WO 2008/057261 and WO 2007/097994, and U.S. Patent
   Publication Nos. 2010/0105979, 2002/151762 and 2002/147382. Accordingly, the
   above-identified disclosures are fully incorporated herein by reference in their
10 entirety.
           For example, some embodiments, the implant with ECM material is
   configured for implantation into a female patient. Portions of the implant can have
   features to support an anatomical structure in the pelvis (i.e., a "support portion"),
   such as the vagina, bladder, urethra, or levator ani. Portions of the implant can also
15 have features, such as straps or arms that extend from a support portion of the
   implant, or tissue anchors or fasteners (e.g., self-fixating tips), to help maintain the
   implant at a desired anatomical location in the pelvis.
           For example, the implant with ECM material can be used for treating urinary
   incontinence in a female subject, the implant including a urethral sling having a
20 central portion and first and second ends or arms. The first and second ends/arms
   can be coupled to and extend from the central support portion. Following
   implantation, the arms are used to help secure or position the implant at a desired
   anatomical location in the pelvis.
           Implants with ECM material of the invention can be part of a kit. The kit
25 can include components for carrying out procedures for the insertion of the implant
   in a patient. Exemplary components can include tissue fasteners, tools for
   introducing the implant into a patient using a surgical insertion procedure, scalpels
   or knives for making the incision, and needles and suture material for closing the
   incision. All or parts of the kit can be sterilely packaged. Insertion tools useful for
30 insertion of the implant can include a handle and an elongate needle, wire, or rod
   extending from the handle. The needle, wire, or rod can be shaped (such as helical,
                                                15

   straight, or curved) to be useful to carry the implant through a desired tissue path in
   the pelvic region.
            The particular features of the implant embodiments of the invention can be
   adapted to known implant constructions useful for treating female pelvic conditions,
 5 including those already described in the art. Those skilled in the art will recognize
   that various other mesh configurations, such as those described herein with reference
   to the following publications, can also be used in conjunction with the features and
   procedures of the current invention.
            In some constructions, the implant with ECM material is used for treating
10 incontinence, prolapse, or a mixture of incontinence and prolapse, and includes a
   portion useful to support the urethra or bladder neck to address urinary incontinence,
   such as described in commonly assigned application published as US 2010/0256442
   (Ogdahl, el al), and exemplified by the mesh constructions of Figures 3B and 3C
   therein. The implant can be in the form of a biodegradable mesh strip that in
15 inserted transvaginally and used to support the urethra or bladder neck. The implant
   with ECM material can be configured to have a length (distance between distal ends,
   e.g., self-fixating tips, of extension portions) to extend from a right obturator
   foramen to a left obturator foramen, (e.g., from one obturator intemus muscle to the
   other obturator internus muscle). Exemplary lengths of an implant or implant
20 portion for extension below the urethra, between opposing obturator foramen, from
   distal end to distal end of the extensions while laying flat, can be in the range from
   about 6 to 15 centimeters, e.g., from 7 to 10 centimeters or from 8 to 9 centimeters
   or about 8.5 centimeters. (Lengths LI and L2 of figures 3B and 3C can be within
   these ranges.) The lengths are for female urethral slings, and are for anterior
25 portions of implants for treating female prolapse or combined female prolapse and
   incontinence, which include an anterior portion that has a length between ends of
   anterior extensions portions within these same ranges. A width of the extension
   portion can be as desired, such as within the range from about 1 to 1.5 centimeters.
   The implant can also have two or more tissue anchoring features (e.g., self-fixating
30 tips). The self-fixating tips can be present at the ends of the mesh strips, or at the
   ends of arms or extensions that extend from a central support portion.
                                                16

            In some constructions, mesh with ECM material can be configured to treat
   pelvic conditions by supporting levator muscle, such as described in commonly
    assigned application published as US 2010/0261952 (Montpetit, et al.). The levator
   musculature or elevatorr ani" can include the puborectalis, pubococcygeus,
 5 iliococcygeus. Exemplary implants can be of a size and shape to conform to elevator
   tissue, optionally to additionally contact or support other tissue of the pelvic region
   such as the anal sphincter, rectum, perineal body, etc. The implant can be of a single
   or multiple pieces that is or are shaped overall to match a portion of the levator, e.g.,
   that is circular, oblong trapezoidal, rectangular, that contains a combination of
10 straight, angled, and arcuate edges, etc. The implant can include attached or
   separate segments that fit together to extend beside or around pelvic features such as
   the rectum, anus, vagina, and the like, optionally to attach to the feature. The
   implant can include a tissue support portion, which at least in part contacts levator
   tissue. Optionally, the implant can additionally include one or more extension
15 portion(s) that extends beyond the tissue support portion and to be secured to tissue
   of the pelvic region, for support of the tissue support portion. Optionally, extension
   portions can include features such as a tissue fastener (e.g., self-fixating tip, soft
   tissue anchor, bone anchor, etc.), a sheath, a tensioning mechanism such as a suture,
   an adjustment mechanism, etc.
20         According to exemplary methods, an implant for supporting levator muscle
   can be introduced through a vaginal incision that allows access to levator tissue.
   The method can include use of an insertion tool designed to reach through a vaginal
   incision, through an internal tissue path and to then extend through a second external
   incision. In some cases a tools is used to place a self-fixating tip at an internal
25 location of the pelvic region, the tool length sufficient to reach from a vaginal
   incision to an obturator foramen, region of the ischial spine, sacrospinous ligament,
   or other location of placing a self-fixating tip. Exemplary methods include steps that
   involve creating a single medial transvaginal incision and dissecting within a plane
   or region of dissection including the ischorectal fossa. An implant with ECM
30 material can be inserted to contact tissue of the levator, over a desired area. A kit
   with the implant can include connectors for engagement between a needle of an
   insertion tool and a distal end of an extension portion, as well as helical, straight,
                                                17

    and curved needles. An embodiment of a kit, including an insertion tool and an
    implant, is shown in Figure 5 of US 2010/0261952.
             The implant with ECM material can include self-fixating tips designed to
    engage a distal end of an insertion tool to allow the insertion tool to place the self
 5  fixating tip at a desired tissue location by pushing. For example, the mesh can be
    implanted by creating a single medial transvaginal incision under the mid-urethra,
   dissecting a tissue path on each side of the incision, passing a urinary incontinence
    sling through the incision whereby the urinary incontinence sling is suspended
   between the obturator intemus muscles and the sling body is positioned between the
10 patient's urethra and vaginal wall to provide support to the urethra, Commonly
   assigned application published as US 2011/0034759 (Ogdahl, et at), also describes
   implants that include a self-fixating tip at a distal end of one or more extension
   portions, and transvaginal methods for inserting the mesh into a patient
            In some constructions, mesh with ECM material an be configured to treat
15 vaginal prolapse, including anterior prolapse, posterior prolapse, or vault prolapse
   such as described in commonly assigned application published as US
   2010/0261955-Al (OHern, et al). The mesh can be inserted transvaginally,
   following a single incision in the vaginal tissue, with no external incision. The mesh
   can be used to provide Level I support of the vaginal apex in combination with
20 Level 2 support of medial vaginal sidewall tissue. In terms of vaginal prolapse,
   Level 1 vaginal tissue support relates to support of the top portion, or "apex" of the
   vagina. This section of tissue is naturally supported by the cardinal ligament that
   goes laterally to the ischial spine and crosses over medially to the sacrospinous
   ligament, and also by the uterosacral ligament that anchors into the sacrum. Level 2
25 support of vaginal tissue is support of tissue of the mid section of the vagina, below
   the bladder. This tissue is partially supported by the cardinal ligament but is
   predominantly supported by lateral fascial attachments to the arcus tendincus or
   white line. Level 3 support is that of the front end (sometimes referred to as the
   "distal1 section) of the vagina right under the urethra. Natural support includes
30 lateral fascial attachments that anchor into the obturator intemus muscle.
            A method for inserting the implant with ECM material for treating vaginal
   prolapse can include providing an implant that includes a tissue support portion and
                                                18

   two or more extension portions; placing the tissue support portion in contact with
   vaginal tissue to support the vaginal tissue; and extending a posterior extension
   portion to engage a sacrospinous ligament, and extending a lateral extension portion
   to engage tissue at a region of ischial spine, or extending a posterior extension
 5 portion to engage a sacrospinous ligament, and extending an anterior extension
   portion to engage an obturator foramen, or extending an extension portion to engage
   a sacrospinous ligament to provide Level I support, and supporting vaginal tissue to
   provide Level 2 support. Figure 16 of US-2010-0261955-Al illustrates a kit with an
   implant having a support portion piece, two extension portion pieces, adjusting tool,
10 grommet management tool, and insertion tool.
           In some modes of practice, the implants with ECM material can be used
   along with an expansion member in a sacral colpopexy is a procedure for providing
   vaginal vault suspension, such as described in commonly assigned International
   Application No. PCT/USI 1/53985. A sacral colpopexy generally involves
15 suspension, such as by use of a mesh strip implant, of the vaginal cuff to a region of
   sacral anatomy such as the sacrum (bone itself), a nearby sacrospinous ligament,
   uterosacral ligament, or anterior longitudinal ligament at the sacral promontory.
   The implant pan be utilized in a transvaginal sacral colpopexy (TSCP) procedure
   with an expansion member to access tissue of the posterior pelvic region.
20         In some embodiments, the pelvic implant is in the form of a urethral stent.
   The urethral stent can be formed from biodegradable monofilaments, such as
   monofilaments that are woven or braided into a desired configuration, In other
   embodiments the urethral stent can be formed by extrusion or injection molding to
   form a biodegradable tubular structure. The tubular structure can include openings
25 (fenestrations) that can be formed during or afler the extrusion process.
   Biodegradable polymers, including those described herein such as polyanhydrides,
   polycaprolactones, polyglycolic acids, poly-L-lactic acids, poly-D-L-lactic acids,
   and polyphosphate esters, can be used to form the filaments or tubular structure of
   the urethral stent.
30         The ECM material can be associated with monofilaments of the urethral
   stent in ways as described, such as by coating the filaments or tubular structure, or
   co-extruding the ECM material with the biodegradable polymer.
                                               19

            In one embodiment, as shown in Figure 4, the urethral sent includes woven
    monofilaments formed from one or more biodegradable polymers, and an ECM
    material that is incorporated into the woven monofilaments, or coated on the surface
    of the monofilaments. In Figure 4, the stent 80 is a tubular shaped member having
 5  first and second ends 87,88, a walled surface 89 disposed between the first and
    second ends. The walls are composed of extruded polymer monofilaments 85
   woven into a braid-like configuration. ECM material (not shown) can be
   incorporated into the biodegradable polymer of the woven monofilaments, or coated
   on the surface of the monofilament.
10          The urethral stent can be made by interweaving the monofilaments 85 in a
   helical pattern on a round bar mandrel such that one-half of the monofilaments are
   wound clockwise. Each monofilament intersects 85 the oppositely wound
   monofilaments in an alternating over-under pattern such that a tubular braid is made
   with crossing angles 82 between overlapping monofilaments in the longitudinal or
15 axial direction (when the stent 10 is in a non-compressed, resting position) of 100
   150 degrees. The braided device is transferred to an annealing mandrel having a
   diameter equal to or less than the round braiding mandrel The ends 83 of the braid
   are compressed or extended to yield the optimum post annealing geometry, then the
   ends are secured to the annealing mandrel The device is then annealed by heating
20 the annealing bar and stent to 900 C for one hour in an inert atmosphere followed by
   a second heating cycle for 2 hours at 140*C in the same inert atmosphere The stent
   is not allowed to cool between heating cycles. Finally, the stent is cooled, removed
   from the annealing bar and cut to the desired length.
            In another embodiment, as shown in Figure 5,the urethral sent includes an
25 injection molded or extruded fenestrated tube and an ECM material that is
   incorporated into the biodegradable material of the tube, or coated on the surface of
   the tube. In Figure 5, the urethral stent 90 is injection molded or extruded. In
   Figure 5, the stent 90 is a tubular shaped member having first and second ends 97,
   98, a walled surface 99 disposed between the first and second ends. Fenestrations
30 94 are molded, laser cut, die cut, or machined in the wall of the tube. ECM material
   (not shown) can be incorporated into the biodegradable polymer of the injection
   molded or extruded fenestrated tube, or coated on its surface.
                                               20

             The stent 80 or 90 can be provided as a sterile device that is compressed to a
    first diameter in the range of about 6 mm to 10 mm and inserted into a reusable
   delivery tool (not shown) in the operating room immediately before implantation.
   Once the stent 80 or 90 is deployed, it self-expands outwardly to a variable second
 5 diameter conforing to the lumen. The size of the lumen together with the elasticity
   and circumferential pressure of the surrounding tissues determine the stent's final
   nominal diameter. The stents'non-compressed, or resting state, diameter, can be in
   the range of about 12 mm to 18 mm.
             A urethral stent can be used to treat urine flow problems, such as those
10 associated with benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPHI) or urethral strictures. In this
   disease the internal lobes of the prostate slowly enlarge and progressively occlude
   the urethral lumen. A urethral stricture is a circumferential band of fibrous scar
   tissue which progressively contracts and narows the urethral lumen. The
   biodegradable urethral stent with ECM can temporarily restore, or maintain patency
15 of the ureter or the urethra.
             In some embodiments, the pelvic implant is in the form of penile implant.
   Material used to prepare the penile implant can be associated with an ECM material,
   and the implant can include a degradable material. Penile implants can be useful in
   treatment of erectile dysfunction (ED). For example, ECM material provided by a I
20 penile implant could promote the regeneration of nerves in a treatment area to help
   improve symptoms of ED.
             In another embodiment, the invention provides a biodegradable implant
   associated with ECM material that is in the form of a pouch, Pouch-type implants
   could be used to be placed around the bladder to help regenerate nerves to help treat
25 ICS and OAB or within the bladder to help regenerate the lining of the bladder after
   resection of tumors in the case of bladder cancer.
                                                21

                                                 22
CLAIMS
1.     An implant configured for treatment of a pelvic disorder, the implant comprising:
       a mesh structure having a plurality of interwoven fibers, the plurality of interwoven fibers
including a biodegradable polymer; and
       a plurality of extracellular matrix (ECM) particles disposed within at least one fiber of the
plurality of interwoven fibers.
2.     The implant of claim 1, wherein the implant is configured for the treatment of a disorder
selected from the group consisting of prolapse, urinary incontinence, fecal incontinence,
interstitial cystitis, and urge incontinence.
3.     The implant of claim 1, wherein the implant is configured for the treatment of prolapse or
urinary incontinence.
4.     The implant of claim 1, wherein the biodegradable polymer is selected from the group
consisting of poly (glycolic acid) (PGA), (PDS), and poly (glycolic lactic acid) PGLA.
5.     The implant of claim 1, wherein the plurality of ECM particles are powderized ECM
particles.
6.     The implant of claim 1, wherein the plurality of ECM particles is a first plurality of ECM
particles, the implant further comprising a second plurality of ECM particles disposed on a surface
of the at least one fiber.
7.     The implant of claim 5, wherein the powderized ECM particles are impregnated into the
biodegradable polymer using a process selected from the group consisting of swelling of
implant material, and vacuum incorporation.
8.     The implant of claim 1, wherein the implant does not include any, or any substantial
amount, of non-degradable material.
9.     The implant of claim 1, wherein the biodegradable polymer of the at least one fiber is
configured to operate as a timed-release mechanism for the plurality of ECM particles.

                          23
             AMS Research Corporation
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
              SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
