                                          Abstract
There is provided a method of forming a wear indicating minerals processing body
including the steps of: providing a substantially continuous wear resistant liner; locating
one or more monitoring elements on an outer surface of the liner; locating a casing over
the wear resistant liner with a space therebetween; providing a lead out from each
monitoring element to an interface external of the casing; filling the space with a settable
adhesive material; and allowing the settable adhesive material to set.

   WO 2015/017902                                                  PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                1
        CYCLONE SEPARATOR APPARATUS AND METHODS OF PRODUCTION
                                        Technical Field
 5          This disclosure relates to a cyclone separator apparatus and methods for its
     production.   It has particular application to a cyclone separator lining apparatus
    and a method of producing a wear resistant cyclone separator for minerals
     processing, and for illustrative purposes will be described with reference to this
     application. However we envisage that the apparatus disclosed may find use in
10  other applications, such as producing a wear resistant cyclone separator for
     refractory materials generally.
                                       Background Art
15          Cyclonic separation is a method of removing particulates from an air, gas or
     liquid stream, without the use of filters, through vortex separation. Rotational
    effects and gravity are used to separate mixtures of solids and fluids.
            A high speed rotating flow of heterogeneous material is established within a
20  vertical, inverted, frusto-conical housing. The material flows in a helical pattern,
     beginning at the top (wide end) of the cyclone and ending at the bottom (narrow)
    end before exiting the cyclone in a straight stream through the centre of the
    cyclone and out the top. Larger and denser particles in the rotating stream have
    too much inertia to follow the tight curve of the stream, and strike the outside wall,
25  then falling to the bottom of the cyclone where they are removed in an underflow.
            Ceramic lined cyclones are wear resistant separators used commonly in the
     art of minerals processing. Typically a steel, truncated-conical cyclone body has
    outward-directed, radial flanged ends configured to accept inlet and outlet
30  assemblies, and an inner conical wall surface. Tapered blocks of sintered alumina
    or a like ceramic are progressively glued on the inner conical wall surface to build
     up a wear-resistant surface.

   WO 2015/017902                                                      PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                  2
             There is an inherent limitation of the size of monolithic liner blocks that can
     be isostatically pressed. That is, isostatic presses can only produce fairly small
    ceramic liner block portions which in turn means that multiple liner portions
     (commonly and henceforth referred to as "tiles") are required to line a cyclone. To
 5  date the conventional method of producing cyclone components with these tiles is
    to adhere them to the internal steel surface of the cyclone shell. Given differential
    shrinkage between tiles, the amount of glue applied to each tile as well as the
    applicator's ability to force each tile into the correct position, the working surface of
    the cyclone (inner surface of the tile) is inevitably uneven. In use with slurries or
10  other fluids, this can lead to biased and more rapid wear of the cyclone interior
    tiles, as well as loss of cyclone efficiency.
                                   Summary of the Disclosure
15           In a first aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a method of forming a wear
     resistant minerals processing body including the steps of:
             assembling wear resistant elements to form a substantially continuous wear
     resistant surface against an outer surface of a form;
             locating a casing over the wear resistant elements with a space
20  therebetween;
             filling the space with a settable adhesive material;
             allowing the settable adhesive material to set in order to secure the wear
     resistant elements relative to the casing; and
             removing the form.
25
             In certain embodiments, the wear resistant minerals processing body may
     be a cyclone separator body or lower cone and spigot assembly. Alternatively, the
     processing body may be another static or rotating part, including but not limited to
     rotating drums and tumblers, lined pipe portions subject to accelerated wear and
30   the like.
             In certain embodiments, the wear resistant elements may comprise any
    suitable material of hardness, and other physical and/or chemical properties fit for

   WO 2015/017902                                                    PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                3
    the chosen purpose. Such materials may be limited in size due to the processes
    for their formation, requiring use in assemblies of wear resistant elements,
    Alternatively, the parts may be chosen to allow refurbishment by partial
     replacement.
 5
             In certain embodiments, the wear resistant materials may comprise
     isostatically hot pressed sintered materials including but not limited to alumina,
    silica, clay minerals, carbides or the like. The wear resistant material may be a
    fired or cast material. The wear resistant materials may be used as-formed or may
10   be machined or ground in post-forming.
             In certain embodiments, the wear resistant elements may be selected from
    specific shapes selected to fit in close abutment to form the substantially
    continuous surface. For example, for a minerals processing cyclone separator
15   body, the wear resistant elements may comprise specifically shaped elements
    adapted to form in assembly a frusto-conical wear surface with minimal gaps
     between the elements. Thus the surface formed by the wear elements is
    continuous in being both substantially smooth and substantially void free.
20           In certain embodiments, the wear resistant elements may be of different
     radial thickness. In the case of a cyclone, the lining may wear more aggressively
     in the lower (narrower) regions of the cyclone. It may therefore be beneficial to be
    able to use thicker linings in this region of the cyclone. As the wear surface is laid
     up on a form, and the space is selectable, the method may readily accommodate
25  different lining thickness. This offers cost and weight savings by avoiding having a
    thick lining throughout.
             The wear resistant elements may be retained in position on the form by any
    suitable means. For example, individual rows of wear elements may be retained
30   by tie wire, adhesive tape or the like. The adhesive tape may be adapted to
     accommodate a tapering form for a hydrocyclone liner by any suitable means such
     as lateral elastic or plastic deformation.     For example, the tape may comprise
     unidirectional fibre-reinforced tape, cross hatch reinforced tape or the like.

   WO 2015/017902                                                  PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                 4
             The form plays no part in the end use and as a consequence may be of any
     material adapted to support the wear resistant elements in position for the
     purposes of the method. In certain embodiments in the case of a cyclone
 5  separator body assembly or lower cone and spigot assembly, the form may have a
     substantially truncated-conical outer surface against which the wear resistant
    elements may be assembled. The form may be made of sheet metal,
             In certain embodiments, the casing may be formed of sheet or plate metal,
10   be cast of metal, polyurethanes or laminated in reinforced polymer, as the duty
     requires, In the case of cyclone separator assemblies the casing is usually of
    steel. The casing may be provided with end flanges; a cyclone separator body
    assembly may be provided with flanges at both ends in order to be mounted to
     inlet and lower cone and spigot equipment respectively.
15
             In certain embodiments, the space may be of any cross sectional dimension
    subject to permitting infiltration of the settable material.
             In certain embodiments, the settable material may in certain applications be
20  a resilient material such as polyurethane or rubber material. The material may in
     use penetrate the tine cracks between elements to prevent ingress of the mineral
     materials being processed.        The materials resilience offers improved impact
    absorption properties to the ceramic tile lining.
25           In the alternative, the settable material may comprise a mineral filled resin
     bound material. The mineral may comprise ceramic beads. The binder may
    comprise epoxy resin. Such materials maybe selected to deform minimally under
    the expected loads while offering a high degree of abrasion resistance.           This
     resistance to abrasive wear in conjunction with the wear indicating mechanism
30  outlined hereunder will allow the settable material to act as a secondary wear
     barrier once the primary tile lining has worn through thus facilitating planned
     maintenance or replacement.

   WO 2015/017902                                                   PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                 5
            In the case of mineral filled resin bound settable adhesive materials forming
    a secondary wear resistant layer, the cross sectional dimension of the space is at
     least 5mm, and preferably from 5 to about 25 mm.
 5          The lining material wears, irrespective of its wear resistance.      However,
     unlike sacrificial housings, composite minerals processing elements having a
    generally metallic outer housing lined with a wear resistant, usually ceramic
     material are difficult to remote sense for wear by penetrating radiation or
     ultrasound. This may be due at least in part to the dispersive effect of the
10   respective material boundaries This limitation means that ceramic wear linings
    can only be measured by mechanical or visual means. This requires extended
    downtime given the need to disassemble the cyclone prior to inspection and
     measurement.
15          In order to avoid unnecessary down time, the monitoring or testing may be
    done by remote sensing or other means of measurement from the outside of the
    closed equipment.       In certain embodiments, there may be included monitoring
     means in the space between the wear resistant elements and the body member.
     In certain embodiments, the monitoring means may include one or more
20  transducers, connected either singly or in arrays to an interface external of the
     body member. The transducer(s) may directly measure the thickness of a wear
     resistant element or elements it its location.
            Alternatively, in certain embodiments the monitoring means may comprise
25  one or more conductors each forming a continuity tester having an interface
    external of the body member, whereby wear through the wear resistant elements
     renders the conductor electrically discontinuous as monitored at the interface.
            In a second aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a method of forming a
30  wear indicating minerals processing body including the steps of:
            providing a substantially continuous wear resistant liner;
            locating one or more monitoring elements on an outer surface of the liner;
            locating a casing over the wear resistant liner with a space therebetween;

   WO 2015/017902                                                     PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                6
             providing a lead out from each monitoring element to an interface external
    of the casing;
            filling the space with a settable adhesive material; and
             allowing the settable adhesive material to set.
 5
            The wear resistant liner may be provided by assembling wear resistant
    elements to form the liner, as described above. In this context and hereinafter, the
    "outer surface" of the wear resistant liner is the surface opposed to the inner
    surface. The inner surface is the surface exposed to a high wear environment.
10  Wear through to the outer surface indicates a test failure state of the primary liner
    per se.
             In certain embodiments, the settable adhesive material may comprise a
    secondary wear resistant layer to provide time-to-shutdown flexibility on
15  determination of a worn condition of the wear resistant liner at the interface. An
    example of a secondary wear material is a mineral filled resin bound settable
    composition, such as a ceramic bead filled epoxy resin bound composition.
             In certain embodiments, the monitoring elements may include one or more
20  transducers, connected either singly or in arrays to an interface external of the
     body member.        The transducer may directly measure the thickness of a wear
     resistant element or elements it its location. Alternatively, in certain embodiments,
    the monitoring elements may comprise one or more conductors each forming a
    continuity tester, whereby wear through the wear resistant elements renders the
25  conductor electrically discontinuous as monitored at the interface.
            The conductor or conductors may be insulated by an abrasively frangible
     insulative material, or the conductor insulated from itself at junctions, to permit
     laying up in a grid pattern on the wear resistant liner. Insulation may be
30   particularly desirable to prevent leakage of current through conductivity of a
     mineral filler of the resin bound settable composition. In certain embodiments, the
    conductor or conductors may be spirally wound about the outer surface where
    there are no crossovers. Alternatively, in certain embodiments the conductor or

   WO 2015/017902                                                  PCT/AU2014/050176
                                               7
    conductors may be arranged in a zigzag, sinuous or other "up and back" pattern
    selected to provide practical wear-indicating coverage for the primary wear liner.
            The conductor or conductors may comprise an insulated wire conductor.
 5  The insulated wire conductor may comprise a multifilament cable for flexibility.
             In the case of a cyclone separator body, in certain embodiments a generally
    axial zigzag or sinuous pattern may have a spacing of the apices of the conductor
     at the frusto-conical base being larger than the spacing toward the narrower
10  truncation. Where the apex spacing at the base is deemed to be too large, such
    as to allow wear to be at risk of not being signalled, the axial extent may be
     monitored by two or more zigzag or sinuous conductors. In certain embodiments,
    where two or more zigzag or sinuous conductors are used, these may be axially
     interleaved. The apices of a zig-zag pattern may be radiused to avoid cold
15  working the conductive wire to brittleness.
             In certain embodiments, the lead-outs may comprise insulated wires
     passing through apertures through a side wall portion of the body member.
    Alternatively, the lead-outs may pass our through an end portion of the minerals
20   processing body.
            The interface may comprise electrical terminals or slip rings. Alternatively,
     in certain embodiments the interface may comprise a monitoring device connected
    to the monitoring element, including but not limited to an RFID device.
25
             In a third aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a method of forming a wear
     indicating cyclone separator component including the steps of:
             providing a     substantially truncated-conical wear resistant       cyclone
    component liner;
30           locating one or more wire conductors on an outer surface of the liner;
             locating a cyclone separator casing over the cyclone liner, an inner surface
    of the casing and the cyclone liner defining a space therebetween;

   WO 2015/017902                                                   PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                8
             providing a plurality of lead-outs from each conductor to external of the
    cyclone separator casing;
             filling the space with a settable adhesive material to secure the cyclone
    component liner relative to the cyclone separator casing; and
 5           allowing the settable adhesive material to set.
             The cyclone separator component may be selected from cyclone separator
     body assemblies and cyclone separator lower cone and spigot assemblies.
10   In a fourth aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a wear resistant mineral
     processing body including:
             a wear resistant, substantially smooth inner surface formed of a plurality of
    substantially abutting wear resistant elements; and
             a casing secured over and supporting the wear resistant elements by a
15   settable adhesive material filling a space between the casing and the wear
     resistant elements in assembly.
             In a fifth aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a wear indicating cyclone
    separator component including:
20           a substantially truncated-conical wear resistant cyclone liner formed of a
     plurality of wear resistant elements;
             one or more wire conductors located on an outer surface of the liner; and
             a cyclone separator component casing having a plurality of lead-outs from
    each the conductor and located over and secured to the cyclone liner by a settable
25  adhesive material filling a space therebetween.
             In each of the aforementioned further aspects, the settable adhesive
     material may comprise a secondary wear resistant layer.
30           In a sixth aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a wear resistant mineral
     processing body formed by a method of the aforementioned first aspect.

   WO 2015/017902                                                 PCT/AU2014/050176
                                               9
            In a seventh aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a wear indicating
    cyclone separator formed by a method of one of the aforementioned second or
    third aspects.
 5          Other aspects, features, and advantages will become apparent from the
    following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying
    drawings, which are a part of this disclosure and which illustrate, by way of
    example, principles of any inventions disclosed.
10                               Description of the Figures
            The accompanying drawings facilitate an understanding of the various
    embodiments.
15          Figure 1lis a perspective view of a crated cyclone separator assembly;
            Figure 2 is a portion of a cyclone assembly, in accordance with one
    embodiment of the present disclosure;
20          Figure 3 is a portion of a cyclone assembly, in accordance with a another
    embodiment of the present disclosure;
            Figure 4 is a perspective view of a partially-assembled wear resistant lining
    on a form, in accordance with one embodiment of the apparatus and of one
25  embodiment of the method of the present disclosure;
            Figure 5 is a cyclone body outer casing suitable for use in conjunction with
    the liner of Figure 6;
30          Figure 6 is a half-sectional view of a wear resistant cyclone body in
     accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;

   WO 2015/017902                                                    PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                10
             Figure 7 is a perspective view of an assembled wear resistant liner
    assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, which
    suitable for use with the cyclone body of Figure 4; and
 5           Figure 8 is a conductor lead-in detail of the cyclone body of Figure 4.
                                      Detailed Description
             Referring to Figure 1, there is provided a cyclone assembly 10 consisting of
10   an inlet assembly 11 and a lower cone and spigot assembly 12, separated by a
    cyclone body assembly 13, the latter secured to each of the inlet assembly 11 and
    the lower cone and spigot assembly 12 by respective flange abutments 14, 15.
    The inlet assembly has a tangential or cycloidal inlet 16 to, and an in use upper
    axial outflow from a ceramic-lined inlet portion 20.
15
             The lower cone and spigot assembly 12 includes a ceramic lined, lower
    cone 21 defining a separation zone in use for relatively large and/or dense
     particles of a feed slurry material during a cyclone separation operation, and an
     underflow outlet spigot 22 via which the separated particles pass in use during
20  discharge.
             As shown in Figures 2 and 6, the cyclone body assembly 13 includes a
     steel outer frusto-conical housing 23 having an in use upper inlet flange 24 and a
     lower underflow flange 25. A wear resistant liner assembly 26 comprising closely
25  abutting, isostatically pressed, sintered alumina blocks 27 of both axially tapered
     and circumferentially curved form, is arranged in serried circumferential rows 30,
    the joins 31 between adjacent blocks 27 in a row being offset from the joins 31 in
    the rows axially adjacent.
30           As can be seen in Figure 2, and in the detail shown in Figure 8, a
    conductive wire insulated by LINATEX@ rubber 32 forms an axially aligned zigzag
     pattern with radiused apices on the outer surface of the liner assembly 26. The
    wire insulated by LINATEX® rubber is 5-stranded, multifilament wire wherein each

   WO 2015/017902                                                   PCT/AU2014/050176
                                               11
    filament comprises 0.38mm brass coated crimped steel, the strands being twisted
    to form a bundle within the insulation cover. The conductive wire 32 is terminated
     by lead-outs 34 passing through the wall of the housing 23 via ceramic insulators
     35. The liner assembly 26 is spaced from the housing 23 by a 5-25 mm deep
 5  space 36. The liner assembly 26, conductive wire 32, lead-outs 34 and insulators
    35 are all encapsulated by and secured to the interior wall of the frusto-conical
     housing 23 by mineral filled epoxy resin encapsulant adhesive filler occupying the
    space 36. LINATEX@ is a registered trademark of Linatex Limited, a Weir Group
     PLC affiliate company.
10
            As can be seen in the alternative embodiment of Fig. 3, the conductive wire
    32 may be laid in a spiral on the outer surface of the liner assembly 26. In this
    embodiment the apertures 41 are located adjacent the respective flanges 24, 25.
15          To illustrate the method of the example, reference can be made to Figures
    3 and 7. The wear resistant liner assembly 26 is assembled from the isostatically
     pressed sintered alumina blocks 27 in the circumferential rows 30 by laying up the
     blocks 27 about a frusto-conical form, or mandrel 37, The layup is secured
    against collapse by strategic circumferential tie-wires or tape bands 40.
20
            After layup is complete, the conductive wire 32 is then laid up in either an
     axially aligned zigzag pattern (Fig. 2) or a circumferential spiral pattern (Fig. 3) on
    the outer surface of the liner assembly 26, and retained by occasional restraints
     (not shown). The lead-outs 34 are left long at this time.
25
            The frusto-conical housing 23 has apertures 41 to which are fitted the
    ceramic insulators 35. Each long lead-out 34 is passed through the housing 23
     and out through a respective insulator 35. During assembly of the final product,
    the lead outs 34 are continuously eased through the insulators 35 while the
30   housing 23 is lowered over the liner assembly 26.
            When the housing 23 is located completely over the liner 26, a ceramic
     bead filled epoxy resin encapsulant adhesive filler is then injected into the 5-25

   WO 2015/017902                                                     PCT/AU2014/050176
                                                 12
     mm space 36, in order to encapsulate the inner assembly 26, the conductive wire
    32, the lead-outs 34 and the insulators 35 and to bond the assembly thereof to the
     housing 23.
 5          After curing, the long lead-outs 34 may be trimmed and terminated, and the
    cyclone body assembly 13 assembled by mounting its upper inlet flange 24 and its
     lower underflow flange 25 to the inlet assembly 11 and to the lower cone and
    spigot assembly 12, respectively.
10          The lower cone and spigot assembly 12 is formed in substantially the same
    way as described for the body assembly 13 of the cyclone.
             In use, the encapsulant adhesive filler comprises a secondary wear layer.
    The lead-outs 34 each form a terminal between which a continuity tester (in this
15  case, a multimeter) may be connected. In the event that a discontinuity of the
    conductive wire 32 is detected, a worn state of the primary liner assembly 26 is
     inferred. Thereafter the operator may program a shut-down in an orderly fashion
     rather than in response to catastrophic failure. The secondary wear liner thus
     provides a management interval between an indication of failure and shut-down
20  and replacement of the worn assembly.
            Apparatus and methods in in accordance with the foregoing embodiment
    can reduce the labour required to manufacture cyclone components. The internal
    surface of cyclone component is relatively smoother than the prior art examples
25  since the inner surface is prepared by being laid up on a smooth form or mandrel.
    This reduces the turbulence generated by the interaction of the outlet surface of
    the layer of tiles and the circulating fluid within the cyclone chamber.
             Labour can also be reduced as each individual tile does not have to be
30  glued into its precise position, nor is it awkward for an operator to constantly need
    to reposition in order to place some tiles in specific locations down the inside wall
    of a cyclone housing, as is the known prior art methodology. In addition, the filled

   WO 2015/017902                                                    PCT/AU2014/050176
                                               13
    epoxy layer may accommodate any 'out-of-round' shape of the fabricated housing
    while maintaining a regular conical substantially smooth wear surface.
             Using a multimeter (or alternative) across the two exposed ends of the
 5  conductive wire, the "circuit" can easily and rapidly be tested for integrity without
    disassembly or interruption of the operating process.          Excess wear (which is
    evident if the "circuit" has been broken) warns the operator that the cyclone is
    operating with access to the secondary wear liner formed by the ceramic-bead
    filled epoxy, and that scheduled maintenance or replacement of the part is
10   required. Catastrophic failure is therefore avoided with planned maintenance
     becoming predictable.
             Forming cyclone linings against a form can also accommodate the use of
    wear elements of varying thickness This is a very useful alternative given that a
15  vertically oriented cyclone typically wears more aggressively at the in use lower
     regions of the cyclone. It may therefore be beneficial to be able to use thicker
     linings in this region of the cyclone. This ability to easily accommodate different
     lining thickness offers cost and weight savings, which is something not
    economically achievable using the traditional "tile laying method" on the inside of
20  the housing.
             In refurbishment, heating of the housing allows it to expand differentially
    from the epoxy/liner composite, allowing the word composite to drop out of the
    taper.
25
             In the foregoing description of preferred embodiments, specific terminology
     has been resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the invention is not intended
    to be limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be understood that each
    specific term includes all technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner
30   to accomplish a similar technical purpose. Terms such as "front" and "rear",
     "inner" and "outer", "above", "below", "upper" and "lower" and the like are used as
    words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
     limiting terms.

   WO 2015/017902                                                    PCT/AU2014/050176
                                               14
            The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
    derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken
     as, an acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that prior
 5   publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the
    common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
     relates.
            In this specification, the word "comprising" is to be understood in its "open"
10  sense, that is, in the sense of "including", and thus not limited to its "closed" sense,
    that is the sense of "consisting only of". A corresponding meaning is to be
    attributed to the corresponding words "comprise", "comprised" and "comprises"
    where they appear.
15          In addition, the foregoing describes only some embodiments of the
     invention(s), and alterations, modifications, additions and/or changes can be made
    thereto without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments,
    the embodiments being illustrative and not restrictive.
20          Furthermore, invention(s) have been described in connection with what are
     presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to
     be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments,
     but on the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent
    arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the invention(s). Also, the
25  various embodiments described above may be implemented in conjunction with
    other embodiments, for example, aspects of one embodiment may be combined
    with aspects of another embodiment to realize yet other embodiments. Further,
    each independent feature or component of any given assembly may constitute an
    additional embodiment.
30

                                             15
                                            Claims
1. A method of forming a wear indicating minerals processing body including the steps
of:
        providing a substantially continuous wear resistant liner;
        locating one or more monitoring elements on an outer surface of the liner;
locating a casing over the wear resistant liner with a space therebetween; providing a
lead out from each monitoring element to an interface external of the casing;
        filling the space with a settable adhesive material; and
        allowing the settable adhesive material to set.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the wear resistant minerals processing body
is selected from a cyclone separator body assembly and a cyclone separator lower cone
and spigot assembly.
3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the wear resistant liner is formed of wear
resistant elements.
4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the wear resistant elements comprise
isostatically pressed sintered alumina.
5. A method according to claim 3, wherein the wear resistant elements comprise
specifically shaped elements adapted to form in assembly a frusto-conical wear surface.
6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the monitoring elements include one or more
transducers connected to an interface external of the body member.
7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the monitoring elements comprise one or
more conductors each forming a continuity testing circuit element.

                                             16
8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the conductor or conductors are spirally
wound about the outer surface.
9. A method according to claim 7, wherein the conductor or conductors are arranged in
a pattern selected from generally zigzag, sinusoidal or circumferentially spiral pattern.
10. A method according to claim 2, wherein the monitoring elements comprise one or
more conductors each forming a continuity tester each arranged in a zigzag or sinusoidal
pattern having spacing of the apices of the conductor at a frusto-conical base portion of
the body being larger than the spacing toward an upper truncation portion of the body.
11. A method according to claim 10, wherein there are two or more axially interleaved
zigzag, sinusoidal or circumferentially spiral conductors.
12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the lead-outs comprise insulated wires
passing through apertures through a side wall portion of the casing.
13. A method according to claim 1, wherein the interface is selected from electrical
terminals, slip rings and RFID devices adapted to be connected to the monitoring
element.
14. A method of forming a wear indicating cyclone separator component including the
steps of:
        providing a substantially truncated-conical wear resistant cyclone component
liner;
        locating one or more wire conductors on an outer surface of the liner;
        locating a cyclone separator casing over the cyclone liner, an inner surface of the
casing and cyclone component liner defining a space therebetween;

                                             17
        providing a plurality of lead-outs from each conductor to external of the cyclone
separator casing;
        filling the space with a settable adhesive material to secure the cyclone liner
relative to the cyclone separator casing; and
        allowing the settable adhesive material to set
15. A wear indicating cyclone separator body including:
        a substantially truncated-conical wear resistant cyclone liner formed of a
plurality of wear resistant elements;
        one or more wire conductors located on an outer surface of the liner; and a
cyclone separator casing having a plurality of lead-outs from each conductor and located
over and secured to the cyclone liner by a settable adhesive material filling a space
therebetween.
16. A wear indicating minerals processing body when produced by a method of any one
of claims 1 to 13.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
