                                  ABSTRACT
        The present invention provides a sausage sizzle holder and serving
tray comprising an elongated body portion comprising a plurality of
channels, wherein an included angle of the plurality of channels is about
55 degrees to 75 degrees to receive and hold a sausage sizzle sandwich
therein, a flange extending outwardly from each end of the body portion
and at least one foot connected to the body portion such that a base of the
plurality of channels will lie above a supporting surface.

          1/3
              111
                  112         110
113
                       0    113
                     110a
    110
                          113
                     100
        FIG 1A

                                        1
                                     TITLE
                SAUSAGE SIZZLE HOLDER AND SERVING TRAY
                            FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5        The present invention relates to food serving trays and storage
   products. The present invention relates to a sausage sizzle holder and
   serving tray.
                      BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
10        Sausage sizzles are typically a fundraising and community event
   held to raise money for a particular cause, group or event. Sausage
   sizzles are well known and widely adopted across Australia and New
   Zealand    in  particular,  by schools,  sporting  clubs  and   non-profit
   organisations, general barbeques and commercially in markets and for
15 business promotions. The sausage sizzle involves people preparing and
   serving barbequed sausages which are served on a single slice of bread
   on a serviette together with a choice of grilled onions, cheese, mustard
   and tomato and barbeque sauce.
          Once the prepared sausages are ready they are handed over to the
20 customer in exchange for money. However, the problem arises when a
   customer is after a number of sausages or there are a large number of
   customers waiting to be served and there is nowhere to keep the prepared
   sausage sandwiches while more are being made. It is particularly difficult
   for mums holding infants or toddlers finding it awkward to pull out their
25 purse and exchange money single-handedly and then struggle to add

                                           2
   toppings and sauces. Consequently, service becomes slower which could
   result in lost sales with people waiting in line becoming impatient and
   choosing to leave. While an option is to have more people to serve the
   customers, sausage sizzles are typically unpaid events and it is often
 5 difficult to get people to volunteer their time. Sausage sizzles are held
   outdoor under a marquee. The table surface can often become wet from
   bad weather and/or spillages from toppings or drinks which are commonly
   served with the sausage sizzle sandwiches.
            A rack for serving individual portions of food by placing the servings
10 in open containers such as paper bags and delivering the food to the diner
   while maintaining them neat and securely upright to prevent the food from
   spilling from the open top is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,586,173. The
   bases of the successive slots are aligned to provide feet on which the rack
   may rest, for example upon a serving tray. The rack also provides a
15 means for detachably connecting together a plurality of the racks via lips
   at the end of the rack which enable corresponding elements of other racks
   to be linked together. It is noted when linked together, one end of the rack
   is raised higher than the other to overlie the adjacent rack making the
   base unbalanced.
20          Various trays have developed to try and address similar problems
   which arise for a taco. U.S. Patent No. 4,004,501 discloses a taco holding
   tray to support formed taco shells for filling and serving. The tray has a
   series of linear parallel spaced round bottom "V"-shaped troughs with
   inclined walls high enough to support all but about the last one inch wide

                                          3
   portion of the taco shell. An additional trough is provided at each end of
   the supporting trough to catch and hold any excess filling material from the
   taco shells. The included angle of the troughs is about 30 degrees to 40
   degrees to allow the taco shell to open sufficiently to allow filling. The
 5 height of the supporting trough walls is 2 to 2.5 centimeters. The diameter
   of the bottom of the supporting troughs is about 1.6 centimeters to match
   the normal bending radius of a cooked and formed taco shell so that as
   filling is placed in the taco shell, the bottom will be well supported. The
   troughs have a very wide opening for ease of filling however, this can lead
10 to spillage from the sides. This is particularly not suitable for a supporting
   a softer product such as a slice of bread which would flop open. While the
   invention provides an additional trough at each end, the resulting product
   is more complex, and expensive to manufacture.
            U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005/0023234 discloses a clip-on taco
15 holder for up to three (3) or more tacos which clips onto the edge of most
   any typical dinner or serving plate. This holder for taco shells is designed
   to not only hold the tacos in an upright position for filling the taco
   ingredients, but to clip onto the edge of a dinner plate for resistance to
   tipping-over while carrying the plate between the table and kitchen, lines
20 or passing between people. Each food receptacle includes a seat portion
   and side portions having lower portions and upper portions. Each lower
   portion defines an angle of approximately between 45 and 75 degrees
   relative to the seat portion and each upper portion defines an angle of
   approximately between 75 and 90 degrees relative to the seat portion. The

                                          4
   height of each food receptacle is about 5 centimeters. The upper portion
   of these food receptacle is designed to narrow the opening of the food
   receptacle. However, an opening so narrow can make it difficult to add
   toppings particularly in a sausage sizzle where tongs and other similar
 5 utensils which require a certain degree of clearance are used to add
   toppings.
           Paper bags and tacos have a generally tapered end. Hence, the
   prior art teach trays having receptacles with a narrow base to suit the
   tapered end of the paper bag or taco. Such a narrow base would not fit a
10 sausage sandwich or result in the bread breaking along the fold. All the
   prior art racks, trays and holders are designed such that the base rests
   directly upon a supporting surface. Therefore, any spill onto the supporting
   surface will ruin the stored food which would result in waste and loss of
   profits for a sausage sizzle. The racks, trays and holders of the prior art
15 must also be first placed onto serving trays or plates to be passed
   between people and/or transported from place to place. This requires
   additional cost and waste or washing efforts. Hence, there is a need for a
   product specifically designed to hold and support sausage sizzle
   sandwiches.
20         In this specification, the terms "comprises", "comprising" or similar
   terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a
   sausage sizzle holder that comprises a list of elements does not include
   those elements solely, but may well include other elements not listed.

                                           5
                           OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
          It is a preferred object of the present invention to provide a sausage
   sizzle holder and serving tray, that addresses or at least ameliorates one
   or more of the aforementioned problems of the prior art and/or provides
 5 consumers with a useful or commercial choice.
                          SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          Generally, embodiments of the present invention relate to a
   sausage sizzle holder and serving tray.
10        According to one aspect, although not necessarily the broadest
   aspect, the present invention resides in a sausage sizzle holder and
   serving tray comprising:
          an elongated body portion comprising a plurality of channels,
   wherein an included angle of the plurality of channels is about 50 degrees
15 to 75 degrees to receive and hold a sausage sizzle sandwich therein;
          a flange extending outwardly from each end of the body portion;
   and
          at least one foot connected to the body portion such that a base of
   the plurality of channels will lie above a supporting surface.
20        Preferably, the included angle of the plurality of channels is about
   67 degrees.
          Preferably, the channels are substantially v-shaped having a flat
   base and two angled side walls.

                                            6
            Preferably, the plurality of channels are equally spaced apart by a
   ridge therebetween.
            Preferably, the width and height of the ridge determines the angle
   of the channels.
 5          Preferably, when the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray is in a
   first orientation, the flange extends outwardly from a bottom end of the
   body portion of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray to support and
   stabilise the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray on a supporting
   surface.
10          Preferably, wherein when the sausage sizzle holder and serving
   tray is flipped over to lie in a second orientation, the flange extends
   outwardly from a top end of the body portion of the sausage sizzle holder
   and serving tray to provide a handle for use as a serving tray.
            Preferably, the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray further
15 comprises a handle attachable to a top end of the body portion of the
   sausage sizzle holder and serving tray such that the sausage sizzle holder
   and serving tray can be carried.
            Preferably, the height of the side walls is about 3 to 5 centimeters,
   preferably 3.5 centimeters.
20          Preferably, the width of the bottom of the channels is about 3 to 5
   centimeters, preferably 3.5 centimeters.
            Further features and forms of the present invention will become
   apparent from the following detailed description.

                                          7
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           In order that the invention may be readily understood and put into
   practical effect, reference will now be made to embodiments of the present
   invention with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein like
 5 reference numbers refer to identical elements. The drawings are provided
   by way of example only, wherein:
           FIG 1 shows a top perspective view of sausage sizzle holder and
   serving tray according to an embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG 1A shows a bottom perspective view of sausage sizzle holder
10 and serving tray according to an embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG 2 shows a side view of the sausage sizzle holder and serving
   tray of FIG 1;
           FIG 3 shows a top perspective view of the sausage sizzle holder
   and serving tray of FIG 1 holding a plurality of sausage sizzle sandwiches;
15 and
           FIG 4 shows an example of a foot which can be connected to a
   body portion of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray.
           Skilled addressees will appreciate that elements in the drawings
   are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been
20 drawn to scale. For example, the relative dimensions of some of the
   elements in the drawings may be distorted to help improve understanding
   of embodiments of the present invention.

                                          8
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           Embodiments of the present invention will be described with
   reference to a sausage sizzle holder and serving tray. The present
   invention   is specifically designed to be used for sausage sizzle
 5 sandwiches where barbequed sausages are served in a slice of bread.
   The sausage sizzle holder and serving tray is designed to allow a sausage
   and/or onion on a slice of bread to be placed on a serviette and folded in
   such a way that is stands almost upright within the holder so that
   customers can add their own sauces and toppings without having to hold
10 the sausage sizzle sandwich. It should be noted that the present invention
   is not designed to be used for holding other foods such as hotdogs or
   tacos. Similarly, a hotdog or taco holder would not be suitable for holding
   sausage sizzle sandwiches.
           Referring to FIGS 1 to 3, the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray
15 100 comprises an elongated body portion 110. The sausage sizzle holder
   and serving tray 100 is substantially rectangular in shape. The sausage
   sizzle holder and serving tray is made of stainless steel preferably, a food
   grade stainless steel. However, it is envisaged any other material suitable
   for use with food could also be adopted such as plastic, melamine,
20 cardboard or the like. It is envisaged in further embodiments, the thickness
   of the material of the body portion of the sausage sizzle holder and
   serving tray may be reduced to save costs by employing a darting or
   similar process along the edges of the holder and serving tray to provide
   rigidity and strength. It will be acknowledged that the colour, size and

                                         9
   dimensions of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray may be varied to
   meet the requirement of the invention. Similarly, the sausage sizzle holder
   and serving tray 100 may have any suitable labelling or design printed,
   imprinted or placed thereon.
 5          The body portion 110 comprises a plurality of channels 111 which
   are adapted to receive and hold a sausage sizzle sandwich therein, as
   illustrated in FIG 3. The channels 111 are substantially v-shaped having a
   flat base 111a and two angled side walls 111b, as shown in FIG 2. The
   included angle of the channels 111 is about 55 degrees to 75 degrees,
10 preferably 67 degrees, to allow the bread to be supported and unfold to a
   certain angle so sauces, onions and other toppings can be added easily
   without spilling out. The design of the sausage sizzle holder and serving
   tray also allows the sausage sizzle sandwich to be easily picked up and
   also allows multiples sandwiches to be collected at one time by grabbing
15 the sandwich and/or napkin of multiple sandwiches within the holder.
            FIGS 1 to 3 show an embodiment of the sausage sizzle holder and
   serving tray 100 having six channels 111 however, it will be appreciated
   that any number of channels 111 may be provided. Preferably, the
   sausage sizzle holder and serving tray 100 will have between four to six
20 channels. It is envisaged that multiple embodiments, will be provided with
   a varying and unlimited number of channels 111 to suit different
   preferences. It is noted that if there are too many channels 111 and the
   length becomes too excessive, the sausage sizzle holder 100 may
   become too long and cumbersome and may be too heavy depending on

                                          10
   the material being used for manufacture. If there are too few channels,
   multiple holders may be required.
           The body portion 110 of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray
   100 comprises a plurality of ridges 112 wherein a ridge 112 is located on
 5 either side of the channels 111. The plurality of channels 111 are equally
   spaced apart by the ridges 112. The width and height of the ridges 112
   determines the angle of the channels 111. The width and height have
   been carefully calculated and tested in the design of the present invention
   to ensure the sausage sizzle sandwich does not open and can be picked
10 up with one hand. The height of the side walls is about 3 to 5 centimeters,
   preferably 3.5 centimeters. The width of the bottom of the channels is
   about 3 to 5 centimeters, preferably 3.5 centimeters, to support a sausage
   sandwich therein. However, it is envisaged that these dimensions can be
   varied in alternative embodiments.
15         Provided at each end of the body portion 110 is a flange 113. When
   the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray 100 is in a first orientation, as
   shown in FIGS 1 to 3, the flanges extends outwardly from a bottom end
   11 Ob of the body portion 110 of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray
   100 to support and stabilise the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray
20 100 on a supporting surface. When the sausage sizzle holder and serving
   tray 100 is flipped over to lie in a second orientation, as shown in FIG 1A,
   the flanges 113 extends outwardly from a top end of the body portion 110
   of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray 100 to provide a handle for
   use as a serving tray. The second orientation also allows an additional

                                        11
   sausage sizzle sandwich 200 to be held therein.
          The body portion 110 may have permanent or removable feet 114
   (an example of which is shown in FIG 4) connected thereto such that, the
   bottom of the channels 111 is raised to lie above the supporting surface
 5 instead of sitting directly thereon. In this way, if there is a spill on the
   supporting surface, it will not be able to travel into the channel 111 and
   ruin a sausage sizzle sandwich 200 being held therein. In a further
   embodiment, it is further envisaged that the sausage sizzle holder and
   serving tray may also have provided a handle attachable to a top end
10 11 0a of the body portion 110 of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray
   100 such that the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray 100 can be
   carried and used as a serving tray.
           Hence, the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray provides a
   solution to the aforementioned problems of the prior art by providing a
15 sausage sizzle holder and serving tray which enables a person to add
   toppings and sauces to a sausage sizzle sandwich without holding the
   sausage sizzle sandwich. It also holds the sausage sizzle sandwich in a
   manner which enables people to pick one or more up using only one
   hand. By having a place to keep the prepared sausage sizzle sandwiches,
20 vendors are able to serve customers more quickly and efficiently. Further,
   the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray can be used in a dual
   orientation where it can be flipped over for use as a serving tray with an
   additional channel for an extra sausage sizzle sandwich. It should be
   noted that a hotdog or taco holder would not be suitable for holding

                                         12
   sausage sizzle sandwiches. To date, people have struggled with existing
   holders because they are simply not intended to be used with and cater
   for a sausage sizzle sandwich. Much experimentation and testing has
   been required in the present invention to derive an effective product
 5 specifically for a sausage sizzle sandwich. Similarly, the present invention
   is not designed to be used for holding other foods such as hotdogs or
   tacos.
           The reference to any prior art in this specification is and should not
   be taken as, an acknowledgment or any form or suggestion that the prior
10 art forms part of the common general knowledge.
           Throughout the specification the aim has been to describe the
   invention without limiting the invention to any one embodiment or specific
   collection of features. Persons skilled in the relevant art may realize
   variations from the specific embodiments that will nonetheless fall within
15 the scope of the invention.

                                          13
   1claim:
   1.      A sausage sizzle holder and serving tray comprising:
           an elongated body portion comprising a plurality of channels,
   wherein an included angle of the plurality of channels is about 55 degrees
 5 to 75 degrees to receive and hold a sausage sizzle sandwich therein;
           a pair of flanges, each said flange extending outwardly from each
   end of the body portion; and
           at least one foot connected to the body portion such that a base of
   the plurality of channels will lie above a supporting surface.
10 2.      The sausage sizzle holder and serving tray of claim 1, wherein the
   included angle of the plurality of channels is about 67 degrees.
   3.      The sausage sizzle holder and serving tray of claim 1,wherein the
   channels are substantially v-shaped having a flat base and two angled
   side walls.
15 4.      The sausage sizzle holder and serving tray of claim 1, wherein
   when the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray is in a first orientation,
   the pair of flanges extend outwardly from a bottom end of the body portion
   of the sausage sizzle holder.
   5.      The sausage sizzle holder and serving tray of claim 1, wherein
20 when the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray is flipped over to lie in a
   second orientation, the pair of flanges extend outwardly from a top end of
   the body portion of the sausage sizzle holder and serving tray to provide a
   handle for use as a serving tray.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
