DISPOSABLE COMMERCIAL KITCHEN GREASE FILTER
                             ABSTRACT
The Disposable Commercial Kitchen Grease Filter which is made up of a series of
same shaped panels (2D) which run uniformly from one side to the other, and are
secured and spaced in an attached frame, making for an Innovative step in design
(2A).
The Filter is designed to fit into the filter box area of a commercial kitchen's
overhead canopy and the Filter can be installed in any direction, meaning there is no
front or back of filter or top or base. It cosmetically looks and performs the same in
any direction.
The Filters said plates are all partially integrated with each other, whereby you
cannot see through the filter in any direction (2C). The filter is made of a light gauge
aluminium for easy crushing and disposal or re-cycling after only ONE use (liken to
a disposable foil baking tray).

                     c
                     LU
                Ly
                   vLL
                   0
Li-U
      ?A
     z          LL
                0
         L/UL
             CO

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are four pages of description only

DISPOSABLE COMMERCIAL KITCHEN GREASE FILTER
INNOVATIVE PATENT APPLICATION /      02/02/2018
FOR THE INVENTION BEING NAMED /
THE DISPOSABLE COMMERCIAL KITCHEN GREASE FILTER

DISPOSABLE COMMERCIAL KITCHEN GREASE FILTER
TECHNICAL FIELD /
Currently in restaurants and take away cooked food outlets around the world there
is a long life honeycomb or baffle kitchen filter, which is placed into a fixed overhead
canopy, directly over the cooking areas. Those filters are removed repeatedly from
the canopy and washed of soiled grease particles attached to the filters, from the
cooking vapour and replaced back into the canopy time after time. This long usage
results in the filter becoming cosmetically damaged with constant man handling. And
in most case those filters are unable to be guaranteed 100% clean, which can also
lead to perishable grease being trapped in the inner filter and framework.
My innovative inventive step, is a fully disposable filter which when soiled with
grease vapour, from the cooking top, which upon removal from the kitchen canopy
will be disposed of as rubbish or recycled after one use only (liken to a foil baking
tray).     A major benefit of this, is that it can eliminate the possibility of bacteria
becoming harboured if used as a 'disposable filter' and not rewashed.
TECHNICAL FEATURES /
The invention is made from a light gauge aluminium and its means of manufacture is
by manufacturing each piece individually, either by a roll forming machine process or
press/stamp using tooling to suit the parts' profile.
My design creates a vortex of air with grease vapour being drawn through the face
of the disposable filter (by use of the canopy kitchen upper extraction fan). This
coats the interior of the filter with the heavier grease molecule, using a grease
collection box (See figure 2B) which also assists in the making of the vortex within
the filter.

DISPOSABLE COMMERCIAL KITCHEN GREASE FILTER
This vortex creating area of the plate, is also designed to act as a grease dispenser,
which has grease collected in the filter internally to discharge itself by means of
gravity into the base of the filter and on into the kitchen canopy sump.
The inventions innovative step is a series of plates which separately run the full
length from left to right, at right angles to the filter face (See figure 2A+C) and are
each gapped equally, with each plate having its own pair of shoe spacers,(See figure
3) each plate has two shoes on each end (top & bottom of plate). Additionally, in
some filter sizes, an alternative design to the shoe spacer is a continuous spacer rail
which is fitted to two sides of the panels (See figure 5).
The invention has then two top and bottom frames attached which secure the plates
by means of a staple or fastener to the outer ends (See figure 1). Additionally, in
some filter sizes, a full one-piece wrap around frame is required (without rivets or
fasteners) to finish and secure the panels. (See figure 6).
The invention can be placed in the kitchen canopy filter box area in any direction
without having a front or rear of product or top or bottom.
The invention may be better understood with reference to the illustrations or
embodiments of the invention
Fig 1/ Is the top and bottom frame X2 of which fold partly over the plates and is
fastened at each corner of the design.
Fig2-D/ Is the drawing of one only of the said series of plates, showing an isometric
view and an end view. Fig2-B shows the vortex box section, with Fig2-A showing the
series of plates as seen on any side the same and Fig2-c shows 3 only of the said
plates (in section) with the top and bottom frames removed.

DISPOSABLE COMMERCIAL KITCHEN GREASE FILTER
Fig3/ A plate shoe spacer for each and every plate which allows a gap for air to pass
through with one pair of spacers to one plate, one at the top and one at the bottom,
with the outer frame being placed over both to finish.
Fig4/ Shows a Anti-rattle strip, which runs the full length of the filter within the outer
frames, this part of the product prevents the filter from having a noise, which can
be consistent with a rattling effect happening when the ducting draw fan is switched
on, and the air runs between the plates in the filter

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

DISPOSABLE COMMERCIAL KITCHEN GREASE FILTER
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
1 The Disposable Commercial Kitchen Grease Filter has a series of plates with each
plate having a rounded bullnose shape at its Centre with an outer channel edge on
both sides, the said plate's configuration is consistent in its length. (Fig 2D)
2 The Disposable Commercial Kitchen Grease Filter as claimed in claim 1 has each
said plate integrating partially with each and every other plate, running uniformly
with an equally space between each of the said plates. (Fig 2C)
3 The Disposable Commercial Kitchen Grease Filter as claimed in 1-2 has the said
equally spaced plates placed at 90 Degrees to the filters front or rear. (Fig 2A+2C)
4 The Disposable Commercial Kitchen Grease Filter according to any claims 1-3
wherein the Filters are made from Aluminium.
5 The Disposable Commercial Kitchen Grease Filter can substantially as herein before
described with reference to figures 2A, 2C and 2D of the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
