                                  ABSTRACT
The disclosed integrated manufacturing plant produces bio-coal from
biomass feedstock and bamboo cellulose fibre from bamboo feedstock
using an arrangement and configuration of equipment that is constructed
into modular units each having the dimensional and load capacity
characteristics of a standard intermodal container enabling the entire
arrangement to be transported cost effectively by road, rail and sea and
quickly re-assembled at locations where plentiful quantities of biomass
feedstock are identified. The concept of a transportable manufacturing
plant for bio-coal effectively eliminates the significant costs of
transporting biomass feedstock to the manufacturing plant, and is a key
enabler to commercial manufacture of bio-coal, which competes with
alternate fuels in a price driven market. Each modular unit is provided
with duplicated inter-connection points enabling the relative positions of
inter-connected units to be optimised such that the assembled plant
layout has a degree of independence from the constraints of the
installation site. The integrated bamboo cellulose fibre manufacturing
equipment utilises unused heat energy from the bio-coal manufacturing
process, maximising thermal efficiency of the plant to cost-effectively
manufacture a high quality, chemical free, bamboo cellulose fibre for use
in textiles destined for the high-end fashion industry.

              *0                                0
          m
                   z<LU                        fl
                                          EE
                        z0
02U                                ttL          1
         C                                      2b0
02-                  L.             ,           Co .-
         (UU
      020
            it
    0               (D 02
                               0)          0U0
                           v~( r  (U
                 o                     EDC E   03     -

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 4 pages of Description only

                                 AUSTRALIA
                             Patents Act 1990
                       COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                          INNOVATION PATENT
    ROAD TRANSPORTABLE, MODULAR, INTEGRATED
 PROCESSING PLANT FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF BIO
            COAL AND BAMBOO CELLULOSE FIBRE
The following statement is a full description of this Innovation Application:

   ROAD TRANSPORTABLE, MODULAR, INTEGRATED PROCESSING
     PLANT FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF BIO-COAL AND BAMBOO
                             CELLULOSE FIBRE
SUMMARY
[0001] Bio-coal is an emerging fuel that utilises biomass as a feedstock to
create a product with a calorific value typically in the range 19-23 GJ/T,
which compares favourably with coal at 23-28GJ/T. Significant
environmental benefits are realised by burning bio-coal as an alternative
to, or mixed with, conventional coal. The technology and processing plant
required to manufacture bio-coal, which uses torrefaction based
technologies, has been developed and a small number of plants with
varying capacity have been built, primarily in Europe and North America.
No bio-coal plants currently exist in Australia.
[0002] The manufacture of bamboo fibre used in textile manufacturing,
typically labelled rayon, currently utilises aggressive chemical processes
that are known to adversely affect the health of workers. Bamboo fibre
textiles have been used by the high-end fashion industry, which has
become less tolerant of supply chains that do not meet the expectations
of its customers. A latent demand exists in the high-end fashion industry
for a bamboo cellulose fibre, manufactured with measureable reductions
on the reliance of cheaper chemical processing technology.
Our innovative approach has eliminated the requirement for invasive,
Chemical-only processing.
Our system utilises Steam Technology, requiring minimal Organic
Chemical inclusion, with all residues of the organic chemicals removed
during the "Post Wash" process.
This Innovative Technology utilises the latent heat within the Bio-coal
equipment to generate the steam required for the Commercial production
of Bamboo Cellulose Fibre.

[0003] The integration and co-location of bio-coal and bamboo cellulose
fibre manufacturing - Steam Explosion facility - delivers relatively large
volumes of bio-coal and corresponding commercial volumes of bamboo
cellulose fibre in an energy efficient, reduced organic chemical solution
that has the potential to position Australia as a leading global supplier of
high quality bamboo cellulose fabric textiles.
[0004] Bio-coal is a market-price sensitive product that competes with
alternate fuel sources. Bamboo cellulose fabric, certified as 100% organic,
is a high demand product with limited alternate material availability and is
therefore a high value product.
[0005] In an Australian context, the locations of raw biomass feedstock
suitable for the manufacture of bio-coal are geographically diverse and
feedstock transportation costs quickly erode the value chain of a fixed
bio-coal manufacturing plant. By comparison, the volume of bamboo
required for an integrated bio-coal / bamboo cellulose fabric
manufacturing plant is relatively small, and coupled with the value
differential between the two products, transportation costs associated
with the raw bamboo product are not significant.
[0005] This innovation has been specifically devised to eliminate biomass
feedstock transportation costs by constructing a modular manufacturing
plant, suitable for transportation by road, rail and sea, which incorporates
features that facilitate plant layout flexibility ensuring that, subject to
certain minimum criteria, utilisation opportunities are not limited by site
specific constraints.
[0006] A manufacturing plant in accordance with this innovation
comprises inter-connected equipment housed in standard intermodal
containers. The manufacturing processes use biomass and bamboo
feedstock to produce a bio-coal product and a bamboo cellulose fabric

product. The manufacturing plant is arranged to maximise thermal
efficiency by; recovery and combustion of volatile gasses evolved during
the torrefaction process; utilisation of the combustion heat energy in the
torrefaction, feedstock drying and pre-heating processes; recovery of
heat energy from the bio-coal product cooling process; utilisation of bio
coal manufacturing waste heat and heat energy generated by the bio-coal
manufacturing process as the primary heat input source for the bamboo
fibre manufacturing process.

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 1 page of Claims only

                                CLAIMS
The claims defining the innovation are as follows:
1.     Equipment     required  to   process  raw,   untreated    biomass
feedstock and deliver a high-quality bio-coal product for use as an
alternative,    low-emission   fuel   source   constitutes   a    bio-coal
manufacturing plant which is integrated with equipment for the
manufacture of high quality bamboo cellulose fibre whereby surplus
and recovered heat energy from the bio-coal manufacturing plant is
utilised in a steam-explosion process.
2.     The integrated processing plant as claimed in claim 1 is
designed,    specified,  selected,   constructed,  formed,     packaged,
arranged and otherwise configured into modular units, each unit
having the form, dimensions, features, characteristics and general
specifications of a standard intermodal container is suitable for
transportation by road, rail and sea.
3.     The modular units as claimed in claim 2 incorporate inter
connection     points   whereby    mechanical    and   electrical    inter
connections between modular units are duplicated within each
modular unit.
4.     The modular units as claimed in claim 2 together with the
external connection points as claimed in claim 3 enable the layout
of the processing plant footprint to be varied to suit the available
process plant area for a specific location.
5.     The integrated processing plant as claimed in claim 1 can be
operated as a stand-alone bio-coal manufacturing plant

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - There is 1 page of Drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
