  1002230518
                                           ABSTRACT
           The present disclosure provides processes for the preparation of a compound of
  formula:
                        H3 CO
                              d     0N\               /-      N\    N
                                                                     HN
                             H3CO                                       OCH 3
5 which is useful as an antiviral agent. The disclosure also provides compounds that are
  synthetic intermediates.

   1002230518
                   PROCESSES FOR PREPARING ANTIVIRAL COMPOUNDS
                        CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
             This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. 2015274967, the
 5 entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                   FIELD
             The present disclosure relates generally to the field of organic synthetic methodology
   for the preparation of antiviral compounds and the synthetic intermediates prepared thereby.
                                             BACKGROUND
 0           Hepatitis C is recognized as a viral disease of the liver. Although drugs targeting the
   liver are in wide use and have shown effectiveness, toxicity and other side effects have
   limited their usefulness. Inhibitors of hepatitis C virus (HCV) are useful to limit the
   establishment and progression of infection by HCV as well as in diagnostic assays for HCV.
                                               SUMMARY
 5           The compound of Formula (A) is known to exhibit antiviral properties (WO
   2013/075029). Processes suitable for its production are disclosed herein.
             The present disclosure provides processes for making a compound of formula (A):
                           H3CO
                                 }NH                            Hi
                                         NyN    '-      /\              N
                                                                         HN   0
                                H3 CO-                                      OCH 3 (A)
             or a salt or solvate thereof.
20           In one embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula (A):
                           H3CO
                                        NH\N
                                                                         HN   0
                                H3CO-                                       OCH 3 (A)
             or a salt or solvate thereof, comprising the steps of:
             (a) contacting a compound of formula (I), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
   stereoisomers thereof:
                                                     0
                                          X0                  0
25                                                                  (I)
                                                      1

           with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                  PG     0
                                                           OH
                                          H3 CO-'               )
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                                     Y
                                            OG
 5                             H3CO                                    (G);
           (b) contacting the compound of formula (G) with a compound of formula (H) or salt
   thereof:
                                           HO
                                                   HN
                                                  H3Co      (H)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
10 or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                   0
                                   0
                                  PG
                                           0  -                   0
                       H3CO'                                          HN    0
                                                                         OCH 3 (B);
           (c) cyclizing a compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C):
                                                       0      H
                                                                    HN   0
                         H3CO-
                                                                       OCH 3  (C);
15         (d) dehydrogenating the compound of formula (C) under conditions sufficient to
   yield a compound of formula (D):
                                                     2

                                                                              O
                                                              H
                           H3CO-                                            OCH3  (D)
           (e) deprotecting the compound of formula (D) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (E) or a salt thereof:
                                                            HHC
                                                             N .
                                    <N/N
                                                                     HN     0
                        H3CO-                                           OCH 3  (E), and
 5         (f) contacting the compound of formula (E) with a compound of formula (F):
                                                   H   0
                                            H3CO   NS      OH
                                                 O
                                                 0         OH
                                                               (F)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (A),
   wherein PG is an amine protecting group, X and Y are each independently selected from the
   group consisting of halo, -OSO 2 R, -OP(O)OR, and -OP(O)(OR) 2, and R is alkyl, haloalkyl,
10 aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or substituted heteroaryl.
           In another embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula
   (A):
                         H3 CO
                                 d-                      -\N
                                               LO
                                                                          HN0
                              H3CO-                                           OCH3 (A)
           or a salt or solvate thereof, comprising the steps of:
15         (a) contacting a compound of formula (I-a), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
   stereoisomers thereof:
                                                   0
                                          0                   0
                                       Br                        Br
                                                                    (I-a)
           with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                     3

                                                  PG     O
                                                          OH
                                          H3 CO--             P)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G'), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                        0
                                       PG
                                          N                        Br
                              H3CO                                     (G')
 5         (b) contacting the compound of formula (G') with a compound of formula (H) or salt
   thereof:
                                           HO
                                                   HN
                                                  H3 CO    (H);
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                   0
                                    J                         00
                                   0
                       H3CO'                                         HN    0
10                                                                      OCH 3  (B);
           (c) cyclizing the compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C):
                                                        0    H
                                Nq  N\    N~/                 N
                                                              N
                                                                  HN     0
                         H3CO-
                                                                      OCH 3  (C);
           (d) dehydrogenating the compound of formula (C) under conditions sufficient to
15 yield a compound of formula (D):
                                                   0         H
                              PG                     /           N\/\
                                                                  HN     O
                         H3CO                                         OCH 3  (D);
                                                      4

           (e) deprotecting the compound of formula (D) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (E) or a salt thereof:
                                                        0      H
                                        N                    \N
                                                                      HN    0
                                   H  3   C0
                       H3CO-                                              OCH3  (E); and
           (f) contacting the compound of formula (E) with a compound of formula (F):
                                                     H     O
                                            H3CO     N        OH
                                                  Of          O
                                                  0
 5                                                               (F)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (A), wherein PG is an
   amine protecting group.
           Also provided herein is a process for preparing a compound of formula (D):
                                                                 H
                                   PG             N       0O           N
                                               NHN                             O
                          H3CO-                                             OCH3  (D)
10 comprising
           (a) contacting a compound of formula (I), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
   stereoisomers thereof:
                                                      0
                                          0                      0
                                                                     (I),
           with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                    PG      0
                                                              OH
15                                          H3 CO--               P)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                          PG                   0
                                                OYY
                                H3CO~                                       (G)
                                                       5

           (b) contacting the compound of formula (G) with a compound of formula (H) or salt
   thereof:
                                            HO
                                                   HN
                                                  H3CO     (H);
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
 5 or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                   0
                                                            0
                                       0G
                                     O                           ON
                       H3CO'                                           HN    0
                                                                          OCH3   (B);
           (c) cyclizing a compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C):
                                                          H
                                                                  HN    0
                       H3 CO-                                         OCH3   (C), and
10         (d) dehydrogenating a compound of formula (C) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (D),
           wherein PG is an amine protecting group, X and Y are each independently selected
   from the group consisting of halo, -OSO 2 R, -OP(O)OR, and -OP(O)(OR) 2 , and R is alkyl,
   haloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or substituted heteroaryl.
15         Also provided herein is a process for preparing a compound of formula (C):
                                                              H
                                          N
                                                       0O      N
                                                                     HN    0
                                    H   3   00
                          H3CO                                           OCH3  (C)
           comprising
           (a) contacting a compound of formula (I), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
   stereoisomers thereof:
                                                     6

                                                     0
                                         0                    0
                                                                  (I)
            with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                   PG   O
                                                         OH
                                           H3 CO--            P)
            under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G), stereoisomer thereof,
 5 or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                                      Y
                                             OG
                               H3CO                                     (G);
            (b) contacting the compound of formula (G) with a compound of formula (H) or salt
   thereof:
                                            HO
                                                    HN
                                                   H3CO    (H);
10          under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                 0
                                                             O"
                                   OG
                                                            0
                      H3CO'                                         HN
                                                                        OCH 3 (B); and
            (c) cyclizing a compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C),
15          wherein PG is an amine protecting group, X and Y are each independently selected
   from the group consisting of halo, -OSO 2 R, -OP(O)OR, and -OP(O)(OR) 2 , and R is alkyl,
   haloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or substituted heteroaryl.
            In another embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula
   (I-a), stereoisomer, or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                      7

                                                     0
                                         0                    0
                                      Br                         Br
                                                                    (I-a)
            comprising the steps of:
            (a) cyclizing a compound of formula (L):
                                                      0
                                               o                o (L)
 5          under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (K):
                                                   0
                                       0    -               0
                                                               (K) and
            (b) brominating the compound of formula (K) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (I-a),
            wherein Z is hydrogen, halo, -OS0 2 RI, -BF3,     -B(OR 2) 2 , -CO 2 H, or -NR 1
                                                                                            3 wherein R1
10 is alkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or substituted heteraryl, and R2 is alkyl.
            Also provided are processes for preparing a compound of formula (K):
                                                     0
                                         0      -0
                                                                  (K)
            comprising reacting a compound of formula (0):
                                                     0
                                                              0
                                                                 (0)
15          under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (K).
            In another embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula
   (K):
                                                     0
                                         0      -0
                                                                  (K)
            comprising hydrolyzing a compound of formula (P):
                                         0'                    0
20                                                                (P)
            wherein R7 is alkyl, under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (K).
                                                       8

            In another embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula
   (K):
                                                       0
                                        0       -0
                                                                   (K)
            comprising derivatizing a compound of formula (Q):
                                                        0
                                                                 0
 5                                                                 (Q)
            under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula K.
            In one embodiment, a compound of formula (R):
                                             R4N0         N
                                                    o     H    (R)
10 is prepared by (a) cyclizing a compound of formula (U):
                                                           0
                                            R4O       .NH
                                                   o     PG     (U)
            under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (V):
                                           4
                                          R -0
                                                o      PG    (V) and
            (b) contacting the compound of formula (V) with an acid under conditions sufficient
15 to yield the complex of formula (R), wherein PG is an amine protecting group and R4 is an
   optionally substituted alkyl or optionally substituted aryl. In some embodiments, salts of (R)
   may be synthesized using certain acids such as para-toluenesulfonic acid, camphor sulfonic
   acid, methane sulfonic acid, benzene sulfonic acid, or p-bromobenzene sulfonic acid, among
   others. In particular embodiments R4 is alkyl and in more particular embodiments R 4 is ethyl.
20          In one specific embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a salt of (R) wherein
   R 4 is ethyl which is a complex of formula (R-a):
                                                               SO 3H
                                                N
                                                H
                                                                     (R-a)
            comprising the steps of:
                                                        9

           (a) cyclizing a compound of formula (U'):
                                                        0
                                                  f"'NH
                                                 O     PG     (U')
           under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (V'):
                                              0     PG      (V') and
 5         (b) contacting the compound of formula (V') with para-toluenesulfonic acid, wherein
   PG is an amine protecting group, under conditions sufficient to yield the complex of formula
   (R-a).
           Also provided herein is a process for preparing a compound of formula (J) or salt
   thereof:
                                                   PG      O
                                                            OH
10                                        H3 CO--               P)
           comprising the steps of:
           (a) contacting a compound of formula (W):
                                           PG1-O        PG   (W)
           with a hydroboration reagent under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of
15 formula (X):
                                                           HO
                                                  0'
                                                       ""N
                                              PG1-O        PG  (X)
           (b) methylating the compound of formula (X) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (Y):
                                                 H3CO
                                               00
                                           HO      PG     (Y) and
                                                      10

            (c) resolving the compound of formula (Y) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (J), wherein PG is an amine protecting group and PG 1 is a carboxylic
   acid protecting group.
            In other embodiments, the disclosure provides intermediate compounds that are useful
 5 in the processes described herein. Thus, for instance, one embodiment is a compound of the
   formula L:
                                                     0
                                              o               o (L)
            wherein Z is hydrogen, halo, -OS0 2 R, -BF3,    -B(OR 2) 2 , , -CO 2 H, or -NR 1
                                                                                            3 wherein
   R1 is alkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or substituted heteroaryl, and R2 is
10 alkyl.
            Also provided herein are compounds of formula (Q):
                                                    0
                                                            0
                                                               (Q).
            The inventions of this disclosure are described throughout. In addition, specific
   embodiments are as disclosed herein.
15
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Definitions and General Parameters
            As used in the present specification, the following words and phrases are generally
   intended to have the meanings as set forth below, except to the extent that the context in
20 which they are used indicates otherwise.
            The term "alkyl" refers to a monoradical branched or unbranched saturated
   hydrocarbon chain having from I to 20 carbon atoms, or from I to 15 carbon atoms, or from
    I to 10 carbon atoms, or from I to 8 carbon atoms, or from I to 6 carbon atoms, or from I to
   4 carbon atoms. This term is exemplified by groups such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso
25 propyl, n-butyl, iso-butyl, t-butyl, n-hexyl, n-decyl, tetradecyl, and the like.
            The term "substituted alkyl" refers to:
             1)     an alkyl group as defined above, having 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents, (in some
            embodiments, 1, 2 or 3 substituents) selected from the group consisting of alkenyl,
            alkynyl, alkoxy, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkoxy, cycloalkenyloxy, acyl,
30          acylamino, acyloxy, amino, substituted amino, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonylamino,
                                                     II

           azido, cyano, halogen, hydroxy, keto, thiocarbonyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, arylthio,
           heteroarylthio, heterocyclylthio, thiol, alkylthio, aryl, aryloxy, heteroaryl,
           aminosulfonyl, aminocarbonylamino, heteroaryloxy, heterocyclyl, heterocyclooxy,
           hydroxyamino, alkoxyamino, nitro, -S(O)-alkyl, -S(O)-cycloalkyl, -S(O)
 5         heterocyclyl, -S(O)-aryl, -S(O)-heteroaryl, -S(O) 2 -alkyl, -S(O) 2-cycloalkyl, -S(O) 2
           heterocyclyl, -S(O) 2 -aryl and -S(O) 2-heteroaryl. Unless otherwise constrained by the
           definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or 3
           substituents chosen from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl,
           aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano,
10         cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O),1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or
           heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2; or
           2)      an alkyl group as defined above that is interrupted by 1-10 atoms (e.g. 1, 2, 3,
           4 or 5 atoms) independently chosen from oxygen, sulfur and NRa, where Ra is chosen
           from hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl and
15         heterocyclyl. All substituents may be optionally further substituted by alkyl, alkenyl,
           alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3 ,
           amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
           and -S(O),1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2; or
           3)      an alkyl group as defined above that has both 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents as
20         defined above and is also interrupted by 1-10 atoms (e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 atoms) as
           defined above.
           The term "haloalkyl" refers to an alkyl group substituted with one or more halogen
   groups. For example, "C1 3 haloalkyl" refers to an alkyl group having from 1 to 3 carbon
   atoms covalently bonded to from I to 7, or from I to 6, or from I to 3, halogen(s), where
25 alkyl and halogen are defined herein. In some embodiments, C1 3 haloalkyl includes, by way
   of example, trifluoromethyl, difluoromethyl, fluoromethyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, 2,2
   difluoroethyl, 2-fluoroethyl, 3,3,3-trifluoropropyl, 3,3-difluoropropyl, 3-fluoropropyl.
           The term "lower alkyl" refers to a monoradical branched or unbranched saturated
   hydrocarbon chain having 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 carbon atoms. This term is exemplified by groups
30 such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, iso-butyl, t-butyl, n-hexyl, and the like.
           The term "substituted lower alkyl" refers to lower alkyl as defined above having 1 to
   5 substituents (in some embodiments, 1, 2 or 3 substituents), as defined for substituted alkyl
   or a lower alkyl group as defined above that is interrupted by 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 atoms as defined
                                                    12

   for substituted alkyl or a lower alkyl group as defined above that has both 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
   substituents as defined above and is also interrupted by 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 atoms as defined above.
            The term "alkylene" refers to a diradical of a branched or unbranched saturated
   hydrocarbon chain, in some embodiments, having from I to 20 carbon atoms (e.g. 1-10
 5 carbon atoms or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 carbon atoms). This term is exemplified by groups such as
   methylene (-CH 2-), ethylene (-CH 2CH 2-), the propylene isomers (e.g., -CH 2CH 2CH 2
   and -CH(CH 3)CH 2-), and the like.
            The term "lower alkylene" refers to a diradical of a branched or unbranched saturated
   hydrocarbon chain, in some embodiments, having 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 carbon atoms.
10          The term "substituted alkylene" refers to an alkylene group as defined above having 1
   to 5 substituents (in some embodiments, 1, 2 or 3 substituents) as defined for substituted
   alkyl.
            The term "alkenyl" refers to a monoradical of a branched or unbranched unsaturated
   hydrocarbon group having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms (in some embodiments, from 2 to 10
15 carbon atoms, e.g. 2 to 6 carbon atoms) and having from I to 6 carbon-carbon double bonds,
   e.g. 1, 2 or 3 carbon-carbon double bonds. In some embodiments, alkenyl groups include
   ethenyl (or vinyl, i.e. -CH=CH 2), 1-propylene (or allyl, i.e. -CH 2CH=CH 2), isopropylene
   (-C(CH3)=CH 2), and the like.
            The term "lower alkenyl" refers to alkenyl as defined above having from 2 to 6
20 carbon atoms.
            The term "substituted alkenyl" refers to an alkenyl group as defined above having 1 to
   5 substituents (in some embodiments, 1, 2 or 3 substituents) as defined for substituted alkyl.
            The term "alkoxy" refers to the group R-O-, where R is alkyl or -Y-Z, in which Y is
   alkylene and Z is alkenyl or alkynyl, where alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl are as defined herein.
25 In some embodiments, alkoxy groups are alkyl-O- and includes, by way of example,
   methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, iso-propoxy, n-butoxy, tert-butoxy, sec-butoxy, n-pentoxy, n
   hexyloxy, 1,2-dimethylbutoxy, and the like.
            The term "lower alkoxy" refers to the group R-0- in which R is optionally substituted
   lower alkyl. This term is exemplified by groups such as methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, iso
30 propoxy, n-butoxy, iso-butoxy, t-butoxy, n-hexyloxy, and the like.
            The term "substituted alkoxy" refers to the group R-O-, where R is substituted alkyl
   or -Y-Z, in which Y is substituted alkylene and Z is substituted alkenyl or substituted alkynyl,
   where substituted alkyl, substituted alkenyl and substituted alkynyl are as defined herein.
                                                   13

           The term "alkynyl" refers to a monoradical of an unsaturated hydrocarbon, in some
   embodiments, having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms (in some embodiments, from 2 to 10 carbon
   atoms, e.g. 2 to 6 carbon atoms) and having from I to 6 carbon-carbon triple bonds e.g. 1, 2
   or 3 carbon-carbon triple bonds. In some embodiments, alkynyl groups include ethynyl
 5 (-CaCH), propargyl (or propynyl, i.e. -CaCCH 3), and the like.
           The term "substituted alkynyl" refers to an alkynyl group as defined above having 1
   to 5 substituents (in some embodiments, 1, 2 or 3 substituents) as defined for substituted
   alkyl.
           The term "alkynylene" refers to a diradical of an unsaturated hydrocarbon, in some
10 embodiments, having from 2 to 20 carbon atoms (in some embodiments, from 2 to 10 carbon
   atoms, e.g. 2 to 6 carbon atoms) and having from I to 6 carbon-carbon triple bonds e.g. 1, 2
   or 3 carbon-carbon triple bonds.
           The term "cycloalkyl" refers to cyclic alkyl groups of from 3 to 20 carbon atoms, or
   from 3 to 10 carbon atoms, having a single cyclic ring or multiple condensed rings. Such
15 cycloalkyl groups include, by way of example, single ring structures such as cyclopropyl,
   cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclooctyl and the like or multiple ring structures such as
   adamantanyl and bicyclo[2.2. 1]heptanyl or cyclic alkyl groups to which is fused an aryl
   group, for example indanyl, and the like, provided that the point of attachment is through the
   cyclic alkyl group.
20         The term "cycloalkenyl" refers to cyclic alkyl groups of from 3 to 20 carbon atoms
   having a single cyclic ring or multiple condensed rings and having at least one double bond
   and in some embodiments, from 1 to 2 double bonds.
           The terms "substituted cycloalkyl" and "susbstituted cycloalkenyl" refer to cycloalkyl
   or cycloalkenyl groups having 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents (in some embodiments, 1, 2 or 3
25 substituents), selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, alkoxy,
   cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkoxy, cycloalkenyloxy, acyl, acylamino, acyloxy, amino,
   substituted amino, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonylamino, azido, cyano, halogen, hydroxy,
   keto, thiocarbonyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, arylthio, heteroarylthio, heterocyclylthio, thiol,
   alkylthio, aryl, aryloxy, heteroaryl, aminosulfonyl, aminocarbonylamino, heteroaryloxy,
30 heterocyclyl, heterocyclooxy, hydroxyamino, alkoxyamino, nitro, -S(O)-alkyl, -S(O)
   cycloalkyl, -S(O)-heterocyclyl, -S(O)-aryl,-S(O)-heteroaryl, -S(O) 2 -alkyl, -S(0) 2
   cycloalkyl, -S(O) 2-heterocyclyl, -S(O) 2 -aryl and -S(O) 2 -heteroaryl. The term "substituted
   cycloalkyl" also includes cycloalkyl groups wherein one or more of the annular carbon atoms
                                                    14

   of the cycloalkyl group has an oxo group bonded thereto. In addition, a substituent on the
   cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl may be attached to the same carbon atom as, or is geminal to, the
   attachment of the substituted cycloalkyl or cycloalkenyl to the 6,7-ring system. Unless
   otherwise constrained by the definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted
 5 by 1, 2 or 3 substituents chosen from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl,
   aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl,
   heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O) 1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0,
   1 or 2.
            The term "cycloalkoxy" refers to the group cycloalkyl-O-.
10          The term "substituted cycloalkoxy" refers to the group substituted cycloalkyl-O-.
            The term "cycloalkenyloxy" refers to the group cycloalkenyl-O-.
            The term "substituted cycloalkenyloxy" refers to the group substituted
   cycloalkenyl-O-.
            The term "aryl" refers to an aromatic carbocyclic group of 6 to 20 carbon atoms
15 having a single ring (e.g., phenyl) or multiple rings (e.g., biphenyl) or multiple condensed
   (fused) rings (e.g., naphthyl, fluorenyl and anthryl). In some embodiments, aryls include
   phenyl, fluorenyl, naphthyl, anthryl, and the like.
           Unless otherwise constrained by the definition for the aryl substituent, such aryl
   groups can optionally be substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents (in some embodiments,
20 1, 2 or 3 substituents), selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, alkoxy,
   cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkoxy, cycloalkenyloxy, acyl, acylamino, acyloxy, amino,
   substituted amino, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonylamino, azido, cyano, halogen, hydroxy,
   keto, thiocarbonyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, arylthio, heteroarylthio, heterocyclylthio, thiol,
   alkylthio, aryl, aryloxy, heteroaryl, aminosulfonyl, aminocarbonylamino, heteroaryloxy,
25 heterocyclyl, heterocyclooxy, hydroxyamino, alkoxyamino, nitro, -S(O)-alkyl, -S(O)
   cycloalkyl, -S(O)-heterocyclyl, -S(O)-aryl,-S(O)-heteroaryl, -S(O) 2 -alkyl, -S(O) 2
   cycloalkyl, -S(O) 2-heterocyclyl, -S(O) 2 -aryl and -S(O) 2 -heteroaryl. Unless otherwise
   constrained by the definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or
   3 substituents chosen from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl,
30 hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl,
   aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O) 1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
           The term "aryloxy" refers to the group aryl-O- wherein the aryl group is as defined
   above, and includes optionally substituted aryl groups as also defined above. The term
   "arylthio" refers to the group R-S-, where R is as defined for aryl.
                                                    15

           The term "heterocyclyl," "heterocycle," or "heterocyclic" refers to a monoradical
   saturated group having a single ring or multiple condensed rings, having from 1 to 40 carbon
   atoms and from I to 10 hetero atoms, and from I to 4 heteroatoms, selected from nitrogen,
   sulfur, phosphorus, and/or oxygen within the ring. In some embodiments, the heterocyclyl,"
 5 "heterocycle," or "heterocyclic" group is linked to the remainder of the molecule through one
   of the heteroatoms within the ring.
           Unless otherwise constrained by the definition for the heterocyclic substituent, such
   heterocyclic groups can be optionally substituted with 1 to 5 substituents (in some
   embodiments, 1, 2 or 3 substituents), selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl,
10 alkynyl, alkoxy, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkoxy, cycloalkenyloxy, acyl, acylamino,
   acyloxy, amino, substituted amino, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonylamino, azido, cyano,
   halogen, hydroxy, keto, thiocarbonyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, arylthio, heteroarylthio,
   heterocyclylthio, thiol, alkylthio, aryl, aryloxy, heteroaryl, aminosulfonyl,
   aminocarbonylamino, heteroaryloxy, heterocyclyl, heterocyclooxy, hydroxyamino,
15 alkoxyamino, nitro, -S(O)-alkyl, -S(O)-cycloalkyl, -S(O)-heterocyclyl, -S(O)-aryl,-S(O)
   heteroaryl, -S(O) 2 -alkyl, -S(O) 2-cycloalkyl, -S(O) 2-heterocyclyl, -S(O) 2 -aryl and -S(O) 2
   heteroaryl. In addition, a substituent on the heterocyclic group may be attached to the same
   carbon atom as, or is geminal to, the attachment of the substituted heterocyclic group to the
   6,7-ring system. Unless otherwise constrained by the definition, all substituents may
20 optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents chosen from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
   carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted
   amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O),1 Ra, in which Ra is alkyl,
   aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2. Examples of heterocyclics include tetrahydrofuranyl,
   morpholino, piperidinyl, and the like.
25         The term "heterocyclooxy" refers to the group -0-heterocyclyl.
           The term "heteroaryl" refers to a group comprising single or multiple rings
   comprising I to 15 carbon atoms and I to 4 heteroatoms selected from oxygen, nitrogen and
   sulfur within at least one ring. The term "heteroaryl" is generic to the terms "aromatic
   heteroaryl" and "partially saturated heteroaryl". The term "aromatic heteroaryl" refers to a
30 heteroaryl in which at least one ring is aromatic, regardless of the point of attachment.
   Examples of aromatic heteroaryls include pyrrole, thiophene, pyridine, quinoline, pteridine.
           The term "partially saturated heteroaryl" refers to a heteroaryl having a structure
   equivalent to an underlying aromatic heteroaryl which has had one or more double bonds in
   an aromatic ring of the underlying aromatic heteroaryl saturated. Examples of partially
                                                     16

   saturated heteroaryls include dihydropyrrole, dihydropyridine, chroman, 2-oxo-1,2
   dihydropyridin-4-yl, and the like.
           Unless otherwise constrained by the definition for the heteroaryl substituent, such
   heteroaryl groups can be optionally substituted with 1 to 5 substituents (in some
 5 embodiments, 1, 2 or 3 substituents) selected from the group consisting alkyl, alkenyl,
   alkynyl, alkoxy, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, cycloalkoxy, cycloalkenyloxy, acyl, acylamino,
   acyloxy, amino, substituted amino, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonylamino, azido, cyano,
   halogen, hydroxy, keto, thiocarbonyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, arylthio, heteroarylthio,
   heterocyclylthio, thiol, alkylthio, aryl, aryloxy, heteroaryl, aminosulfonyl,
10 aminocarbonylamino, heteroaryloxy, heterocyclyl, heterocyclooxy, hydroxyamino,
   alkoxyamino, nitro, -S(O)-alkyl, -S(O)-cycloalkyl, -S(O)-heterocyclyl, -S(O)-aryl,-S(O)
   heteroaryl, -S(O) 2 -alkyl, -S(O) 2-cycloalkyl, -S(O) 2-heterocyclyl, -S(O) 2 -aryl and -S(0) 2
   heteroaryl. Unless otherwise constrained by the definition, all substituents may optionally be
   further substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents chosen from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy,
15 carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino,
   cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O),1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or
   heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2. Such heteroaryl groups can have a single ring (e.g., pyridyl or
   furyl) or multiple condensed rings (e.g., indolizinyl, benzothiazole or benzothienyl).
   Examples of nitrogen heterocyclyls and heteroaryls include, but are not limited to, pyrrole,
20 imidazole, pyrazole, pyridine, pyrazine, pyrimidine, pyridazine, indolizine, isoindole, indole,
   indazole, purine, quinolizine, isoquinoline, quinoline, phthalazine, naphthylpyridine,
   quinoxaline, quinazoline, cinnoline, pteridine, carbazole, carboline, phenanthridine, acridine,
   phenanthroline, isothiazole, phenazine, isoxazole, phenoxazine, phenothiazine, imidazolidine,
   imidazoline, and the like as well as N-alkoxy-nitrogen containing heteroaryl compounds.
25         The term "heteroaryloxy" refers to the group heteroaryl-O-.
           The term "benzyl" refers to the group -CH 2 -C 6H5 .
           The term "amino" refers to the group -NH2.
           The term "amine" refers to substituted amino, alkyl amine, dialkylamine, or trialkyl
   amine groups.
30         The term "substituted amino" refers to the group -NRR where each R is
   independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl,
   heteroaryl and heterocyclyl provided that both R groups are not hydrogen or a group -Y-Z, in
   which Y is optionally substituted alkylene and Z is alkenyl, cycloalkenyl or alkynyl. Unless
   otherwise constrained by the definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted
                                                     17

   by 1, 2 or 3 substituents chosen from alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl,
   aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl,
   heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O) 1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0,
    1 or 2.
 5          The term "alkyl amine" refers to R-NH 2 in which R is optionally substituted alkyl.
            The term "dialkyl amine" refers to R-NHR in which each R is independently an
   optionally substituted alkyl.
            The term "trialkyl amine" refers to NR 3 in which each R is independently an
   optionally substituted alkyl.
10          The term "cyano" refers to the group -CN.
                                                      Go
            The term "azido" refers to a group -N=N=N      .
            The term "nitro" refers to a group -NO 2.
            The term "keto" or "oxo" refers to a group =0.
            The term "carboxy" refers to a group -C(O)-OH.
15          The term "ester" or "carboxyester" refers to the group -C(O)OR, where R is alkyl,
   cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heterocyclyl, which may be optionally further substituted by
   alkyl, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano or -S(O) 1 Ra, in which Ra is
   alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
            The term "acyl" denotes the group -C(O)R, in which R is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl,
20 heterocyclyl, aryl or heteroaryl. Unless otherwise constrained by the definition, all
   substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from the
   group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy,
   alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl,
   heteroaryl, and -S(O),1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
25          The term "acyl halide" denotes the group -C(O)RX, in which R is hydrogen, alkyl,
   cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl or heteroaryl. X is a halide group. The term "halide" halide ion
   refers to a halogen atom bearing a negative charge. Unless otherwise constrained by the
   definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents
   selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl,
30 aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl,
   heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O) 1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0,
    1 or 2.
                                                    18

            The term "carboxyalkyl" refers to the groups -C(O)O-alkyl or -C(O)O-cycloalkyl,
   where alkyl and cycloalkyl are as defined herein, and may be optionally further substituted by
   alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen,
   CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
 5 and -S(O) 1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
            The term "aminocarbonyl" refers to the group -C(O)NRR where each R is
   independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, or heterocyclyl, or where both R
   groups are joined to form a heterocyclic group (e.g., morpholino). Unless otherwise
   constrained by the definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or
10 3 substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy,
   carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino,
   cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O),1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or
   heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
            The term "acyloxy" refers to the group -OC(O)-R, in which R is alkyl, cycloalkyl,
15 heterocyclyl, aryl or heteroaryl. Unless otherwise constrained by the definition, all
   substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from the
   group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy,
   alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl,
   heteroaryl, and -S(O),1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
20          The term "acylamino" refers to the group -NRC(O)R where each R is independently
   hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heterocyclyl. Unless otherwise constrained by
   the definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents
   selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl,
   aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl,
25 heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O) 1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0,
    1 or 2.
            The term "alkoxycarbonylamino" refers to the group -N(R d)C(O)OR in which R is
   alkyl and Rd is hydrogen or alkyl. Unless otherwise constrained by the definition, each alkyl
   may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from the group
30 consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy,
   halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
   and -S(O) 1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
            The term "aminocarbonylamino" refers to the group -NRcC(O)NRR, wherein Rc is
   hydrogen or alkyl and each R is hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heterocyclyl.
                                                    19

   Unless otherwise constrained by the definition, all substituents may optionally be further
   substituted by 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl,
   alkynyl, carboxy, carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino,
   substituted amino, cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O) 1Ra, in which
 5 Ra is alkyl, aryl or heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
           The term "thiol" refers to the group -SH.
           The term "thiocarbonyl" refers to a group =S.
           The term "alkylthio" refers to the group -S-alkyl.
           The term "substituted alkylthio" refers to the group -S-substituted alkyl.
10         The term "heterocyclylthio" refers to the group -S-heterocyclyl.
           The term "arylthio" refers to the group -S-aryl.
           The term "heteroarylthio" refers to the group -S-heteroaryl wherein the heteroaryl
   group is as defined above including optionally substituted heteroaryl groups as also defined
   above.
15         The term "sulfoxide" refers to a group -S(O)R, in which R is alkyl, cycloalkyl,
   heterocyclyl, aryl or heteroaryl. "Substituted sulfoxide" refers to a group -S(O)R, in which R
   is substituted alkyl, substituted cycloalkyl, substituted heterocyclyl, substituted aryl or
   substituted heteroaryl, as defined herein.
           The term "aminosulfonyl" refers to the group -S(O) 2 NRR, wherein each R is
20 independently hydrogen, alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heterocyclyl. Unless otherwise
   constrained by the definition, all substituents may optionally be further substituted by 1, 2 or
   3 substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carboxy,
   carboxyalkyl, aminocarbonyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, halogen, CF 3, amino, substituted amino,
   cyano, cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, and -S(O),1Ra, in which Ra is alkyl, aryl or
25 heteroaryl and n is 0, 1 or 2.
           The term "hydroxy" or "hydroxyl" refers to the group -OH.
           The term "hydroxyamino" refers to the group -NHOH.
           The term "alkoxyamino" refers to the group -NHOR in which R is optionally
   substituted alkyl.
30         The term "halogen" or "halo" refers to fluoro, bromo, chloro and iodo.
           The term "hydroboration reagent" refers to a reagent that contains boron and can be
   used during a hydroboration reaction. Non-limiting examples can be BH 3-THF,
   9-borabicyclo[3.3. I]nonane ("9-BBN"), catecholborane, and disiamylborane.
                                                     20

            The term "reagent" refers to a substance or compound that can be added to bring
   about a chemical reaction.
            The term "oxidant" refers to a compound that has a carbon that can gain electron
   denisty from another compound in a chemical reaction.
 5          The term "amine reagent" refers to a compound that has nitrogen.
            The term "additive" can refer to a compound that can be added to a chemical reaction.
            The term "coupling reagent" or "coupling agent" refers to a compound that aids in
   bringing about a reaction to couple one compound to another compound.
            The term "organic base" is an organic compound that acts as a base.
10          The term "organic acid" is an organic compound that acts as an acid.
            The term "brominating reagent" or "brominating agent" refers to a compound that can
   be added to carry out a bromination reaction.
            The term "borohydride reagent" refers to a borohydride compound, such as sodium
   triacetoxyborohydride, sodium borohydrodride, or sodium tripropionoxyborohydride.
15          The term "complex" refers to a formation resulting from the interaction between a
   molecule and a second molecule.
            A "leaving group" includes a molecular fragment that can depart with a pair of
   electrons from a covalent bond to the reacting carbon atom during a chemical reaction.
            "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described event or
20 circumstance may or may not occur, and that the description includes instances where said
   event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not.
            A "substituted" group includes embodiments in which a monoradical substituent is
   bound to a single atom of the substituted group (e.g. forming a branch), and also includes
   embodiments in which the substituent may be a diradical bridging group bound to two
25 adjacent atoms of the substituted group, thereby forming a fused ring on the substituted
   group.
            Where a given group (moiety) is described herein as being attached to a second group
   and the site of attachment is not explicit, the given group may be attached at any available
   site of the given group to any available site of the second group. For example, a "lower
30 alkyl-substituted phenyl", where the attachment sites are not explicit, may have any available
   site of the lower alkyl group attached to any available site of the phenyl group. In this regard,
   an "available site" is a site of the group at which a hydrogen of the group may be replaced
   with a substituent.
                                                    21

            It is understood that in all substituted groups defined above, polymers arrived at by
   defining substituents with further substituents to themselves (e.g., substituted aryl having a
   substituted aryl group as a substituent which is itself substituted with a substituted aryl group,
   etc.) are not intended for inclusion herein. Also not included are infinite numbers of
 5 substituents, whether the substituents are the same or different. In such cases, the maximum
   number of such substituents is three. Each of the above definitions is thus constrained by a
   limitation that, for example, substituted aryl groups are limited to -substituted aryl
   (substituted aryl)-substituted aryl.
            A compound of a given formula is intended to encompass the compounds of the
10 disclosure, and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts, pharmaceutically acceptable esters,
   isomers, tautomers, solvates, isotopes, hydrates, polymorphs, and prodrugs of such
   compounds. Additionally, the compounds of the disclosure may possess one or more
   asymmetric centers, and can be produced as a racemic mixture or as individual enantiomers
   or diastereoisomers. The number of stereoisomers present in any given compound of a given
15 formula depends upon the number of asymmetric centers present (there are 2" stereoisomers
   possible where n is the number of asymmetric centers). The individual stereoisomers may be
   obtained by resolving a racemic or non-racemic mixture of an intermediate at some
   appropriate stage of the synthesis or by resolution of the compound by conventional means.
   The individual stereoisomers (including individual enantiomers and diastereoisomers) as well
20 as racemic and non-racemic mixtures of stereoisomers are encompassed within the scope of
   the present disclosure, all of which are intended to be depicted by the structures of this
   specification unless otherwise specifically indicated.
            "Isomers" are different compounds that have the same molecular formula. Isomers
   include stereoisomers, enantiomers and diastereomers.
25          "Stereoisomers" are isomers that differ only in the way the atoms are arranged in
   space.
            "Enantiomers" are a pair of stereoisomers that are non-superimposable mirror images
   of each other. A 1:1 mixture of a pair of enantiomers is a "racemic" mixture. The term "()"
   is used to designate a racemic mixture where appropriate.
30          "Diastereoisomers" are stereoisomers that have at least two asymmetric atoms, but
   which are not mirror-images of each other.
            The absolute stereochemistry is specified according to the Cahn Ingold Prelog R S
   system. When the compound is a pure enantiomer the stereochemistry at each chiral carbon
   may be specified by either R or S. Resolved compounds whose absolute configuration is
                                                     22

   unknown are designated (+) or (-) depending on the direction (dextro- or laevorotary) that
   they rotate the plane of polarized light at the wavelength of the sodium D line.
           Some of the compounds exist as "tautomeric isomers" or "tautomers." Tautomeric
   isomers are in equilibrium with one another. For example, amide containing compounds may
 5 exist in equilibrium with imidic acid tautomers. Regardless of which tautomer is shown, and
   regardless of the nature of the equilibrium among tautomers, the compounds are understood
   by one of ordinary skill in the art to comprise both amide and imidic acid tautomers. Thus,
   the amide containing compounds are understood to include their imidic acid tautomers.
   Likewise, the imidic acid containing compounds are understood to include their amide
10 tautomers. Non-limiting examples of amide-comprising and imidic acid-comprising
   tautomers are shown below:
                                         O                      HO
                                            NH                     -N
                                         o                       o)
           The term "polymorph" refers to different crystal structures of a crystalline compound.
   The different polymorphs may result from differences in crystal packing (packing
15 polymorphism) or differences in packing between different conformers of the same molecule
   (conformational polymorphism).
           The term "solvate" refers to a complex formed by the combining of a compound and a
   solvent.
           The term "hydrate" refers to the complex formed by the combining of a compound
20 and water.
           The term "prodrug" refers to compounds that include chemical groups which, in vivo,
   can be converted and/or can be split off from the remainder of the molecule to provide for the
   active drug, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a biologically active metabolite
   thereof.
25         Any formula or structure given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as
   well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have
   structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced
   by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be
   incorporated into compounds of the disclosure include isotopes of hydrogen, carbon,
30 nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorous, fluorine and chlorine, such as, but not limited to   2H
   (deuterium, D), 3 H (tritium), 11C,  1C, 1C, 1N,   18F, 3P, 3P,  5S, MCI and 1251. Various
                                                    23

   isotopically labeled compounds of the present disclosure, for example those into which
   radioactive isotopes such as 3H,   1 C and   C are incorporated. Such isotopically labelled
   compounds may be useful in metabolic studies, reaction kinetic studies, detection or imaging
   techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET) or single-photon emission
 5 computed tomography (SPECT) including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in
   radioactive treatment of patients.
           The disclosure also includes compounds in which from 1 to n hydrogens attached to a
   carbon atom is/are replaced by deuterium, in which n is the number of hydrogens in the
   molecule. Such compounds exhibit increased resistance to metabolism and are thus useful
10 for increasing the half life of any compound of Formula I when administered to a
   mammal. See, for example, Foster, "Deuterium Isotope Effects in Studies of Drug
   Metabolism", Trends Pharmacol. Sci. 5(12):524-527 (1984). Such compounds are
   synthesized by means well known in the art, for example by employing starting materials in
   which one or more hydrogens have been replaced by deuterium.
15         Deuterium labelled or substituted therapeutic compounds of the disclosure may have
   improved DMPK (drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics) properties, relating to distribution,
   metabolism and excretion (ADME). Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium
   may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for
   example increased in vivo half-life, reduced dosage requirements and/or an improvement in
20 therapeutic index. An 18F labeled compound may be useful for PET or SPECT
   studies. Isotopically labeled compounds of this disclosure and prodrugs thereof can generally
   be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and
   preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent
   for a non-isotopically labeled reagent. It is understood that deuterium in this context is
25 regarded as a substituent in the compound.
           The concentration of such a heavier isotope, specifically deuterium, may be defined
   by an isotopic enrichment factor. In the compounds of this disclosure any atom not
   specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that
   atom. Unless otherwise stated, when a position is designated specifically as "H" or
30 "hydrogen", the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic
   composition. Accordingly, in the compounds of this disclosure any atom specifically
   designated as a deuterium (D) is meant to represent deuterium.
           In many cases, the compounds of this disclosure are capable of forming acid and/or
   base "salts" by virtue of the presence of amino and/or carboxyl groups or groups similar
                                                   24

   thereto. In some cases, the "salt" of a given compound is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.
   The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" of a given compound refers to salts that retain
   the biological effectiveness and properties of the given compound, and which are not
   biologically or otherwise undesirable.
 5          Base addition salts can be prepared from inorganic and organic bases. Salts derived
   from inorganic bases include, by way of example only, sodium, potassium, lithium,
   ammonium, calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from organic bases include, but are
   not limited to, salts of primary, secondary and tertiary amines, such as alkyl amines, dialkyl
   amines, trialkyl amines, substituted alkyl amines, di(substituted alkyl) amines, tri(substituted
10 alkyl) amines, alkenyl amines, dialkenyl amines, trialkenyl amines, substituted alkenyl
   amines, di(substituted alkenyl) amines, tri(substituted alkenyl) amines, cycloalkyl amines,
   di(cycloalkyl) amines, tri(cycloalkyl) amines, substituted cycloalkyl amines, disubstituted
   cycloalkyl amine, trisubstituted cycloalkyl amines, cycloalkenyl amines, di(cycloalkenyl)
   amines, tri(cycloalkenyl) amines, substituted cycloalkenyl amines, disubstituted cycloalkenyl
15 amine, trisubstituted cycloalkenyl amines, aryl amines, diaryl amines, triaryl amines,
   heteroaryl amines, diheteroaryl amines, triheteroaryl amines, heterocyclic amines,
   diheterocyclic amines, triheterocyclic amines, mixed di- and tri-amines where at least two of
   the substituents on the amine are different and are selected from the group consisting of alkyl,
   substituted alkyl, alkenyl, substituted alkenyl, cycloalkyl, substituted cycloalkyl,
20 cycloalkenyl, substituted cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclic, and the like. Also
   included are amines where the two or three substituents, together with the amino nitrogen,
   form a heterocyclic or heteroaryl group. Amines are of general structure N(R 30 )(R3 1)(R32 ),
   wherein mono-substituted amines have 2 of the three substituents on nitrogen (R30 , R3 1 and
                                                                                                 R1
   R3) as hydrogen, di-substituted amines have 1 of the three substituents on nitrogen (R3,
25 and R 2)  as hydrogen, whereas tri-substituted amines have none of the three substituents on
   nitrogen (R 30 , R31 and R32 ) as hydrogen. R 30 , R31 and R32 are selected from a variety of
   substituents such as hydrogen, optionally substituted alkyl, aryl, heteroayl, cycloalkyl,
   cycloalkenyl, heterocyclyl and the like. The above-mentioned amines refer to the compounds
   wherein either one, two or three substituents on the nitrogen are as listed in the name. For
30 example, the term "cycloalkenyl amine" refers to cycloalkenyl-NH 2, wherein "cycloalkenyl"
   is as defined herein. The term "diheteroarylamine" refers to NH(heteroaryl) 2, wherein
   "heteroaryl" is as defined herein and so on. Specific examples of suitable amines include, by
   way of example only, isopropylamine, trimethyl amine, diethyl amine, tri(iso-propyl) amine,
   tri(n-propyl) amine, ethanolamine, 2-dimethylaminoethanol, tromethamine, lysine, arginine,
                                                      25

   histidine, caffeine, procaine, hydrabamine, choline, betaine, ethylenediamine, glucosamine,
   N-alkylglucamines, theobromine, purines, piperazine, piperidine, morpholine, N
   ethylpiperidine, and the like.
   Acid addition salts may be prepared from inorganic and organic acids. Salts derived from
 5 inorganic acids include hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid,
   phosphoric acid, and the like. Salts derived from organic acids include acetic acid, propionic
   acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, maleic
   acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid,
   methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, p-toluene-sulfonic acid, salicylic acid, and the
10 like.
            The term "reaction conditions" is intended to refer to the physical and/or
   environmental conditions under which a chemical reaction proceeds. Examples of reaction
   conditions include, but are not limited to, one or more of following: reaction temperature,
   solvent, pH, pressure, reaction time, mole ratio of reactants, the presence of a base or acid, or
15 catalyst, radiation, etc. Reaction conditions may be named after the particular chemical
   reaction in which the conditions are employed, such as, coupling conditions, hydrogenation
   conditions, acylation conditions, reduction conditions, etc. Reaction conditions for most
   reactions are generally known to those skilled in the art or can be readily obtained from the
   literature. Examplary reaction conditions sufficient for performing the chemical
20 transformations provided herein can be found throughout, and in particular, the examples
   below. It is also contemplated that the reaction conditions can include reagents in addition to
   those listed in the specific reaction.
            The term "reducing agent" refers to the addition of hydrogen to a molecule.
   Exemplary reducing agents include hydrogen gas (H2) and hydride reagents such as
25 borohydrides, lithium aluminium hydride, diisobutylaluminium hydride (DIBAL-H) and
   lithium triethylborohydride.
            The term "protecting group" refers to a moiety of a compound that masks or alters the
   properties of a functional group or the properties of the compound as a whole. Chemical
   protecting groups and strategies for protection/deprotection are well known in the art. See
30 e.g., Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry, Theodora W. Greene, John Wiley & Sons,
   Inc., New York, 1991. Protecting groups are often utilized to mask the reactivity of certain
   functional groups, to assist in the efficiency of desired chemical reactions, e.g., making and
   breaking chemical bonds in an ordered and planned fashion.
            The term "deprotecting" refers to removing the protecting group.
                                                     26

           The term "amine protecting group" refers to a chemical moiety which is added to, and
   later removed from, an amine functionality to obtain chemoselectivity in a subsequent
   chemical reaction. Suitable nitrogen protecting groups include carbobenzyloxy (Cbz)
   (removed by hydrogenolysis), p-methoxybenzyl carbonyl (Moz or MeOZ) (removed by
 5 hydrogenolysis), tert-butyloxycarbonyl (Boc) (removed by concentrated strong acids, such as
   HCl or trifluoroacetic acid, or by heating), 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (FMOC) (removed
   by base, such as piperidine), acetyl (Ac) (removed by treatment with a base), benzoyl (Bz)
   (removed by treatment with a base, most often with aqueous or gaseous ammonia or
   methylamine), benzyl (Bn) (removed by hydrogenolysis), a carbamate (removed by acid and
10 mild heating), p-methoxybenzyl (PMB) (removed by hydrogenolysis), 3,4-dimethoxybenzyl
   (DMPM) (removed by hydrogenolysis), p-methoxyphenyl (PMP) (removed by ammonium
   cerium(IV) nitrate), a succinimide (i.e., a cyclic imide) (removed by treatment with a base),
   tosyl (Ts) (removed by concentrated acid and strong reducing agents), and other
   sulfonamides (Nosyl and Nps) (removed by samarium iodide, tributyltin hydride, etc.).
15         The term "carboxylic acid protecting group" refers to a chemical moiety which is
   added to, and later removed from, a carboxylic acid functionality to obtain chemoselectivity
   in a subsequent chemical reaction. Suitable carboxylic acid protecting groups include methyl
   esters (removed by acid or base), benzyl esters (removed by hydrogenolysis), tert-butyl esters
   (removed by acid, base, and some reductants), silyl esters (removed by acid, base, and
20 organicmetallic reagents), orthoesters (removed by mild aqueous acid to form esters, which
   can be removed according to the ester's properties), and oxazoline (removed at pH < 1 or pH
   > 12 with heat).
           The term "succinimide" refers to a cyclic imide, and may be monocyclic, bicyclic
   (e.g., phthalimides) or polycyclic, and may further be optionally substituted. Non limiting
25 examples include N-pthalimide, N-dichlorophthalimide, N-tetrachlorophthalimide, N-4
   nitrophthalimide, N-dithiasuccinimide, N-2,3-diphenylmaleimide, and N-2,3
   dimethylmaleimide.
           The term "catalyst" refers to a chemical substance that enables a chemical reaction to
   proceed at a usually faster rate or under different conditions (such as at a lower temperature)
30 than otherwise possible.
           In addition, abbreviations as used herein have respective meanings as follows:
               2-MeTHF                 2-methyltetrahydrofuran
                                                   27

9-BBN 9-borabicyclo[3.3. I]nonane
Ac    Acetate
aq    Aqueous
Boc   tert-Butoxycarbonyl
      (Benzotriazol-1
BOP   yloxy)tris(dimethylamino)phosphonium
      hexafluorophosphate
brs   Broad singlet
Bu    Butyl
CDI   Carbonyldiimidazole
      2-chloro-4,6-bis[3-(perfluorohexyl)
CDMT  propyloxy]-1,3,5-triazine
comp  Complicated
conc. Concentrated
      (1-Cyano-2-ethoxy-2
      oxoethylidenaminooxy)dimethylamino
COMU  morpholino-carbenium
      hexafluorophosphate
d     Doublet
Dba   dibenzylideneacetone
DBU    1,8-Diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene
DCM   Dichloromethane
DCC   N,N'-Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
dd    Doublet of doublets
DMAc  Dimethylacetamide
DMAP  4-Dimethylaminopyridine
                   28

DMF      Dimethylformamide
DMSO     Dimethylsulfoxide
         1-Ethyl-3-(3
EDC/EDCI dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide
Equiv    Equivalents
Et       Ethyl
EtOAc    Ethyl acetate
EtOH     Ethanol
         Gram
g
h        Hour
         1-[Bis(dimethylamino)methylene]-1H
HATU     1,2,3-triazolo[4,5-b]pyridinium 3-oxid
         hexafluorophosphate
         N,N,N'    N' -Tetramethyl-O-(lH
HBTU     benzotriazol- 1-yl)uronium
         hexafluorophosphate
HOBt     Hydroxybenzotriazole
HPLC     High-pressure liquid chromatography
Hz       Hertz
iPr      Isopropyl
         Coupling constant
LCMS     Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry
m        Multiplet
M        Molar
m/z      Mass to charge
Me       Methyl
                      29

MeOH    Methanol
MEK     Methyl ethyl ketone
mg      Milligram
MHz     Mega hertz
MIBK    Methyl isobutyl ketone
mL      Milliliter
mmol    Millimole
MTBE    Methyl-tert-butyl ether
NMM     N-Methylmorpholine
NMP     N-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone
NMR     Nuclear magnetic resonance
Oxyma   Ethyl 2-Cyano-2-(hydroxyimino)acetate
Ph      Phenyl
Pr      Propyl
PSI/psi Pound-force per square inch
Py      Pyridine
        benzotriazol-1-yl
PyBOP   oxytripyrrolidinophosphonium
        hexafluorophosphate
        ChlJorotripyrrolidinophosphonium
PyClOP  hexafluorophosphate
s       Singlet
t       Triplet
T3P     Propylphosphonic Anhydride
TBDMS   Tert-butyldimethylsilyl
TBS     Tert-butyldimethylsilyl
                     30

                                           O-(Benzotriazol-1-yl)-N,N,N'     ,N'
               TBTU                       tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate
               t-Bu                   tert-Butyl
               TEMPO                  (2,2,6,6-Tetramethylpiperidin- 1-yl)oxy
               TFA                    Trifluoroacetic acid
               THF                    Tetrahydrofuran
               TLC                    Thin layer chromatography
               Ts                     Tosyl
               vol                    Volume
                                      Weight
               A                      Chemical shift
               pL                     Microliter
   Processes
           As described generally above, the disclosure provides in some embodiments
   processes for making a compound of formula (A).
 5         Typical embodiments of compounds in accordance with the present disclosure may be
   synthesized using the general reaction schemes described below. It will be apparent given
   the description herein that the general schemes may be altered by substitution of the starting
   materials with other materials having similar structures to result in products that are
   correspondingly different. Descriptions of syntheses follow to provide numerous examples
10 of how the starting materials may vary to provide corresponding products. Given a desired
   product for which the substituent groups are defined, the necessary starting materials
   generally may be determined by inspection. Starting materials are typically obtained from
   commercial sources or synthesized using published methods.       For synthesizing compounds
   which are embodiments of the present disclosure, inspection of the structure of the compound
15 to be synthesized will provide the identity of each substituent group. The identity of the final
   product will generally render apparent the identity of the necessary starting materials by a
   simple process of inspection, given the examples herein.
                                                   31

           The compounds of this disclosure can be prepared from readily available starting
   materials using, for example, the following general methods and procedures. It will be
   appreciated that where typical or preferred process conditions (i.e., reaction temperatures,
   times, mole ratios of reactants, solvents, pressures, etc.) are given, other process conditions
 5 can also be used unless otherwise stated. Optimum reaction conditions may vary with the
   particular reactants or solvent used, but such conditions can be determined by one skilled in
   the art by routine optimization procedures.
           Additionally, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art, conventional protecting
   groups may be necessary to prevent certain functional groups from undergoing undesired
10 reactions. Suitable protecting groups for various functional groups as well as suitable
   conditions for protecting and deprotecting particular functional groups are well known in the
   art. For example, numerous protecting groups are described in T. W. Greene and G. M. Wuts
   (1999) Protecting Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3rd Edition, Wiley, New York, and
   references cited therein.
15          Furthermore, the compounds of this disclosure may contain one or more chiral
   centers. Accordingly, if desired, such compounds can be prepared or isolated as pure
   stereoisomers, i.e., as individual enantiomers or diastereomers or as stereoisomer-enriched
   mixtures. All such stereoisomers (and enriched mixtures) are included within the scope of
   this disclosure, unless otherwise indicated. Pure stereoisomers (or enriched mixtures) may be
20 prepared using, for example, optically active starting materials or stereoselective reagents
   well-known in the art. Alternatively, racemic mixtures of such compounds can be separated
   using, for example, chiral column chromatography, chiral resolving agents, and the like.
           The starting materials for the following reactions are generally known compounds or
   can be prepared by known procedures or obvious modifications thereof. For example, many
25 of the starting materials are available from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical
   Co. (Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA), Bachem (Torrance, California, USA), Emka-Chemie or
   Sigma (St. Louis, Missouri, USA). Others may be prepared by procedures or obvious
   modifications thereof, described in standard reference texts such as Fieser and Fieser's
   Reagents for Organic Synthesis, Volumes 1-15 (John Wiley, and Sons, 1991), Rodd's
30 Chemistry of Carbon Compounds, Volumes 1-5, and Supplementals (Elsevier Science
   Publishers, 1989) organic Reactions, Volumes 1-40 (John Wiley, and Sons, 1991), March's
   Advanced Organic Chemistry, (John Wiley, and Sons, 5th Edition, 2001), and Larock's
   Comprehensive Organic Transformations (VCH Publishers Inc., 1989).
                                                   32

           The terms "solvent," "inert organic solvent" or "inert solvent" refer to a solvent inert
   under the conditions of the reaction being described in conjunction therewith (including, for
   example, benzene, toluene, acetonitrile, tetrahydrofuran ("THF"), dimethylformamide
   ("DMF"), chloroform, methylene chloride (or dichloromethane), diethyl ether, methanol,
 5 pyridine and the like). Unless specified to the contrary, the solvents used in the reactions of
   the present disclosure are inert organic solvents, and the reactions are carried out under an
   inert gas, preferably nitrogen.
           In each of the exemplary schemes it may be advantageous to separate reaction
   products from one another and/or from starting materials. The desired products of each step
10 or series of steps is separated and/or purified (hereinafter separated) to the desired degree of
   homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve
   multiphase extraction, crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture, distillation,
   sublimation, or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods
   including, for example: reverse-phase and normal phase; size exclusion; ion exchange; high,
15 medium, and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus; small scale
   analytical; simulated moving bed (SMB) and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography,
   as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.
           Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent
   selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product, unreacted starting
20 material, reaction by product, or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents
   such as activated carbon, molecular sieves, ion exchange media, or the like. Alternatively,
   the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material, bases in the case of an acidic
   material, binding reagents such as antibodies, binding proteins, selective chelators such as
   crown ethers, liquid/liquid ion extraction reagents (LIX), or the like.
25         Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials
   involved. For example, boiling point, and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation,
   presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography, stability of materials in
   acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction, and the like. One skilled in the art will apply
   techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.
30         A single stereoisomer, e.g., an enantiomer, substantially free of its stereoisomer may
   be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of
   diastereomers using optically active resolving agents (Stereochemistry of Carbon
   Compounds, (1962) by E. L. Eliel, McGraw Hill; Lochmuller, C. H., (1975) J.
   Chromatogr., 113, 3) 283-302). Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the disclosure can
                                                    33

   be separated and isolated by any suitable method, including: (1) formation of ionic,
   diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or
   other methods, (2) formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents,
   separation of the diastereomers, and conversion to the pure stereoisomers, and (3) separation
 5 of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions.
            Under method (1), diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically
   pure chiral bases such as brucine, quinine, ephedrine, strychnine, a-methyl-3
   phenylethylamine (amphetamine), and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic
   functionality, such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be
10 induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of
   the optical isomers of amino compounds, addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids, such
   as camphorsulfonic acid, tartaric acid, mandelic acid, or lactic acid can result in formation of
   the diastereomeric salts.
            Alternatively, by method (2), the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one
15 enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair (Eliel, E. and Wilen, S.
   (1994) Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., p. 322).
   Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with
   enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents, such as menthyl derivatives, followed by
   separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the free, enantiomerically enriched
20 substrate. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters, such as a
   menthyl ester, e.g., (-) menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base, or Mosher ester, a
   methoxy-a-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl acetate (Jacob III. (1982) J. Org. Chem. 47:4165), of
   the racemic mixture, and analyzing the NMR spectrum for the presence of the two
   atropisomeric diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be
25 separated and isolated by normal- and reverse-phase chromatography following methods for
   separation of atropisomeric naphthyl-isoquinolines (Hoye, T., WO 96/15111). By method
   (3), a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral
   stationary phase (Chiral Liquid Chromatography (1989) W. J. Lough, Ed. Chapman and
   Hall, New York; Okamoto, (1990) J. of Chromatogr. 513:375-378). Enriched or purified
30 enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with
   asymmetric carbon atoms, such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.
            Scheme 1 represents an exemplary synthesis of compound of formula (A) and can be
   carried out according to the embodiments described herein.
                                                   34

                                       Scheme 1
                                  PG                                                       0
                                       NJOH
                       / \/ \Compund (J)                       N                              Y
Compound (1)
                                    0         O
                                                        LH
                                                         3 CO          Compound (G)_
                             1C3c                PG           PG\         /
             HO    ,
                  Compound (H)                       N                0             O
                                    00
                                            H3CO                                         HNa
                                  OHPG                         0~\/\
                                                                 Compound / (B)               OCH 3
                                             H3COun              Comoun      (C           OCH
                                                                                  H   HN     O
                                                                                      HN
                                             H3C                 Compound (C)             OCH 3
                                                                        0
                                             H3CO                           oO
                                                                 Compound (0)             OCH 3
                                                  \/     N~."                  0O     N
                                                                                  HHN
                                                                     NH                          0
             H3 C    N       OH
                                             H3CO
                                             O
                 Cornpound (F)                                               (           O-    3
                                                   H3CO'                                       OCH 3
                                                                     Compound (A)
                                          35

           In some embodiments, X and Y may be various moieties as discussed below. The
   particular reaction conditions and reagents employed in Scheme 1 are discussed below.
           In one embodiment, the present disclosure provides for a process for preparing a
   compound of formula (A):
                         H3 CO
                                                        oO
                                                                     HN0
 5                            H3CO-                                      OCH3 (A)
           or a salt or solvate thereof, comprising the steps of:
           (a) contacting a compound of formula (I), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
   stereoisomers thereof:
                                                     0
                                         0                   0
                                                                 (I)
10         with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                   PG   0
                                                          OH
                                           H3 CO--           P)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                                     Y
                                             OG
                                 H3CO                                  (G);
15         (b) contacting the compound of formula (G) with a compound of formula (H) or salt
   thereof:
                                            HO
                                                O oy
                                                    HN
                                                   H3CO    (H)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                     36

                                                     0
                                                                0
                                  PG
                                    -                   -OVO
                       H3CO'                                                HNO
                                                                               OCH 3   (B);
           (c) cyclizing a compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C):
                                                     0           H
                              PG     N\                          N      N
                                                                      O
                                                                         HN     0
                          H3CO-
                                                                             OCH 3  (C);
 5         (d) dehydrogenating the compound of formula (C) under conditions sufficient to
   yield a compound of formula (D):
                                                     0            H
                                 N       NN                        N
                                                                          HN    0
                          H3CO-                                              OCH 3  (D)
           (e) deprotecting the compound of formula (D) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (E) or a salt thereof:
                                      NI  ~        0          H
                                            N                 N
                                   <N           .\               NQO
                                                                       HN    0
10                     H3 CO-                                              OCH 3  (E), and
           (f) contacting the compound of formula (E) with a compound of formula (F):
                                                     H    O
                                             H3CO    N       OH
                                                             OH
                                                   0
                                                                  (F)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (A),
   wherein PG is an amine protecting group, X and Y are each independently selected from the
15 group consisting of halo, -OSO 2 R, -OP(O)OR, and -OP(O)(OR) 2, wherein R is alkyl,
   haloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or substituted heteroaryl.
                                                       37

           In some embodiments, the substituted aryl may be an aryl having one or more
   substituents, such as alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxyl, nitro, halogen, and others as discussed above.
           In an embodiment, X is bromo and Y is bromo.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a solvent selected
 5 from the group consisting of dichloromethane, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   dimethylformamide, acetone, methyl ethyl ketone ("MEK"), and methyl isobutyl ketone
   ("MIBK"). In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a temperature
   of from about 10 'C to about 60 'C or from about 10 'C to about 30 'C.
10         In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a phosphate salt or
   a carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
   KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3 PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
   but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3 ,Cs 2 CO 3 , and NaHCO 3.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (J) is a potassium, sodium, or
15 cesium salt.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent
   selected from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran,
   dichloromethane, toluene, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, N,N
   dimethylacetamide, acetone, MEK, MIBK, and a mixture thereof. In certain embodiments,
20 the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a temperature of from about 40 'C to about 60 'C
   or from about 40 'C to about 50 'C.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a phosphate salt or
   a carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
   KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3 PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
25 but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3 ,Cs 2 CO 3 , Li 2 CO 3 , CsHCO 3, K 2 C0 3 , KHCO 3 and NaHCO 3. In
   certain embodiments, one or more phase transfer reagents may be used to assist with the
   reaction.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (H) is a potassium, a sodium, or a
   cesium salt.
30         In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprises an amine reagent,
   wherein the amine reagent comprises ammonium acetate, hexamethyldisilzane, ammonia,
   ammonium formate, ammonium propionate, ammonium hexanoate, or ammonium octanoate.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a solvent selected
   from the group consisting of toluene, xylene, an alcohol, and a mixture thereof. In certain
                                                           38

   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a temperature of from about 60 'C
   to about 110 'C or from about 85 'C to about 95 'C. In some embodiments, the alcohol can
   be isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-methoxyethanol, or a glycol, such as
   ethylene glycol or propylene glycol. In some embodiments, the reaction condition comprises
 5 a mixture of toluene and 2-butanol or isopropanol. In some embodiments, water is removed
   during the process.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise an oxidant. In
   some embodiments, the oxidant is 2,3 -dichloro-5,6-dicyano- 1,4-benzoquinone.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise an additive
10 selected from the group consisting of carbonate base (such as potassium carbonate, potassium
   bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, or sodium bicarbonate), amine (such as triethylamine or
   diisopropylethylamine), acid (organic acids and inorganic acids), and acetate salts (such as
   sodium acetate or potassium acetate). In some embodiments, the additive is acetic acid.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise 2
15 methyltetrahydrofuran, or a mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran. In certain embodiments,
   the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise a temperature of from about -15 'C to about 80
   'C or from about -15 'C to about 10 'C. In some embodiments, the temperature is about 0
   oC.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (e) comprise a deprotection
20 reagent, wherein the deprotection reagent may be hydrochloric acid (including wherein
   hydrochloric acid is generated from acetyl chloride), phosphoric acid, trifluoroacetic acid, p
   toluenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p
   toluenesulfonic acid, 4-bromobenzenesulfonic acid, thionyl chloride,and trimethylsilyl
   chloride. A wide range of solvents may be employed, including but not limited to water,
25 methanol, ethanol, acetonitrile, acetone, tetrahydrofuran, 1,4-dioxane, and toluene.
   Deprotection may proceed at temperatures ranging from about 20 0C to about 110 0C or from
   about 55 0C to about 65 0C.
           In certain embodiments, step (e) further comprises neutralizing the compound of
30 formula (E). In some embodiments, neutralizing the compound of formula (E) may be in a
   variety of organic solvents and aqueous solvents and may be performed at a temperature of
   from about -20 0 C to about 60 0C or from about 5 0 C to about 15 0C. The neutralization
   reagent may be a wide variety of bases. In certain embodiments, the base may be sodium
   methoxide. In some embodiments, the neutralization solvent may be methanol.
                                                   39

           In certain embodiments, step (e) further comprises crystallizing the compound of
   formula (E). In some embodiments, recrystallization of compound formula (E) comprises
   water, an alcohol (such as 1-propanol, 2-propanol, methanol, or ethanol), or acetonitrile. In
   some embodiments, the temperature may range from about -20 'C to about 100 'C. The
 5 temperature may be from about 60 'C and may be ramped to cool to about 20 'C. In some
   embodiments, recrystallization of compound of formula (E) comprises a crystallization
   reagent. The crystallization reagent may be an acid, such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic
   acid, sulfuric acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, 4-bromobenzenesulfonic acid,
   oxalic acid, glucuronic acid, or phosphoric acid. In some embodiments, the crystallization
10 reagent is phosphoric acid.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (f) comprise a solvent selected
   from the group consisting of dichloromethane, methanol, N,N-dimethylformamide, and a
   mixture thereof. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (f) comprise a
   temperature of from about -20 'C to about 30 'C or from about 10 'C to about 20 'C.
15         In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (f) comprises a coupling agent
   and an organic base. The coupling agent may be those typically known in the art. In some
   embodiments, the coupling agent is 4-(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)-4
   methylmorpholinium chloride. In some embodiments, the organic base may be an amine. In
   certain embodiments, the organic base is N-methylmorpholine.
20         In another embodiment, provided is a process for preparing compound of formula
   (A):
                         H3 CO
                                NH                    O        H         .,
                                        N\    /\        /\     N   ,NK
                                       N- N./     -              N        .a
                                           H     -         -        O
                                                                       HN     0
                              H3CO-                                         OCH3 (A)
           or a salt or solvate thereof, comprising the steps of:
           (a) contacting a compound of formula (I-a), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
25 stereoisomers thereof:
                                                    0
                                         0                   0
                                     Br                        Br
                                                                  (I-a)
           with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                    40

                                                 PG    0
                                                         OH
                                          H3 CO-             P)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G'), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                        0
                                       PG
                                          N                       Br
                             H3CO~                                   (G')
 5         (b) contacting the compound of formula (G') with a compound of formula (H) or salt
   thereof:
                                           HO
                                                  HN   O
                                                 H3 CO    (H);
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                  0
                                                            0
                                       0
                       H3CO'                                       HN    0
10                                                                    OCH 3  (B);
           (c) cyclizing the compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C):
                                                  0         H
                               Nq   N\     /                 N  '
                                                                HN     0
                         H3CO-
                                                                     OCH 3 (C);
           (d) oxidizing the compound of formula (C) under conditions sufficient to yield a
15 compound of formula (D):
                                                            H
                                                                HN     0
                         H3CO                                        OCH3  (D);
                                                    41

           (e) deprotecting the compound of formula (D) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (E) or a salt thereof:
                                                                H      N
                                                       /"        N  ~
                                  a    N
                          H3CO                                           OCH3 (E); and
           (f) contacting the compound of formula (E) with a compound of formula (F):
                                                        H    O
                                              H3CO      N      O
                                                 HO-  -NS      OH
                                                    0
 5                                                                 (F)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (A), wherein PG is an
   amine protecting group.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a solvent selected
   from the group consisting of dichloromethane, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
10 isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   dimethylformamide, acetone, MEK, and MIBK. In certain embodiments, the reaction
   conditions of step (a) comprise a temperature of from about 10 'C to about 60 'C or from
   about 10 'C to about 30 'C.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a phosphate salt or
15 a carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
   KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
   but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3 ,Cs 2 CO 3 , and NaHCO 3.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (J) is a potassium, a sodium, or a
   cesium salt.
20         In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent
   selected from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran,
   dichloromethane, toluene, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, N,N
   dimethylacetamide, acetone, MEK, MIBK, and a mixture thereof. In certain embodiments,
   the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a temperature of from about 40 'C to about 60 'C
25 or from about 40 'C to about 50 'C.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a phosphate salt or
   carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
                                                          42

   KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3 PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
   but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3,Cs 2 CO 3 , Li 2 CO 3 ,and NaHCO 3.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (H) is a potassium, a sodium, or a
   cesium salt.
 5         In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise an amine reagent,
   wherein the amine reagent comprises ammonium acetate, hexamethyldisilzane, ammonia,
   ammonium formate, ammonium propionate, ammonium hexanoate, or ammonium octanoate.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a solvent selected
   from the group consisting of toluene, xylene, an alcohol, and a mixture thereof. In certain
10 embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a temperature of from about 60 'C
   to about 110 'C or from about 85 'C to about 95 'C. In some embodiments, the alcohol can
   be isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-methoxyethanol, or a glycol, such as
   ethylene glycol or propylene glycol. In some embodiments, the reaction condition comprises
   a mixture of toluene and isopropanol.
15         In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise an oxidant. In
   some embodiments, the oxidant is 2,3 -dichloro-5,6-dicyano- 1,4-benzoquinone.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise an additive
   selected from the group consisting of carbonate base (such as potassium carbonate, potassium
   bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, or sodium bicarbonate), amine (such as triethylamine or
20 diisopropylethylamine), acid (organic acids and inorganic acids), and acetate salts (such as
   sodium acetate or potassium acetate). In some embodiments, the additive is acetic acid.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise 2
   methyltetrahydrofuran, or a mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran. In certain embodiments,
   the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise a temperature of from about -15 'C to about 80
25 'C or from about -15 'C to about 10 'C. In some embodiments, the temperature is about 0
   oC.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (e) comprise a deprotection
   reagent, wherein the deprotection reagent may be hydrochloric acid (including wherein
   hydrochloric acid is generated from acetyl chloride), phosphoric acid, trifluoroacetic acid, p
30 toluenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, p
   toluenesulfonic acid, 4-bromobenzenesulfonic acid, thionyl chloride,and trimethylsilyl
   chloride. A wide range of solvents may be employed, including but not limited to water,
   methanol, ethanol, acetonitrile, acetone, tetrahydrofuran, 1,4-dioxane, and toluene.
                                                         43

   Deprotection may proceed at temperatures ranging from about 20 'C to about 110 'C or from
   about 55 'C to about 65 'C.
           In certain embodiments, step (e) further comprises neutralizing the compound of
   formula (E). In some embodiments, neutralizing the compound of formula (E) may be in a
 5 variety of organic solvents and aqueous solvents and may be performed at a temperature of
   from about -20 'C to about 60 'C or from about 5 'C to about 15 'C. The neutralization
   reagent may be a wide variety of bases. In certain embodiments, the base may be sodium
   methoxide. In some embodiments, the neutralization solvent may be methanol.
           In certain embodiments, step (e) further comprises crystallizing the compound of
10 formula (E). In some embodiments, recrystallization of compound formula (E) comprises
   water, an alcohol (such as 1-propanol, 2-propanol, methanol, or ethanol), or acetonitrile. In
   some embodiments, the temperature may range from about -20 'C to about 100 'C. The
   temperature may be from about 60 'C and may be ramped to cool to about 20 'C. In some
   embodiments, recrystallization of compound formula (E) comprises a crystallization reagent.
15 The crystallization reagent may be an acid, such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid,
   sulfuric acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, 4-bromobenzenesulfonic acid, oxalic
   acid, glucuronic acid, or phosphoric acid. In some embodiments, the crystallization reagent
   is phosphoric acid.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (f) comprise a solvent selected
20 from the group consisting of dichloromethane, methanol, N,N-dimethylformamide, and a
   mixture thereof. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (f) comprise a
   temperature of from about -20'C to about 30 'C or from about 10 'C to about 20 'C.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (f) comprises a coupling agent
   and an organic base. The coupling agent may be those typically known in the art. In some
25 embodiments, the coupling agent is 4-(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)-4
   methylmorpholinium chloride. In some embodiments, the organic base may be an amine. In
   certain embodiments, the organic base is N-methylmorpholine.
           In an embodiment, the compound of formula (D):
                                                          H        ..,a
                              PG    N\     /N\            N
                                            -      -                    0
                                                                 HNO
                         H3CO-                                        OCH 3 (D)
30         is prepared by
                                                  44

           (a) contacting a compound of formula (I), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
   stereoisomers thereof:
                                                     0
                                       0                     0
                                                                  (I),
           with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                  PG     o
                                                       -OH
 5                                        H3 CO-'               )
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                                       Y
                                            OG
                              H3CO                                       (G);
           (b) contacting the compound of formula (G) with a compound of formula (H) or salt
10 thereof:
                                                             0
                                                   HN
                                                   HN    O
                                                  H3 CO     (H);
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                   0
                                    O
                       H3CO                                             HN    O
                                                                           OCH 3 (B);
15         (c) cyclizing a compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C):
                                                           H
                                                                   HN    0
                       H3 CO                                           OCH 3 (C); and
                                                     45

           (d) dehydrogenating a compound of formula (C) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (D),
           wherein PG is an amine protecting group, X and Y are each independently selected
   from the group consisting of halo, -OSO 2 R, -OP(O)OR, and -OP(O)(OR) 2 , wherein R is
 5 alkyl, haloalkyl, or aryl or substituted aryl.
           In some embodiments, the substituted aryl may be an aryl having one or more
   substituents, such as alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxyl, nitro, halogen, and others as discussed above.
           In an embodiment, X is bromo and Y is bromo.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a solvent selected
10 from the group consisting of dichloromethane, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   dimethylformamide, acetone, MEK, and MIBK. In certain embodiments, the reaction
   conditions of step (a) comprise a temperature of from about 10 'C to about 60 'C or from
   about 10 'C to about 30 'C.
15         In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a phosphate salt or
   carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
   KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3 PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
   but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3 ,Cs 2 CO 3 , and NaHCO 3.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (J) is a potassium, a sodium, or a
20 cesium salt.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent
   selected from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran,
   dichloromethane, toluene, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, N,N
   dimethylacetamide, acetone, MEK, MIBK, and a mixture thereof. In certain embodiments,
25 the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a temperature of from about 40 'C to about 60 'C
   or from about 40 'C to about 50 'C.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a phosphate salt or
   carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
   KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3 PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
30 but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3 ,Cs 2 CO 3 , Li 2 CO 3 ,and NaHCO 3.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (H) is a potassium, a sodium, or a
   cesium salt.
                                                          46

           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprises an amine reagent,
   wherein the amine reagent comprises ammonium acetate, hexamethyldisilzane, ammonia,
   ammonium formate, ammonium propionate, ammonium hexanoate, or ammonium octanoate.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a solvent selected
 5 from the group consisting of toluene, xylene, an alcohol, and a mixture thereof. In certain
   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a temperature of from about 60 'C
   to about 110 'C or from about 85 'C to about 95 'C. In some embodiments, the alcohol can
   be isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-methoxyethanol, or a glycol, such as
   ethylene glycol or propylene glycol. In some embodiments, the reaction condition comprises
10 a mixture of toluene and isopropanol.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise an oxidant. In
   some embodiments, the oxidant is 2,3 -dichloro-5,6-dicyano- 1,4-benzoquinone.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise an additive
   selected from the group consisting of carbonate base (such as potassium carbonate, potassium
15 bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, or sodium bicarbonate), amine (such as triethylamine or
   diisopropylethylamine), acid (organic acids and inorganic acids), and acetate salts (such as
   sodium acetate or potassium acetate). In some embodiments, the additive is acetic acid.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise 2
   methyltetrahydrofuran, or mixture of toluene and tetrahydrofuran. In certain embodiments,
20 the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise a temperature of from about -15 'C to about 80
   'C or from about -15 'C to about 10 'C. In some embodiments, the temperature is about 0
   OC.
           In one embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula (C):
                                                          H
                              PG          /\       /\     N>,   N
                                             -       -      N O
                                                                  HN   0
                         H3CO
                                                                     OCH3 (C)
25         comprising
           (a) contacting a compound of formula (I), stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of
   stereoisomers thereof:
                                                  0
                                        0                 0
                                                              (I)
           with a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof:
                                                  47

                                                     PG    0
                                                             OH
                                            H3 CO-               P)
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (G), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                          0
                                         PG
                               H3CO                                        (G);
 5         (b) contacting the compound of formula (G) with a compound of formula (H) or salt
   thereof:
                                             HO
                                                      HN   O
                                                     H3 CO     (H);
           under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (B), stereoisomer thereof,
   or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                   0
                                                             0
                                  PG
                           ar'                                      -   "
                     H3CO                                             HN
10                                                                        OCH 3 (B); and
           (c) cyclizing a compound of formula (B) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (C),
           wherein PG is an amine protecting group, X and Y are each independently selected
   from the group consisting of halo, -OSO 2 R, -OP(O)OR, and -OP(O)(OR) 2 , wherein R is
15 alkyl, haloalkyl, or aryl or substituted aryl.
           In some embodiments, the substituted aryl may be an aryl having one or more
   substituents, such as alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxyl, nitro, halogen, and others as discussed above.
           In an embodiment, X is bromo and Y is bromo.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a solvent selected
20 from the group consisting of dichloromethane, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   dimethylformamide, acetone, MEK, and MIBK. In certain embodiments, the reaction
                                                       48

   conditions of step (a) comprise a temperature of from about 10 'C to about 60 'C or from
   about 10 0C to about 30 0 C.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a phosphate salt or
   carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
 5 KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3 PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
   but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3 ,Cs 2 CO 3 , and NaHCO 3.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (J) is a potassium, a sodium, or a
   cesium salt.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent
10 selected from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran,
   dichloromethane, toluene, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, N,N
   dimethylacetamide, acetone, MEK, MIBK, and a mixture thereof. In certain embodiments,
   the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a temperature of from about 40 0C to about 60 0 C
   or from about 40 0C to about 50 0 C.
15         In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a phosphate salt or
   carbonate salt. In certain embodiments, the phosphate salt includes but is not limited to
   KH 2 PO 4 , K 3PO 4 , Na2HPO 4 , and Na3 PO 4 . In some embodiments, the carbonate salt includes
   but is not limited to Na 2 CO 3 ,Cs 2 CO 3 , Li 2 CO 3 ,and NaHCO 3.
           In certain embodiments, the compound of formula (H) is a potassium, a sodium, or a
20 cesium salt.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprises an amine reagent,
   wherein the amine reagent comprises ammonium acetate, hexamethyldisilzane, ammonia,
   ammonium formate, ammonium propionate, ammonium hexanoate, or ammonium octanoate.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a solvent selected
25 from the group consisting of toluene, xylene, an alcohol, and a mixture thereof. In certain
   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a temperature of from about 60 0 C
   to about 110 0C or from about 85 0C to about 95 0C. In some embodiments, the alcohol can
   be isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-methoxyethanol, or a glycol, such as
   ethylene glycol or propylene glycol. In some embodiments, the reaction condition comprises
30 a mixture of toluene and isopropanol.
           In one embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula (I-a),
   stereoisomer thereof, or mixture of stereoisomers thereof:
                                                          49

                                                        0
                                         Br                        Br
                                                                      (I-a)
           comprising the steps of:
           (a) cyclizing a compound of formula (L):
                                                    z0
                                              o               o (L)
 5         under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (K):
                                     o                    o (K) and
           (b) brominating the compound of formula (K) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (I-a),
           wherein Z is hydrogen, halo, OS0 2 R, -BF3,     -B(OR 2)2 , , -CO 2 H, or -NR 1
                                                                                          3 wherein
10 R1 is alkyl, haloalkyl,aryl or substituted aryl, and R2 is alkyl. In some embodiments, the
   substituted aryl may be an aryl having one or more substituents, such as alkyl, alkoxy,
   hydroxyl, nitro, halogen, and others as discussed above.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a solvent selected
   from the group consisting of N,N-dimethylacetamide, N,N-dimethylformamide, and
15 acetonitrile. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a
   temperature of from about 20 'C to about 80 'C. In some embodiments, the temperature is
   about 80 'C.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise at least one of
   palladium catalyst, carbonate salt, and phosphine reagent. In some embodiments, the
20 palladium catalyst may be palladium (II) acetate. In some embodiments, the phosphine
   reagent may be PPh 3. In some embodiments, the carbonate salt may be potassium carbonate.
   The reaction conditions may further comprise tetrabutylammonium bromide. The reaction
   may take place from about 5 hours to about 7 hours.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a brominating
25 reagent selected from the group consisting of pyridinium tribromide, bromine, and N
   bromosuccinimide. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a
   solvent selected from the group consisting of dichloromethane, methanol, and a mixture
                                                     50

   thereof. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a temperature
   of about 20 'C. The reaction may take place for about 2 hours to about 5 hours.
            In one embodiment, compound of formula (L) is prepared by contacting a compound
   of formula (M):
                                                            x1
                                                            Y1
 5                                                   -          (M)
            with a compound of formula (N):
                                               HO
                                                               (N)
            under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (L),
            wherein X1 is a leaving group, Y' is hydrogen, halo, or trifluoromethanesulfonate, and
10 Z is hydrogen, halo, -OS0 2 R, -BF3,      -B(OR 2) 2 , , -CO 2 H, or -NR  1
                                                                              3 wherein R 1 is alkyl,
   haloalkyl,aryl or substituted aryl, and R 2 is alkyl. In some embodiments, X1 is halo, -OH, or
   -S(O)  2 R 3, and R3 is alkyl, haloalkyl, or aryl, and the aryl is optionally substituted with halo,
   alkyl, haloalkyl, nitro, hydroxyl, or alkoxy.
            In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise a solvent selected from the
15 group consisting of N,N-dimethylacetamide, tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, N,N
   dimethylformamide, and acetonitrile. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions
   comprise a temperature of from about 20 'C to about 70 'C. In some embodiments, the
   temperature is about 70 'C. In some embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise a
   carbonate base, such as potassium carbonate. Sodium iodide may also be used. The reaction
20 may take place for about 2 hours.
            In one embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula (I-a):
                                                       0
                                          0                      0
                                       Br                           Br
                                                                       (I-a)
            comprising reacting a compound of formula (0):
                                                       0
                                                                 0
                                                                    (0)
25          under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (I-a).
            In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise an oxidizing reagent and
   palladium catalyst. The palladium catalyst may be dichloro[2-(4,5-dihydro-2
                                                        51

   oxazolyl)quinoline]palladium(II). The oxidizing agent may be tert-butylhydroperoxide. An
   additive may be used, such as silver tetrafluoroborate.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise a solvent selected from the
   group consisting of N,N-dimethylformamide, water, and a mixture thereof. In some
 5 embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise a temperature of from about 20 'C to about
   25 'C or from about 0 'C to about 100 'C. The reaction may take place for about 30 minutes
   to about 12 hours or from about 30 minutes to about 48 hours.
           In one embodiment, a compound of formula (K) is prepared by hydrolyzing a
   compound of formula (P):
                                                  10
10                                                            (P)
           wherein R7 is alkyl, under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (K).
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise an acid. In some
   embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise a solvent selected from the group consisting
   of dichloromethane, water, and a mixture thereof. In some embodiments, the reaction
15 conditions comprise a temperature of from about 5 'C to about 35 'C or from about 0 'C to
   about 100 'C. The acid may be trifluoroacetic acid. The reaction may take place from about
   30 minutes to about 2 hours or from about 30 minutes to about 48 hours.
           In one embodiment, a compound of formula (K) is prepared by derivatizing a
   compound of formula (Q):
                                                  0
                                                           0
20                                                            (Q)
   under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (K).
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise an acid. In some
   embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise a solvent selected from the group consisting
   of an organic solvent, aqueous solvent, and a mixture thereof. In certain embodiments, the
25 reaction conditions comprise a temperature of from about 0 'C to about 100 'C, 60 'C to
   about 70 'C, or about 65 'C. The reaction may take place in about 0.2 hours to about 48
   hours or for about 3 hours. In some embodiments, the solvent may be water. In some
   embodiments, the acid may be trifluoroacetic acid.
           In one embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula (H):
                                                  52

                                            HO 1 " 7       .
                                                       HN
                                                      H3Co     (H)
   comprising the steps of:
           (a) contacting a salt of a compound of formula (R):
                                            R4.'0        N
                                                   O     H      (R)
 5         with a compound of formula (S):
                                                         0
                                               HH
                                                o               (S)
           under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (T):
                                                 .0,,
                                        R4,O
                                                      HN     0
                                                          O    (T) and
           (b) hydrolyzing the compound of formula (T) under conditions sufficient to yield the
10 compound of formula (H), wherein R 4 is an optionally substituted alkyl or optionally
   substituted aryl.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a coupling reagent.
   In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions comprise a solvent selected from the group
   consisting of N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
15 dichloromethane, tetrahydrofuran, and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran. In certain embodiments, the
   reaction conditions comprise a temperature of from about 0 'C to about 25 'C. In some
   embodiments, the coupling reagent can be typical peptide coupling reagents, such as
   N,N,N',N'-Tetramethyl-O-(benzotriazol-1-yl)uronium tetrafluoroborate. In some
   embodiments, a base, such as diisopropylethylamine, can be used.
20         In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a hydroxide base.
   In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent selected from
   the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran, an alcohol (such as methanol, ethanol, or
   isopropanol), water, N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N-methyl-2
   pyrrolidone, and a mixture thereof. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step
25 (b) comprise a temperature of from about 15 'C to about 25 'C. In some embodiments, the
                                                        53

   hydroxide base may be sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, or lithium hydroxide. In
   some embodiments, the solvent may be a mixture of tetrahydrofuran, methanol, and water.
           In one embodiment, a compound of formula (R) is prepared by (a) cyclizing a
   compound of formula (U):
                                                      0
                                           R4 0      NH
 5                                              0    PG    (U)
           under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (V):
                                          4
                                         R _
                                               O  PG     (V) and
           (b) contacting the compound of formula (V) with an acid under conditions sufficient
   to yield the complex of formula (R), wherein PG is an amine protecting group and R4 is an
10 optionally substituted alkyl or optionally substituted aryl.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a borohydride
   reagent and an organic acid. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a)
   comprise an alkyl acetate solvent. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a)
   comprise a temperature of from about -10 'C to about 0 'C or about -10 'C to about 20 'C.
15 The alkyl acetate solvent may be, for example, ethyl acetate, isopropyl acetate, propyl
   acetate, butyl acetate, and the like. The borohydride reagent may be sodium
   triacetoxyborohydride, sodium borohydrodride, or sodium tripropionoxyborohydride. The
   organic acid may be trifluoroacetic acid, acetic acid, or propionic acid. In some
   embodiments, sodium triacetoxyborohydride and trifluoroacetic acid may be used.
20         In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent selected
   from the group consisting of dichloromethane, toluene, ethyl acetate, isopropyl acetate,
   methanol, ethanol, and isoprophanol. In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step
   (b) comprise ethyl acetate. In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b)
   comprise a temperature of from about 15 'C to about 110 'C or about 15 'C to about 80 'C.
25
           In some embodiments, the acid is selected from the group consisting of trifluoroacetic
   acid, hydrochloric acid, methanesulfonic acid, benezensulfonic acid, and napthalenesulfonic
   acid. In some embodiments, the complex of formula (R) is a trifluoroacetate salt,
   hydrochloride salt, mesylate salt, besylate salt, or naphthalenesulfonate salt.
                                                   54

           In some embodiments, the acid is para-toluenesulfonic acid, and the salt of formula
   (R) is a para-toluenesulfonic salt. In such embodiments, R4 is an ethyl group. In some
   embodiments, the acid is hydrochloric acid, and the salt of formula (R) is a hydrochloric salt.
   In such embodiments, the R4 can be a benzyl group.
 5         In one embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a complex of formula (R-a):
                                                        SO3 H
                                              H
                                                               (R-a)
           comprising the steps of:
            (a) cyclizing a compound of formula (U'):
                                                     0
                                                   'NH
                                               O    PG    (U')
10         under conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (V'):
                                             0    PG   (V') and
            (b) contacting the compound of formula (V') with para-toluenesulfonic acid, wherein
   PG is an amine protecting group, under conditions sufficient to yield the complex of formula
   (R-a).
15          In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a borohydride
   reagent and an organic acid. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a)
   comprise an alkyl acetate solvent. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a)
   comprise a temperature of from about -10 'C to about 0 'C or about -10 'C to about 20 'C.
   The alkyl acetate solvent may be, for example, ethyl acetate, isopropyl acetate, N-propyl
20 acetate, butyl acetate, and the like. The borohydride reagent may be sodium
   triacetoxyborohydride, sodium borohydrodride, or sodium tripropionoxyborohydride. The
   organic solvent may be trifluoroacetic acid, acetic acid, or propionic acid. In some
   embodiments, sodium triacetoxyborohydride and trifluoroacetic acid may be used. In some
   embodiments, step (a) comprises cyclizing and reducing a compound of formula (U').
25          In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent selected
   from the group consisting of dichloromethane, toluene, ethyl acetate, isopropyl acetate,
   methanol, ethanol, and isoprophanol. In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step
   (b) comprise ethyl acetate. In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b)
                                                   55

   comprise a temperature of from about 15 'C to about 110 'C or about 15 'C to about 80 'C.
           In one embodiment, provided is a process for preparing a compound of formula (J) or
   salt thereof:
                                                   PG      0
                                                        -OH
 5                                        H3 CO--               P)
           comprising the steps of:
            (a) contacting a compound of formula (W):
                                               0,     PG
                                                  PG'       (W)
           with a hydroboration reagent under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of
10 formula (X):
                                                          OH
                                              0 P PG
                                               PG1            (X)
            (b) methylating the compound of formula (X) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (Y):
                                                      OCH 3
                                        0
                                        HO      PG           (Y) and
15          (c) resolving the compound of formula (Y) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (J), wherein PG is an amine protecting group and PG 1 is a carboxylic
   acid protecting group.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a hydroboration
   reagent, wherein the hydroboration reagent is borane-dimethylsulfide. In some embodiments,
20 the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a solvent selected from the group consisting of
   tetrahydrofuran, methyl tert-butyl ether, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, isobutyl
   acetate, diethyl ether, isopropyl ether, toluene, and N,N-dimethylformamide.    In some
   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a temperature of from about -30 'C
   to about -20 'C or about 0 'C to about 100 'C.
                                                      56

           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) may comprise an acid and
   methanol. In some embodiments, the acid may be hydrochloric acid. In some embodiments,
   the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a temperature of from about 20 'C to about 60 'C
   or about 25 'C.
 5         In an embodiment, a compound of formula (J) or salt thereof is prepared by:
           (a) contacting a compound of formula (Z):
                                                              5
                                                             R
                                           PG''[-C
                                                    0G PG,
                                                                 (Z)
           with HCN or salt thereof under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula
   (AA):
                                                           .CN
                                         PG1/O1rN
10                                                     PG       (AA)
           (b) contacting the compound of formula (AA) with an acyl halide or acid and R6 -OH
   under conditions sufficient to yield a compound of formula (BB):
                                                       0
                                                          ~~OR6
                                       PG1/rN
                                              o      PG           (BB);
           (c) selective hydrolysis of the compound of formula (BB) under conditions sufficient
15 to form a compound of formula (CC):
                                                        0
                                                             OH
                                        PG1/TN
                                                0     PG         (CC);
           (d) contacting the compound of formula (CC) with a borane reagent under conditions
   sufficient to yield a compound of formula (DD):
                                                          OH
                                     PG17/0        N
                                            O     PG          (DD); and
20         (e) methylating the compound of formula (DD) under conditions sufficient to yield a
   compound of formula (J),
           wherein R5 is a leaving group, R6 is an optionally substituted alkyl, PG is an amine
   protecting group, and PG 1 is a carboxylic acid protecting group.
                                                       57

                                      5                                8
           In some embodiments, R may be halo, -OH, or -OSO 2 R , wherein R8 is alkyl,
   haloalkyl, aryl, or substituted aryl. In some embodiments, R5 may be -OTs. In some
   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a sodium or potassium salt of
   HCN. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (a) comprise a solvent selected
 5 from the group consisting of dimethylsulfoxide, dimethylformamide, or dimethylacetamide.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise an acid. In
   certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a solvent selected from the
   group consisting of methanol, dioxane, chloroform, benzene, and nitrobenzene. In certain
   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) comprise a temperature of from about 20 'C
10 to about 60 'C. In some embodiments, the temperature may be about 55 'C. The acid may
   be hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, methanesulfonic acid, hydrobromic acid, camphorsulfonic
   acid, para-toluene sulfonic acid, or acetic acid.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (b) may further comprise an
   additional step to add a protecting group(s) if necessary (e.g. if protecting groups have been
15 cleaved during the reaction). Such methods are well-known in the art and can vary based on
   the protection group used as described herein. For example, in some embodiments, di-tert
   butyl dicarbonate may be used along with sodium bicarbonate and ethyl acetate at a
   temperature of about 20 'C.
           In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a hydroxide salt.
20 In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a solvent selected from
   the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran, methanol, and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran. In certain
   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (c) comprise a temperature of from about -20 'C
   to about 20 'C or about 0 'C. The hydroxide salt may be sodium hydroxide, lithium
   hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, or barium hydroxide.
25         In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d) comprise a solvent
   selected from the group consisting of 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, methanol, ethanol,
   tetrahydrofuran, and water. In certain embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (d)
   comprise a temperature of from about -20 'C to about 40 'C or about 20 'C.
           In some embodiments, the borane reagent comprises diborane or a borane complex,
30 wherein the borane complex comprises a borane dimethyl sulfide complex, borane
   tetrahydrofuran complex, or a borane-amine complex.
           In some embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (e) comprise methyl iodide and
   a base selected from the group consisting of a hydroxide salt, 2,6-lutidine, 2,6-di-tert-butyl
   methyl pyridine, and potassium tert-butoxide. In some embodiments, the reaction conditions
                                                   58

   of step (e) comprise a solvent selected from the group consisting of tetrahydrofuran,
   dichloromethane, acetonitrile, water, methanol, dimethyl sulfoxide, and toluene. In some
   embodiments, the reaction conditions of step (e) comprise a temperature of from about -10 'C
   to about 40 'C or from about -4 'C to about 1 'C. In some embodiments, the base is sodium
 5 hydroxide.
           The present processes may be prepared using methods disclosed herein and routine
   modifications thereof which will be apparent given the disclosure herein and methods well
   known in the art. Conventional and well-known synthetic methods may be used in addition
   to the teachings herein. The synthesis of typical compounds described herein, e.g.
10 compounds having structures described by one or more of Formula A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I,
   J, K, L, M, N, 0, P,  Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z, AA,    BB, CC, DD, EE, A-a, A-b, B-a, C-a,
   D-a, E-a, E-b, G-a, G', I-a, I-b, J-a, L-a, M-a, M-b, M-c, P-a, R-a, T-a, U-a, U', V-a, V', W-a,
   X-a, Y-a, AA-a, BB-a, BB-b, CC-a, DD-a, DD-b, or other formulas or compounds disclosed
   herein (e.g. numbered compounds 1-1, 1-2, etc.), may be accomplished as described in the
15 following examples. If available, reagents may be purchased commercially, e.g. from Sigma
   Aldrich or other chemical suppliers.
   Compounds
           In other embodiments, the disclosure provides for intermediate compounds that are
20 useful in the processes described herein. Thus, for instance, one embodiment is a compound
   of the formula (L):
                                                    0
                                        0                    0
                                              o              o (L).
   wherein Z is hydrogen, halo, -OS0 2 R, -BF3,      -B(OR 2)2 , , -CO 2 H, or -NR 1
                                                                                     3 wherein R 1 is
   alkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, or substituted heteroaryl, and R2 is alkyl.
25         In an embodiment, Z is bromo. In some embodiments, Z is chloro. In some
   embodiments, the substituted aryl may be an aryl having one or more substituents, such as
   alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxyl, nitro, halogen, and others as discussed above.
           In another embodiment, provided is a compound of formula (Q):
                                                    0
                                                             0
                                                                (Q).
30
                                                    59

                                                EXAMPLES
            The compounds of the disclosure may be prepared using methods disclosed herein
   and routine modifications thereof which will be apparent given the disclosure herein and
   methods well known in the art. Conventional and well-known synthetic methods may be
 5 used in addition to the teachings herein. The synthesis of compounds described herein, may
   be accomplished as described in the following examples. If available, reagents may be
   purchased commercially, e.g. from Sigma Aldrich or other chemical suppliers. Unless
   otherwise noted, the starting materials for the following reactions may be obtained from
   commercial sources.
10
                                  Example 1: Synthesis of Compound (H)
                                                      0
                                                          Me
                   "NO      OEtO                     NH                      EtO     .  N ."Me
                 O   Boc                      O    Boc                             O   Boc
               Compound (1-1)           Compound (U-a)                      Compound (V-a)
                                                                  o
                                               SO3H        HO   N   OCH 3  O     ,
                                                        H       H                        Me
                             EtO   /)           N          Compound (S)_     0
                                 O                                                   HN     0
                                               Me
                                 Compound (R-a)                            Compound (T-a)
                                   HO      -C)*
                                            "Me
                  ______________
                                         HN     0
                                             OCH  3
                                    Compound (H)
   Grignard Addition: Conversion of Compound (1-1) to Compound (U-a)
15         A reaction vessel was charged with THF (30 mL) followed by 3 M MeMgBr in THF
                                                                                  0
   (19.4 ml, 58.4 mmol, 1.5 equiv). The solution was cooled to about -12            C and then a
   solution of N-Boc-pyroglutamic acid ethyl ester (10.0 g, 38.9 mmol, 1 equiv) (Compound
   (1-1)) in THF (20 mL) was added into the reaction contents over 30 minutes maintaining
                                                   0
   internal temperature of about less than -5        C. Upon reaction completion, 20% aq NH 4 Cl (50
20 mL) was added and the mixture was phase separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with
   EtOAc (50 mL) and the combined organic phases were then washed with 1:1 (v/v) 20% aq
                                                        60

   NH 4Cl/10% aq NaCi (50 mL). The organic phase was polish filtered through a Celite pad
   and then concentrated by rotary evaporation and further dried to afford Compound (U-a): 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 5.24-4.94 (br s, 1H), 4.37-3.95 (m, 3H), 2.70-2.36 (m, 2H),
   2.30-1.97 (m, 4H), 1.96-1.76 (m, 1H), 1.61-1.38 (m, 9H), 1.36-1.05 (m, 3H).
 5          Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, in lieu of N-Boc-pyroglutamic acid ethyl ester, alternative starting
   material may be N-Boc-pyroglutamic acid benzyl ester, N-Boc-pyroglutamic acid methyl
   ester, N-Boc-pyroglutamic acid isopropyl ester, N-Boc-pyroglutamic acid t-butyl ester.
   Additionally, the Grignard reagent may be methylmagnesium chloride in lieu of
10 methylmagnesium bromide.
            Alternative solvents may be used in the reaction, such as tetrahydrofuran, methyl
   tetrahydrofuran, t-butylmethyl ether, and cyclopentyl methyl ether. The reaction may also
   take place in temperatures ranging from about -78 'C to about 10 'C or about -10 'C to
   about 0 'C.
15
   Reductive Cyclization: Conversion of Compound (U-a) to Compound (V-a)
            A reaction flask was charged with sodium triacetoxyborohydride (9.7 g, 46 mmol, 1.3
   equiv) and EtOAc (48 mL). The mixture was cooled to about -10 'C and a solution of
   Compound (U-a) (9.5 g, 35 mmol, 1 equiv) in EtOAc (48 mL) was added followed by
20 trifluoroacetic acid (11.5 mL, 150 mmol, 4.3 equiv) while maintaining content temperature at
   less than 0 'C. Upon reaction completion, 20% aq K 2HPO 4 (25 mL) was added and the
   mixture was phase separated. The organic phase was washed with 20% aq K 2HPO 4 (3x25
   mL) followed by H 2 0 (25 mL) and then concentrated and further dried to afford Compound
   (V-a). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 4.46-3.77 (m, 4H), 2.34-1.79 (m, 9H), 1.73-0.98 (m,
25  1OH).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, sodium tristrifluoroacetoxyborohydride or sodium
   tripropionyloxyborohydride may be used in lieu of sodium triacetoxyborohydride.
   Additionally, in lieu of trifluoroacetic acid, acetic acid or prioionic acid may be used.
30 Alternative solvents may include isopropyl acetate, propyl acetate, and butyl acetate, and
   temperatures ranging from about -10 to about 0 'C or about -10 to about 20 'C may be
   employed.
   Deprotection and Salt Formation: Conversion of Compound (V-a) to Compound (R-a)
                                                    61

            A reaction flask was charged with para-toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate (6.6 g, 35
   mmol, 1 equiv) and then a solution of Compound (V-a) (11.0 g, assumed 35 mmol, 1 equiv)
   in EtOAc (40 mL) was polish filtered through a pad of Celite into the flask followed by a
   rinse forward of EtOAc (10 mL). The mixture was warmed to about 50 'C and held for about
 5 90 min. Upon reaction completion, the slurry was cooled to about 20 'C and then filtered,
   rinsing forward EtOAc (2x10 mL). The solids were dried under vacuum at about 40 'C to
   afford Compound (R-a). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.70 (d, J= 4.6 Hz, 2H), 7.23 (d, J
   = 4.6 Hz, 2H), 4.54-4.40 (m,    1H), 4.40-4.18 (m, 2H), 3.88-3.64 (m, 1H), 2.53-2.33 (m, 5H),
   2.32-2.08 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.56 (m, 1H), 1.43 (d, J= 6.6 Hz, 3H), 1.30 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 3H).
10          Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, in lieu of para-toluenesulfonic acid, alternative reagents may be
   trifluoroacetic acid, anhydrous HCl, hydrochloric acid, methanesulfonic acid,
   benzenesulfonic acid, naphthalenesulfonic acid. Various solvents may also be used, such as
   dichloromethane, toluene, isopropyl acetate, methanol, ethanol, and isopropanol. The reaction
15 may be carried out at temperatures of about 15'C to about 110 'C. The resultant salt may be
   isolated as a trifluoroacetate salt, hydrochloride salt, mesylate salt, besylate salt, and
   naphthalenesulfonate salt.
   Peptide Coupling of Compound (R-a) to Form Compound (T-a)
20          A reaction vessel was charged with Compound (R-a) (30.0 g, 91.0 mmol, 1 equiv),
   2-(S)-methoxycarbonylamino-3-methyl-butyric acid (17.5 g, 100 mmol, 1.10 equiv), and
   HATU (38.0 g, 100 mmol, 1.10 equiv) followed by dichloromethane (450 mL) and
   diisopropylethylamine (49.6 mL, 300 mmol, 3.30 equiv). After about 1 h, the mixture was
   concentrated by rotary evaporation and diluted with ethyl acetate (200 mL). The solution
25 was washed with 10% HCl (4 x 50 mL) followed by 5% Na 2 CO 3 (4 x 50 mL) and 20% NaCl
   (50 mL). The organic phase was filtered through Celite, concentrated, and then evaporated
   from dichloromethane to produce crude Compound (T-a) that was used without further
   purification.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
30 employed. For example, alternative reagents may be T3P, 4-(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2
   yl)-4-methylmorpholinium chloride, CDI, EDCI-HOBt, EDCI-HATU, isobutyl chlorofomate
   / NMM. The reaction may take place in various solvents, including DMAc, NMP, DCM,
   THF, 2-Me-THF, and in temperatures of about 00 C to about 25'C.
                                                    62

   Ester Hydrolysis of Compound (T-a) to Form Compound (H)
            Crude Compound (T-a) was added with THF (200 mL) and MeOH (50 mL) to
   produce a solution. To this solution was added a solution of LiOH (10.9 g, 0.455 mol) in
   water (100 mL). After about 13 h, the reaction was concentrated by rotary evaporation and
 5 the resulting solution was washed with MTBE (3 x 50 mL). The aqueous phase was polish
   filtered through Celite and acidified to pH 2 with 6N HCl (100 mL). The mixture was
   extracted with dichloromethane (3 x 50 mL) and the combined organic phases were dried
   over Na2 SO 4 , filtered and concentrated to produce Compound (H). 1H NMR (400 MHz, d6
   acetone) 6 6.50-6.19 (m, 1H), 4.80-4.53 (m, 1H), 4.48-4.29 (m, 1H), 4.27-3.94 (m, 1H),
10 3.75-3.38 (m, 3H), 2.44-1.52 (m, 9H), 1.32 (d, 3H), 0.96 (m, 6H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, various bases may be used, such as sodium hydroxide and
   potassium hydroxide. Various solvents, such as ethanol, isopropanol, DMF, DMAc, and
   NMP, may be used and temperatures may range from about 15 'C to about 25 'C.
15
                               Example 2: Synthesis of Compound (J-a)
                                                    0                                   0
                       ~CN                             OCH3 1                               CH 3
          H3CO   .)                       H3CO                                 H3COI
              O     Boc                 .         H         .                .       O   c
         Compound (AA-a)                   Compound (AA-b)                       Compound (BB-a)
                                               0
                                                  OHOH
                                I- H3CO                         3   HCO              O
                                                                                 BO
                                   Compound (CC-a)                 Compound (DD-a)
                                                 OH                       -OCH    3
                                IN  HO                       a HO
                                      0      Boc                 0    Boc
                                   Compound (3-2)                Compound (J-a)
   Hydrolysis and Boc-protection: Conversion of Compound (AA-a) to Compound (BB-a)
20          Acetyl chloride (9.88 kg, 126 mol) was added slowly to cold methanol (6.73 kg). The
   resulting methanolic hydrogen chloride solution was added over about 1 hour to a solution of
                                                      63

   Compound (AA-a) (4.26 kg, 16.8 mol) in methanol (10.1 kg) while maintaining reaction
   temperature below 25 'C. The reaction mixture was agitated at about 20 'C for about 1 hour,
   and then heated at reflux until reaction completion. The reaction mixture was concentrated
   under vacuum, cooled to about 15 'C, and basified with sodium bicarbonate (8 wt. % aqueous
 5 solution, 34.9 L). Ethyl acetate (19.2 kg) and a solution of di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (3.66 kg,
    16.8 mol) in ethyl acetate (7.7 kg) were added, the mixture was agitated for about 1 hour, and
   the layers were separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate (12.8 kg) and
   the combined organic layers were concentrated under vacuum to provide Compound (BB-a).
    H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6: 4.25 (dt, 1H), 3.84-3.52 (comp m, 8H), 3.01 (m, 1H), 2.45
10 (m, 1H), 2.28 (m, 1H), 1.38 (m, 9H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, various acids may be employed for hydrolysis, such as sulfuric acid,
   methanesulfonic acid, hydrobromic acid, camphorsulfonic acid, para-toluene sulfonic acid,
   and acetic acid, and alternative solvents may include dioxane, chloroform, benzene, and
15 nitrobenzene. Alternatively, hydrolysis may be carried out with palladium in methanol. The
   reaction may take place at temperatures of about 20 'C to about 60 'C.
            Other boc-protection reagents, including but not limited to phenyl tert-butyl
   carbonate, tert-butyl N-succinimidyl carbonate, tert-butyl 4-formylphenyl carbonate, and tert
   butyl carbonate azide, may be used. Alternative bases for use during the boc-protection step
20 may include phosphate bases (such as potassium phosphate monobasic, potassium phosphate
   dibasic, potassium phosphate tribasic, sodium phosphate monobasic, sodium phosphate
   dibasic, and sodium phosphate tribasic), carbonate bases (such as potassium carbonate and
   cesium carbonate), hydroxide bases (such as potassium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, lithium
   hydroxide), hydrides (such as sodium hydride), and organic bases (such as amines, including
25 triethyl amine, diisopropyl amine, and diisopropyl ethyl amine). Various solvents, such as
   methyl tert-butyl ether, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, isobutyl
   acetate, methyl acetate, diethyl ether, isopropyl ether, dichloromethane, toluene, and
   N,N-dimethylformamide, may be employed. Temperatures may also range from about 0 'C
   to about 100 'C.
30
   Selective Ester Hydrolysis to Prepare Compound (CC-a)
            Sodium hydroxide (1 N aqueous solution, 20.2 kg, 20.2 mol) was added over about 2
   hours to a solution of Compound (BB-a) (4.32 kg, 15.04 mol) in tetrahydrofuran (22 kg)
   while maintaining reaction temperature below -1 'C. Upon complete conversion, glacial
                                                   64

   acetic acid (0.5 kg) was added and the mixture was warmed to about 20 'C. Methyl tert
   butyl ether (13.6 kg) was added, the mixture was agitated, and the layers were separated. The
   organic layer was extracted twice with sodium bicarbonate (5 % aqueous solution, 2 x 8.5
   kg). The three aqueous layers were combined, methyl tert-butyl ether (14.5 kg) was added,
 5 and the mixture was acidified to pH 1 with hydrochloric acid (10% aqueous solution, 14.7
   kg) while maintaining internal temperature below 15 'C. The layers were separated and the
   aqueous layer was extracted with methyl tert-butyl ether (13.7 kg). The combined organic
   layers were washed twice with 25% brine (2 x 8.2 kg), and concentrated under vacuum to the
   minimum stirrable volume. 2-Methyltetrahydrofuran (28 kg) was charged to the residue and
10 the mixture was concentrated under vacuum to the minimum stirrable volume.
   2-Methyltetrahydrofuran (19.6 kg) was charged to the residue to provide Compound (CC-a)
   as a solution. 1H-NMR (400 MHz, acetone-d6) 6: 4.27 (t, 1H), 3.83-3.52 (comp m, 5H), 3.19
   (m, 1H), 2.55 (m, 1H), 2.19 (m, 1H), 1.39 (m, 9H).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
15 employed. For example, alternative bases may include lithium hydroxide, potassium
   hydroxide, barium hydroxide, and enzymes. Various solvents, such as methanol or Me-THF,
   may be employed, and temperatures may range from -20 'C to 20 'C.
   Reduction of Compound (CC-a) to Form Compound (DD-a)
20         Borane-dimethylsulfide complex (2 M solution in tetrahydrofuran, 9.2 kg, 1.5 equiv.)
   was added over 90 minutes to a solution of Compound (CC-a) (3.8 kg) in
   2-methyltetrahydrofuran (16.5 kg), while maintaining reaction temperature below 25 'C.
   Upon complete conversion 10% aqueous ammonium acetate solution (19.6 kg) was added,
   the mixture was agitated for about 1 hour, and the layers were separated. The organic layer
25 was diluted with methyl tert-butyl ether (7.2 kg) and washed with 10% aqueous ammonium
   acetate solution (11.4 kg). The combined aqueous layers were back-extracted with methyl
   tert-butyl ether (6.8 kg). The combined organic layers were washed with 20% brine solution
                                                                               1
   (12.7 kg) and concentrated under vacuum to provide Compound (DD-a).          H NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl 3) 6: 4.28 (dt, 1H), 3.73 (s, 3H), 3.65 (m, 3H), 3.25 (dd, 1H), 2.42 (m, 2H), 1.79
30 (m, 1H), 1.63 (s, 1H), 1.44 (m, 9H).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, other reduction reagents may be used. Non-limiting examples
   include sodium borohydride-boron trifluoride etherate mixture, diborane, borane
   tetrahydrofuran complex, and various borane-amine complexes (such as borane
                                                  65

   triethylamine, borane-diethylaniline and the like). Alternatively, activation reagents may also
   be used, and non-limiting examples of such activation reagents include thionyl chloride,
   oxalyl chloride, 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole, 2-chloro-4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazine, cyanuric
   chloride, N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide, ethyl chloroformate, isobutyl chloroformate,
 5 N-hydroxysuccinimide, and 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol; reduction reagents may then include
   sodium sodium borohydride and lithium borohydride. Various solvents, such as methanol,
   ethanol, tetrahydrofuran, and water, may be used, and temperatures can range from about -20
   'C to 40 'C.
10 Synthesis of Compound (3-2) from Compound (DD-a)
           An aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide (30% w/w, 103 g) is added to a solution of
   Compound (DD-a) (80.3 g) in methyl tert-butyl ether (320 mL) at about 10 'C. The mixture
   is warmed to about 20 'C and agitated for about 2 hours. Water (80 mL) is added, the
   mixture is agitated, and then the layers are separated. Sodium chloride (20.8 g) is charged to
15 the aqueous layer and agitated until dissolved. The solution is cooled to about 5 'C and then
   an aqueous solution of 15% w/w hydrochloric acid (195 g) is added over about 2 hours. The
   batch is seeded with Compound (3-2) (0.08 g) and the contents are agitated for about 1 hour.
   The resulting slurry is filtered and the isolated solids are washed with an aqueous solution of
    10% w/w sodium chloride (240 mL) followed by water (40 mL). The wet solids are dried to
20 provide Compound (3-2).
   Synthesis of Compound (J-a)from Compound (3-2)
            Methyl iodide (18.3 mL) is added to a solution of Compound (3-2) (48.0 g) in
   tetrahydrofuran (240 mL) and the mixture is cooled to about 10 'C. Sodium tert-butoxide
25 (45.0 g) is added over about 10 minutes and then the reaction mixture is warmed to about 20
   'C and agitated for about an additional 3 hours. Methyl tert-butyl ether (125 mL) and water
   (125 mL) are then added. The biphasic mixture is agitated, the layers are separated, and the
   organic layer is extracted with water (125 mL). The aqueous layers are combined and
   sodium chloride (48.0 g) is added. Methyl tert-butyl ether (192 mL) is added and the
30 temperature is adjusted to about 10 'C. A solution of 15% w/w hydrochloric acid (60 g) is
   added over about 15 minutes. The mixture is agitated and the layers are separated. The
   organic layer is washed sequentially with a solution of 20% w/w sodium metabisulfite/10%
   w/w sodium chloride (48 mL) followed by 10% w/w sodium chloride (48 mL), then dried
   over magnesium sulfate and filtered. One third of the total organic filtrate was concentrated
                                                    66

   to remove the solvent and then isopropanol (38 mL) is added. The solution is concentrated to
   remove solvent and then isopropanol (7.5 mL) is added. The solution is adjusted to about 20
   'C and water (12 mL) is added. The solution is seeded with Compound (J-a) (0.04 g) and
   agitated for about 30 minutes. Water (3 mL) is added and the mixture is agitated for about 1
 5 hour. Water (33 mL) is added over about 2 hours and then the mixture is heated to about 35
   'C over about 1.5 hours. The mixture is agitated at about 35 'C for about 2 hours and then
   cooled to about 0 'C over about 3.5 hours. The resulting slurry is filtered, washed with a
   mixture of 5:1 v/v water:isopropanol (7.5 mL), and dried to provide Compound (J-a). 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, acetone-d6) 6: 4.20 (dd, 1H), 3.61 (m, 1H), 3.35 (m, 2H), 3.26 (s, 3H), 3.10
10 (m, 1H), 2.45 (m, 2H), 1.73 (m, 1H), 1.39 (m, 9H).
   Alternative Synthesis of Compound (J-a)from Compound (DD-a)
           Methyl iodide (11.8 kg) was added to a solution of Compound (DD-a) (3.0 kg, 11.5
   mol) in tetrahydrofuran (20 kg). Sodium hydroxide (20 wt. % aqueous solution, 9.3 kg) was
15 added over about 1 hour while maintaining reaction temperature below about 15 'C, and the
   mixture was diluted with methyl tert-butyl ether (8.8 kg) and water (3 kg). The mixture was
   agitated, the layers were separated, and the organic layer was extracted with water (6.2 kg).
   The combined aqueous layers were acidified to pH 1 with hydrochloric acid (10 wt. %
   aqueous solution, 34.0 kg) and extracted twice with methyl tert-butyl ether (2 x 9.7 kg). The
20 combined organic layers were washed with sodium bisulfite (10 wt. % aqueous solution, 6
   kg) and 10% brine (6 kg), and concentrated under vacuum. Toluene (18.6 kg) was added,
   and the solution was concentrated under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in toluene (5.4
   kg), heptane (3.0 kg) was added, and the batch was seeded with Compound (J-a) (0.034 kg).
   Heptane (12.8 kg) was added over 30 minutes, and the resulting slurry was stirred at about
25 20 'C for about 2 hours. The precipitated product was filtered, washed with heptane (4.2
   kg), and dried under vacuum at about 20 'C to provide Compound (J-a).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, other reagents and additives may include dimethyl sulfate, methyl
   p-toluenesulfonate, methyl triflate, and methyl carbonate. Silver triflate may also be added.
30 Various bases, such as potassium hydroxide, 2,6-lutidine, 2,6-di-tert-butyl-methyl pyridine,
   and potassium tert-butoxide, sodium tert-butoxide, lithium hydroxide, may also be
   employed. Alternative solvents include but are not limited to dichloromethane, acetonitrile,
   tetrahydrofuran, water, methanol, dimethyl sulfoxide, and toluene. The reaction may also
   proceed at temperatures ranging from about 0 'C to about 60 'C or about 15 'C. Compound
                                                  67

   (J-a) may also be isolated in various forms, such as a dicyclohexylamine salt in toluene,
   isopropyl acetate, methyl tert-butyl ether, and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran; a dicyclohexylamine
   salt in toluene, isopropyl acetate, methyl tert-butyl ether, and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran; a
   sodium salt; potassium salt; or lithium salt.
 5
                        Example 3: Alternative Synthesis of Compound (J-a)
                                                                    OH                         OH
            N                 0                                 N~                         N
    HO        cBuO       BcBcBoc      cBuO                                           HO    Boc
    Compound (3-1)          Compound (W-a)            Compound (X-a)               Compound (3-2)
                                       OCH 3                  .- OCH 3
                                 N                          N
                            HO                        HO
                          Compound (Y-a)             Compound (J-a)
   Esterification of Compound (3-1) to form Compound (W-a)
10          A reactor is charged with Compound (3-1) (100 g, 0.440 mol, 1.0 equiv), 4,4
   dimethylamino-pyridine(10.7 g, 0.088 mol, 0.2 equiv) and methyl tert-butyl ether (600 mL).
   To this solution is added di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (105 g, 0.484 mol, 1.1 equiv) over 2 hours.
   The resulting mixture is stirred at about 20 'C to about 30 'C for additional about 2 to about 3
   hours until the reaction is complete and then washed successively with dilute hydrochloric
15 acid (200 mL), dilute aqueous sodium hydroxide solution (200 mL) and brine (100 mL). The
   organic phase obtained after layer separation is dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and
   concentrated by vacuum distillation to obtain Compound (W-a), which is used directly in
   the next step.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
20 employed. For example, other boc-protection reagents, including but not limited to phenyl
   tert-butyl carbonate, tert-butyl N-succinimidyl carbonate, tert-butyl 4-formylphenyl
   carbonate, and tert-butyl carbonate azide, may be used. Various solvents, such as methyl tert
   butyl ether, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, isobutyl acetate,
   methyl acetate, diethyl ether, isopropyl ether, dichloromethane, toluene, and N,N
25 dimethylformamide, may be employed. Temperatures may also range from about 0 'C to
   about 100 'C.
                                                    68

   Synthesis of Compound (X-a) from Compound (W-a)
            (-)-Pinene (28.0 g, 205.6 mmol, 3 equiv) is added slowly to 100 mL of 1.0 M borane
   dimethylsulfide (100 mmol, 1.5 equiv) solution in tetrahydrofuran while maintaining reaction
   temperature below about -20 'C. The resulting mixture is warmed slowly to about 25 'C
 5 over about 2.5 hours and stirred for additional 2 hours. The mixture is then cooled to about
   30 'C and a solution of 18.8 g of crude Compound (W-a) (66.4 mmol) in 18.8 mL of
   tetrahydrofuran is added slowly while maintain reaction temperature below about -20 'C.
   The reaction mixture is then warmed to about 0 'C over 1 hour and stirred at this temperature
   for about 15 hours. Water is added slowly until gas evolution subsides, and then the reaction
10 mixture is diluted with 40 mL of Na 2PO 4/NaOH solution (10 g dibasic sodium phosphate and
    1 g sodium hydroxide dissolved in 40 mL of water). 35 mL of 30% hydrogen peroxide
   solution is added while maintaining reaction temperature below about 5 'C. The reaction
   mixture is then warmed to about 25 'C and stirred at this temperature for additional 1 hour.
   Layers are separated and the aqueous layer is extracted with methyl tert-butyl ether (90 mL).
15 The combined organic phase is washed successively with 20% aqueous sodium sulfite
   solution (100 mL) and brine (90 mL), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The filtrate is
   concentrated under vaccum to obtain crude Compound (X-a), which is used directly in the
   next step.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
20 employed. For example, additional hydroborating reagents, including but not limited to
   borane-THF complex, borane-amine complex, disiamylborane,
   monoisopinocamphenylborane, diethylborane, dimesitylborane and 9-BBN, may be used.
   Various solvents, such as methyl tert-butyl ether, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, isobutyl acetate, diethyl ether, isopropyl ether, toluene, and N,N
25 dimethylformamide may be employed. Temperatures may also range from about 0 'C to
   about 100 'C.
   Deprotection of Compound (X-a) to form Compound (3-2)
            Compound (X-a) (48 g) is mixed with 20% methanolic HCl (90 mL) and agitated at
30 about 25 'C for about 15 hours. The mixture is then concentrated by vacuum distillation,
   mixed with methanol (50 mL), and concentrated again. The residue is mixed with water (100
   mL) and methyl tert-butyl ether (50 mL). Layers are separated, and the organic phase is
   extracted with water (50 mL). The combined aqueous phase is treated with 15% aqueous
   sodium hydroxide to adjust pH to about 7-8. To this mixture is charged di-tert-butyl
                                                   69

   dicarbonate (21.7 g, 99.4 mmol, 1.5 equiv) followed by 15% aqueous sodium hydroxide
   (35.0 g). The mixture is agitated at about 25 0 C for 3 hours, and then methyl tert-butyl ether
   (30 mL) is charged. The layers are separated and sodium chloride (30 g) is charged to the
   aqueous layer. The aqueous layer is treated with 10% aqueous hydrochloric acid to adjust to
 5 pH 2-3 and then extracted twice with ethyl acetate (100 mL and 50 mL). The organic layers
   are combined, and concentrated to dryness by vacuum distillation. The residue is redissolved
   in methyl-tert-butyl ether (30 mL) and then concentrated again. This operation is repeated
   twice to complete solvent replacement from ethyl acetate to methyl tert-butyl ether. The final
   solution in about 30 mL of methyl tert-butyl ether is stirred at ambient temperature for about
10  1 hour to obtain a slurry. The solids are isolated by filtration and dried to provide crude
   Compound (3-2).
            Crude Compound (3-2) (11 g) is dissolved at about 45 0 C in a mixture of methyl tert
   butyl ether (30 mL) and methanol (10 mL). The solution is concentrated and solvent
   exchanged into methyl tert-butyl ether to cause precipitation of the product. The precipitated
15 product is isolated bt filtration and dried to obtain purified Compound (3-2).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, various acids may be employed for hydrolysis, such as sulfuric acid,
   methanesulfonic acid, hydrobromic acid, camphorsulfonic acid, para-toluene sulfonic acid,
   and acetic acid, and alternative solvents may include dioxane, chloroform, benzene, and
20 nitrobenzene. Alternatively, hydrolysis may be carried out with palladium in methanol. The
   reaction may take place at temperatures of about 20 0C to about 60 0 C.
            Other boc-protection reagents, including but not limited to phenyl tert-butyl
   carbonate, tert-butyl N-succinimidyl carbonate, tert-butyl 4-formylphenyl carbonate, and tert
   butyl carbonate azide, also may be used. Alternative bases for use during the boc-protection
25 step may include phosphate bases (such as potassium phosphate monobasic, potassium
   phosphate dibasic, potassium phosphate tribasic, sodium phosphate monobasic, sodium
   phosphate dibasic, and sodium phosphate tribasic), carbonate bases (such as potassium
   carbonate and cesium carbonate), hydroxide bases (such as potassium hydroxide, sodium
   hydroxide, lithium hydroxide), hydrides (such as sodium hydride), and organic bases (such as
30 amines, including triethyl amine, diisopropyl amine, and diisopropyl ethyl amine).
            Various solvents, such as methyl tert-butyl ether, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran,
   tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, isobutyl acetate, methyl acetate, diethyl ether, isopropyl
   ether, dichloromethane, toluene, and N,N-dimethylformamide, may be employed.
   Temperatures may also range from about 0 0 C to about 100 0 C.
                                                     70

   Methylation of Compound (3-2) to form Compound (Y-a)
            Compound (3-2) (7.0 g, 28.5 mmol) is dissolved in tetrahydrofuran (35 mL). The
   resulting solution is mixed with 50% aqueous sodium hydroxide ( 13.7 g, 171.3 mmol, 6.0
 5 equiv) and then with methyl iodide (12.2 g, 86.0 mmol, 3.0 equiv). The mixture is agitated at
   about 25 'C for about 15 hours and then concentrated by vacuum distillation to remove most
   of the organic solvent. The concentrate is diluted with methyl tert-butyl ether (50 mL) and
   water (50 mL) and treated with 10% aqueous hydrochloric acid to adjust pH to 2-3. Layers
   are separated, the aqueous layer is extracted with methyl tert-butyl ether (25 mL). The
10 organic layers are combined and then washed with brine (25 mL), and dried over anhydrous
   sodium sulfate. The filtered solution is concentrated by vacuum distillation to obtain crude
   Compound (Y-a).
            To a solution of 15.2 g crude Compound (Y-a) (58.6 mmol, 1.0 equiv) in methyl tert
   butyl ether (120 mL) is added dicyclohexylamine (9.0 g, 46.9 mmol, 0.85 equiv). The
15 mixture is warmed to about 60 'C and agitated for about 3 hours. The resulting slurry is
   cooled slowly to about 20'C over 2 hours, and then agitated for an additional 2 hours. The
   slurry is filtered and the filter cake rinsed with methyl tert-butyl ether (30 mL) to provide
   Compound (Y-a) as a dicyclohexylamine salt, which is a white solid.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
20 employed. For example, other reagents and additives may include dimethyl sulfate, methyl
   p-toluenesulfonate, methyl triflate, and methyl carbonate. Silver triflate may also be added.
   Various bases, such as potassium hydroxide, 2,6-lutidine, 2,6-di-tert-butyl-methyl pyridine,
   and potassium tert-butoxide, sodium tert-butoxide, lithium hydroxide, may also be
   employed. Alternative solvents include but are not limited to dichloromethane, acetonitrile,
25 tetrahydrofuran, water, methanol, dimethyl sulfoxide, and toluene. The reaction may also
   proceed at temperatures ranging from about 0 'C to about 60 'C or about 15 'C. Compound
   (Y-a) may also be isolated in various forms, such as a sodium salt, potassium salt, or lithium
   salt.
30 Synthesis of Compound (J-a)from Compound (Y-a)
            The dicyclohexylamine salt of Compound (Y-a) (14.6 g) is mixed with methyl tert
   butyl ether (75 mL) and water (75 mL) and the pH adjusted to 10-11 with 15% aqueous
   sodium hydroxide. Layers are separated, and the organic phase is discarded. To the aqueous
   phase is added methyl tert-butyl ether (75 mL) and then the pH is adjusted to 2-3 by addition
                                                     71

   of 10% hydrochloric acid while maintaining temperature below 25 'C. Layers are separated,
   and the aqueous phase is extracted with methyl tert-butyl ether (37.5 mL). The combined
   organic phase is washed with brine (37.5 mL) and then dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate.
   The mixture is filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness by vacuum distillation. The
 5 residue is mixed with hexane (30 mL) and the resulting mixture is concentrated to dryness by
   vacuum distillation. The residue is mixed with hexane (75 mL) and dichloromethane (3.75
   mL). The mixture is heated to about 60 'C and agitated for about 1 hour. The mixture is then
   cooled slowly to about 20 'C over about 2 hours and agitated for an additional 1 hour. The
   precipitated solids are isolated by filtration, rinsed with hexane (30 mL) and dried to obtain
10 Compound (J-a).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative bases for use during salt break may include other
   hydroxide bases (such as potassium hydroxide and lithium hydroxide), phosphate bases (such
   as potassium phosphate tribasic, potassium phosphate dibasic, sodium phosphate dibasic, and
15 sodium phosphate tribasic), and carbonate bases (such as potassium carbonate, sodium
   carbonate and cesium carbonate). Various solvents, such as methyl tert-butyl ether, 2
   methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, isobutyl acetate, methyl acetate,
   diethyl ether, isopropyl ether, dichloromethane, and toluene may be employed.
20                      Example 4: Alternative Synthesis of Compound (J-a)
                                0   0                     0                                    0
         0        0 OO            O   H                       OCH 3                   OOCH      I  3
               NHBoc                                O       c                          O     Soc
                                                          OBC
         Compound    (4-1)0
                                                   Compound (4-2)                     Compound (BB-b)
                                   OH                               , -OCH 3
                        0          OH
                              N                            HO    Boc
                     Compound (X-a)                     Compound (J-a)
   Cyclization of Compound (4-1) to form Compound (4-2)
           A mixture of tetrahydrofuran (152 kg ,171 L) and sodium formate (29.8 kg, 425 mol,
25 3.8 equiv) is cooled to about 0 'C to about 5 'C and agitated for about 1 hour. To this
   mixture is slowly charged acetyl chloride (26.7 kg, 340 mol, 3.0 equiv) while maintaining the
                                                     72

   internal temperature at about 0 'C to about 5 'C. The mixture is agitated for about 30
   minutes, then warmed to about 25 'C and agitated for an additional 14 to 16 hours until the
   reaction is complete.
            A second reactor is charged with tetrahydrofuran (323 kg, 363 L) and lithium amide
 5 (12.5 kg, 544 mol, 4.8 equiv). The mixture is heated to about 50 'C to about 60 'C and
   hexamethyldisilazane (96.9 kg, 600 mol, 5.3 equiv) is added over 3 to 4 hours. The mixture
   is agitated for an additional 1 to 2 hours, adjusted to about 65 'C to about 75 'C, and
   agitated for 10 to 15 hours. The resulting solution of lithium hexamethyldisilazide is cooled
   to about -75 'C to -70 'C. A solution of Compound (4-1) (36 kg, 113 mol) in
10 tetrahydrofuran (93 L) is added over 1 to 2 hours while maintaining the internal temperature
   at about -75 'C to -70 'C. The solution of acetic formic anhydride is then added to the cold
   reaction mixture. The resulting reaction mixture is warmed slowly to about -65 'C to about
   60 'C over I to 2 hours, and then a solution acetic acid (55 kg, 52 L, 916 mol, 8.1 equiv) in
   tetrahydrofuran (55 kg, 62 L) is charged while maintaining the internal temperature below
15 about -35 'C. The temperature of the reaction mixture is adjusted to about -20 'C to about
    10 'C, and water (183 L) is charged while maintaining the internal temperature below about
    10 'C. The layers are separated and the aqueous layer is extracted with methyl tert-butyl
   ether (183 kg, 247 L). The organic layers are combined and washed with brine (209 kg, 175
   L), followed by water (190 L). The layers are separated and the organic layer is dried with
20 anhydrous sodium sulfate (30 kg) for 1 hour. The slurry is filtered and the filter is rinsed
   with dichloromethane (60 kg, 45 L). The filtrate is concentrated by vacuum distillation at 40
   50 'C. The reactor is charged with dichloromethane (100 kg, 75 L) and the mixture is
   concentrated by vacuum distillation at 40-50 'C. A second portion of dichloromethane (100
   kg, 75 L) is charged and the mixture is concentrated by vacuum distillation at 40-50 'C. The
25 residue is dissolved in dichloromethane (256 kg, 192 L), cooled to about 0 'C to about 5 'C
   and trifluoroacetic acid (12.9 kg, 8.7 L, 113 mol, 1 equiv) is added to the mixture while
   maintaining the internal temperature below 5 'C. The mixture is agitated for about 30
   minutes, then warmed to about 20 'C to about 25 'C and agitated for an additional 6 to 10
   hours. The internal temperature is adjusted to 10 C to about 20 'C and 10% aqueous sodium
30 carbonate (150 kg, 142 mol, 1.3 equiv) is slowly charged to adjust to pH 6 to 7. The mixture
   is adjusted to about 30 'C to about 40 'C and distilled under vacuum to remove
   approximately 160 kg dichloromethane (120 L). The mixture is then adjusted to about 20 'C
   to about 35 'C and extracted with methyl tert-butyl ether (180 kg, 243 L). The layers are
   separated and the aqueous layer is extracted with a second portion of methyl tert-butyl ether
                                                    73

   (180 kg, 243 L). The organic layers are combined and washed with 10% aqueous sodium
   chloride solution (120 kg, 112 L). The layers are separated and the organic layer is dried
   with anhydrous sodium sulfate (50 kg). The slurry is passed through silica gel (15 kg),
   eluting with methyl tert-butyl ether (60 kg, 81 L). The eluent is concentrated to an oil by
 5 vacuum distillation at about 350 C to about 45 'C and the residue is dissolved in methanol (40
   kg, 51 L) and used directly in the next step.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative bases may include, but are not limited to, lithium
   diisopropylamide, sodium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide, potassium bis(trimethylsilyl)amide, and
10 the like. Alternative formylation agents, in lieu of acetic formic anhydride, may be phenyl
   formate, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl formate, and the like. Varoius solvents may be used, including
   but not limited to methyltetrahydrofuran, cyclopentyl methyl ether, and the like.
   Hydrogenation of Compound (4-2) to form Compound (BB-b)
15          The solution of Compound (4-2) in methanol is charged into a hydrogenation reactor
   and mixed with 10% palladium on carbon (4.5 kg, 4.2 mol, 0.04 equiv), methanol (120 kg,
    152 L), and acetic acid (0.9 kg, 15.0 mol, 0.1 equiv). The reactor is pressurized with
   hydrogen gas and the mixture is agitated at about 20 'C to about 30 'C until the reaction is
   deemed complete by TLC analysis (e.g. for about 12 tol6 hours). The mixture is then filtered
20 to remove solids and the filtrate is concentrated by vacuum distillation at 30 'C to about 40
   'C to obtain crude Compound (BB-b). The residue is dissolved in tetrahydrofuran (30 kg, 34
   L) and used directly in the next step.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, other catalysts, such as platinum dioxide, palladium acetate and
25 charcoal mixture, bis(triphenylphosphine)ruthenium(II)dichloride, and the like, may be
   employed. Alternative reducing agents may be ammonium formate, formic acid,
   triethylsilane, and the like. Alternative solvents, include but are not limited to, ethanol, ethyl
   acetate, isopropyl acetate, methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, and water. The reaction
   may also proceed at temperatures ranging from about 0 'C to about 60 'C.
30
   Reduction of Compound (BB-b) to form Compound (X-a)
            Crude Compound (BB-b) is mixed with tetrahydrofuran (90 kg ,101 L) and water (30
   L). The temperature of the mixture is adjusted to about 20 'C to about 25 'C, and sodium
   borohydride (14.4 kg, 381 mol, 4.0 equiv) is added. The resulting mixture is agitated at about
                                                    74

   20 to about 25 'C until the reaction is deemed complete by TLC analysis (e.g. for about 2 to 4
   hours). The mixture is then cooled to about 0 'C to about 10 'C, and 12% aqueous
   hydrochloric acid (30 kg, 28 L) is charged to adjust pH to 6-7. The mixture is filtered
   through Celite (10 kg ) and the filter is rinsed with methyl tert-butyl ether (30 kg, 41 L). The
 5 filtrate is allowed to settle to allow layer separation. Layers are separated and the aqueous
   layer is extracted twice with methyl tert-butyl ether (150 kg, 203 L). The organic layers are
   combined and washed with brine (50 kg, 42 L) and concentrated by vacuum distillation at
   about 35 'C to about 45 'C to an oil. To the residue is mixed with methanol (60 kg, 76 L),
   and the resulting solution is concentrated by vacuum distillation at about 35-45 'C to obtain
10 crude Compound (X-a) which is used directly in the next step.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, other reduction reagents may be used. Non-limiting examples
   include lithium borohydride, lithium aluminum hydride, diborane, 9-BBN, borane
   tetrahydrofuran complex, and the like. Various solvents, such as methanol, ethanol,
15 methyltetrahydrofuran, monoglyme, diglyme, and the like, may be used. The reaction may
   also take place at temperatures that range from about -20 'C to about 40 'C.
   Syntheses of Compound (I-a)
            The synthesis of Compound (I-a) from Compound (X-a) can be carried out as
20 described in Example 3.
                               Example 5: Synthesis of Compound (I-a)
                                                     75

                      Br      HO       O
            CI _       Br  +                            CI-C    Br'
        Compound (5-1)         Compound (N)                Compound (5-2)
                                                 o                         0
                              CI         /      O\
                                                0                                  0
                                 Compound (5-3)                      Compound (0)
                          Br HO                  O_                  Br                    Br
                                 Compound (5-4)                     L     Compound (5-5)
                              Br                       Br
                                   Compound (I-a)
   Alkylation of Compound (5-1) with Compound (N) to Compound (5-2)
            To a mixture of 7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one (Compound (N)) (1.0
   g) and 1-bromo-2-(bromomethyl)-4-chlorobenzene (1.75 g) (Compound (5-1)) and
 5 N,N-dimethylacetamide (5 mL) at ambient temperature was added potassium carbonate (1.28
   g). After complete conversion, the mixture was diluted with water (10 mL) and the mixture
   was filtered. The filter cake was washed with water and the isolated solids dried under
   reduced pressure at 50 C to afford 7-(2-bromo-5-chlorobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen
    1(2H)-one (Compound (5-2)). HRMS (ESI MS/MS) Calculated for C 17 Hi 5 BrClO 2 m/z
10 (M+H): 364.9944, and 366.9923. Found: 364.9947, and 366.9948. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl 3) 6 7.62 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.56 (s, 1H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.24 - 7.11 (m, 3H),
   5.10 (s, 2H), 2.98 - 2.86 (m, 2H), 2.70 - 2.60 (m, 2H), 2.21 - 2.06 (m, 2H).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative electrophiles include 1-bromo-4-chloro-2
15 (chloromethyl)benzene, 1-bromo-4-chloro-2-(fluoromethyl)benzene, 1-bromo-4-chloro-2
   (iodomethyl)benzene, 2-bromo-5-chlorobenzyl 4-methylbenzenesulfonate, 2-bromo-5
   chlorobenzyl benzenesulfonate, (2-bromo-5-chlorophenyl)methanol, 2-bromo-5-chlorobenzyl
   methanesulfonate, 2-bromo-5-chlorobenzyl trifluoromethanesulfonate, and 2-bromo-5
   chlorobenzyl 4-nitrobenzenesulfonate.
                                                    76

           Additionally, a variety of bases may be used, including lithium carbonate, sodium
   carbonate, cesium carbonate, beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, calcium carbonate,
   strontium carbonate, barium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium
   hydroxide, cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide, calcium
 5 hydroxide, strontium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, lithium bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate,
   potassium bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium bicarbonate, magnesium bicarbonate,
   calcium bicarbonate, strontium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate, lithium hydride, sodium
   hydride, potassium hydride, magnesium hydride, calcium hydride, lithium tert-butoxide,
   sodium tert-butoxide, potassium tert-butoxide, cesium tert-butoxide, beryllium tert-butoxide,
10 magnesium tert-butoxide, calcium tert-butoxide, strontium tert-butoxide, barium tert
   butoxide, aluminum tert-butoxide, titanium tert-butoxide, 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine, 2,6
   ditertbutylpyridine, 4-methyl-2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, trilithium phosphate, trisodium
   phosphate, tripotassium phosphate, tricesium phosphate, beryllium phosphate, magnesium
   phosphate, calcium phosphate, strontium phosphate, dilithium hydrogenphosphate, disodium
15 hydorgenphosphate, dipotassium hydrogenphosphate, dicesium hydrogenphosphate, lithium
   dihydrogenphosphate, sodium dihydrogenphosphate, potassium dihydrogenphosphate, and
   cesium dihydrogenphosphate.
           Various solvents may be employed. Non-limiting examples may be
   N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide , N-methylpyrolidine, 2
20 methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl
   ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone,
   methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform,
   acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, and nitromethane.
           The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 35 'C or about 0
25 'C to about 40 'C and at time lengths of about 1 hour to about 48 hours or about 24 hours.
   Cyclization of Compound (5-2) to Compound (5-3)
           A mixture of 7-(2-bromo-5-chlorobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one (1.00
   g) (Compound (5-2)), potassium carbonate (1.19 g), triphenylphosphine (38.3 mg),
30 palladium (11) acetate (32.4 mg), pivalic acid (86.4 mg) and N,N-dimethylacetamide (5 mL)
   was heated to about 60 C. After complete consumption of the starting material, water (20
   mL) was added. The mixture was filtered, and the filter cake washed with water (2 x 20 mL)
   and then with hexane (2 x 5 mL). The filter cake was dried under reduced pressure at ambient
   temperature to provide 3-chloro-10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one
                                                   77

   (Compound (5-3)). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 77.65 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H),
   7.54 (s, 1H), 7.35 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (s, 1H), 5.06 (s, 2H), 3.02 - 2.86 (m, 2H), 2.73
   2.53 (m, 2H), 2.26 - 2.00 (m, 2H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
 5 employed. For example, alternative cyclization starting material in lieu of 7-(2-bromo-5
   chlorobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one can include 7-(2,5-dichlorobenzyloxy)
   3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one, 7-(5-chloro-2-iodobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen
    1(2H)-one, 4-chloro-2-((8-oxo-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-2-yloxy)methyl)phenyl
   trifluoromethanesulfonate, 7-(5-bromo-2-chlorobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)
10 one, 7-(2,5-dibromobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one,        7-(5-bromo-2
   iodobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one, and 4-bromo-2-((8-oxo-5,6,7,8
   tetrahydronaphthalen-2-yloxy)methyl)phenyl trifluoromethanesulfonate. Other starting
   materials can include Compound (5-6):
                                                     0
15 wherein X may be -Cl, -Br, -I, -OH, RCO2 -, RbSO 2 -, and HSO 2 -. Y may be -Cl, -Br,- I, -OH,
   RbCO 2 -, RbSO 2 -, and HSO 2 -. Rb may be DO-, MeO-, EtO-, PrO-, iPrO- BuO-, PhO-, toluyl
   0-, 4-NO 2PhO-, CF 3 CH 2 0-, CF 3 0-, CF 2HO-, CFHO-, alkoxy, and Aryl-O-.
            The metal component of the catalyst can vary. Non-limiting examples include
   palladium(II) trifluoroacetate, palladium(II) acetylacetonate, allylpalladium(II) chloride
20 dimer, palladium (II) acetate, palladium (II) pivalate, palladium (II) chloride, palladium (II)
   bromide, tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium, bis(dibenzylideneacetone)palladium,
   bis(acetonitrile)dichloropalladium(II), tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium(0)-chloroform
   adduct, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0),
   dichlorobis(tricyclohexylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II)
25 dichloride, dichlorobis(tri-o-tolylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(di-tert-butyl(4
   dimethylaminophenyl)phosphine)dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II) complex with dichloromethane, [1,1'
   bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), tetrakis(acetonitrile)palladium(II)
30 tetrafluoroborate, (SPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (XPhos) palladium(II)
   phenethylamine chloride, (RuPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (t-BuXPhos)
                                                   78

   palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, and (BrettPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine
   chloride.
             The ligand component of the catalyst may be any ligands known in the art. For
   example, the ligand component may be tri-tert-butylphosphine, tri-tert-butylphosphine hydro
 5 tetrafluoroborate, methyl-di-tert-butylphosphine, methyl-di-tert-butylphosphine hydro
   tetrafluoroborate, 4,5-bis(diphenylphosphino)-9,9-dimethylxanthene, tri(p-tolyl)phosphine,
   tri-(2-furyl)phosphine, 4-(dimethylamino)phenyldiphenylphosphine, tri(4
   fluorophenyl)phosphine, tri(4-trifluoromethylphenyl)phosphine, tri(4
   methoxyphenyl)phosphine, tri(3-methylphenyl)phosphine, tri(2-methylphenyl)phosphine,
10 tri(cyclohexyl)phosphine, Tri(2-furanyl)phosphine, 1,1'- bis( diphenylphosphino) ferrocene,
    1,1'- bis(dicyclohexylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,1'- bis(ditertbutylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,3 -bis
   (2,6-diisopropylphenyl)imidazolinium chloride, 1,3-bis(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)imidazolinium
   chloride, 1,3-diisopropylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate, 1,3-bis(1-adamantyl)imidazolium
   tetrafluoroborate, 2-(dicyclohexylphosphino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-(N,N
15 dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl, 2
   dicyclohexylphosphino-2',6'-dimethoxybiphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2'
   methylbiphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',6'-diisopropoxybiphenyl, 2
   (dicyclohexylphosphino)3,6-dimethoxy-2',4',6'-triisopropyl- 1,1 '-biphenyl, sodium 2'
   dicyclohexylphosphino-2,6-dimethoxy-1,1'-biphenyl-3-sulfonate hydrate, 2
20 diphenylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino-2',4',6'
   triisopropylbiphenyl, (2-biphenyl)di-tert-butylphosphine, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino-3,4,5,6
   tetramethyl-2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'-biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino-2'-methylbiphenyl, 2
   (di-tert-butylphosphino)-2',4',6'- triisopropyl-3,6-dimethoxy- 1,1 '-biphenyl, 2-di-tert
   butylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-{Bis[3,5
25 bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]phosphino}-3,6-dimethoxy -2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'-biphenyl,
   and the like.
             Alternative acids and bases may be employed. Examples of acids may be propanoic
   acid, butyric acid, pentanoic acid, isobutyric acid, tert-butylcarboxylic acid,
   adamantylcarboxylic acid, and trifluoroacetic acid. Examples of bases may be lithium
30 carbonate, sodium carbonate, cesium carbonate, beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate,
   calcium carbonate,strontium carbonate, barium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium
   hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide, magnesium
   hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, lithium bicarbonate,
   sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium bicarbonate,
                                                    79

   magnesium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, strontium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate,
   lithium hydride, sodium hydride, potassium hydride, magnesium hydride, calcium hydride,
   lithium tert-butoxide, sodium tert-butoxide, potassium tert-butoxide, cesium tert-butoxide,
   beryllium tert-butoxide, magnesium tert-butoxide, calcium tert-butoxide, strontium tert
 5 butoxide, barium tert-butoxide, aluminum tert-butoxide, titanium tert-butoxide, 2,2,6,6
   tetramethylpiperidine, 2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, 4-methyl-2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, trilithium
   phosphate, trisodium phosphate, tripotassium phosphate, tricesium phosphate, beryllium
   phosphate, magnesium phosphate, calcium phosphate, strontium phosphate, dilithium
   hydrogenphosphate, disodium hydrogenphosphate, dipotassium hydrogenphosphate,
10 dicesium hydrogenphosphate, lithium dihydrogenphosphate, sodium dihydrogenphosphate,
   potassium dihydrogenphosphate, cesium dihydrogenphosphate, lithium tert-butylcarboxylate,
   sodium tert-butylcarboxylate, potassium tert-butylcarboxylate, cesium tert-butylcarboxylate,
   lithium acetate, sodium acetate, potassium acetate, cesium acetate, lithium propanoate,
   sodium propanoate, potassium propanoate, cesium propanoate, lithium isobutyrate, sodium
15 isobutyrate, potassium isobutyrate, cesium isobutyrate, lithium adamantylcarboxylate,
   sodium adamantylcarboxylate, potassium adamantylcarboxylate, cesium
   adamantylcarboxylate, lithium trifluoroaceate, sodium trifluoroaceate, potassium
   trifluoroaceate, and cesium trifluoroaceate.
            Exemplary solvents can include N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide,
20 N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl
   acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, acetone, methylethyl
   ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane,
   chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, dimethylsulfoxide, and diisopropylether.
            Alternative palladium scavengers may be employed, such as N-acetyl cysteine,
25 activated charcoal, charcoal, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, 1,2-ethylenediamine, 1,2
   diaminopropane, diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetramine, and tris(2-aminoethyl)amine.
            The reaction can take place at temperatures ranging from about 60 'C to about 70 'C
   or about 20 'C to about 100 'C, and at time length of about 5 hours to 6 hours of about 1
   hour to about 48 hours.
30
   Suzuki Reaction of Compound (5-3) to Compound (0)
            3-Chloro-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (5.00 g) (Compound
   (5-3)) was combined with palladium (II) acetate (0.20 g), 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',6'
   dimethoxybiphenyl (0.72 g) 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (50 mL). A solution of potassium
                                                  80

   hydroxide (3.94 g) and water (29 mL) was added followed by potassium vinyltrifluoroborate
   (3.53 g). The mixture was heated to about 70 C. After complete conversion, the temperature
   was adjusted to about 50 C and N-acetyl cysteine (0.72 g) was added followed by celite (2.5
   g). After 3h, the mixture was filtered and the organic phase was washed with a 5% aqueous
 5 potassium hydroxide solution (15 mL) and IM aqueous hydrochloric acid (1 x 75 mL and 1 x
   50 mL). The organic phase was concentrated under reduced pressure and the temperature
   adjusted to about 50 C. Heptane (10 mL) was added, the temperature adjusted to about 23
     C and the mixture was filtered. The filter cake was washed with heptane (5 mL) and dried
   under reduced pressure at about 40 C to provide 3-vinyl-10,1 1-dihydro-5H
10 dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (Compound (0)). HRMS (ESI MS/MS) Calculated for
   C19 H 7 0 2 m/z (M+H): 277.1229; Found: 277.1238; 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 7.69 (d, J
   = 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (s, 1H), 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.43 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (s, 1H), 6.72 (dd, J=
    17.5, 10.9 Hz, 1H), 5.81 (d, J= 17.6 Hz, 1H), 5.32 (d, J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 5.11 (s, 2H), 3.03
   2.89 (m, 2H), 2.70 - 2.58 (m, 2H), 2.21 - 2.06 (m, 2H).
15         Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative starting materials may include 3-bromo-10,11-dihydro
   5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-iodo-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)
   one, 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl trifluoromethanesulfonate, 8
   oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3 -yl benzenesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11
20 tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl 4-methylbenzenesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11
   tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl 4-fluorobenzenesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11
   tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl 4-(trifluoromethyl)benzenesulfonate, 8-oxo
   8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylic acid, lithium 8-oxo-8,9,10,11
   tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, sodium 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
25 dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, potassium 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, cesium 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, methyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, ethyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, propyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
30 dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, isopropyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, butyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, isobutyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, phenyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
                                                   81

   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, p-tolyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-nitrophenyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-fluorophenyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro
 5 5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-methoxyphenyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, trifluoromethyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, difluoromethyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, and fluoromethyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate. Additional alternative starting material can include
10 Compound (5-7), Compound (5-8), Compound (5-8), and Compound (5-10):
                                    R                R
                          0'                 0          0
                                                     Rc-S-O
                           Compound (5-7)                 Compound (5-8)
                             x         -x
                           Compound (5-9)                 Compound (5-10)
15 wherein R may be alkoxy, aryloxy, heteroaryloxy, and X may be halo, -OSO 2 Rh, and
   wherein Rh may be alkyl, haloalkyl, aryl or substituted aryl. In some embodiments, the
   substituted aryl may be an aryl having one or more substituents, such as alkyl, alkoxy,
   hydroxyl, nitro, halogen, and others as discussed above.
           Alternative vinyl components may also be employed. Non-limiting examples of such
20 components can include compounds of the following structures:
                                                         ORf
                              -SnRe 3   4BOR               -O         Metal
                                           6Rf           6Rf
   wherein Re can include alkyl or ethylene, Rf can include alkyl or aryl, and metal may be zinc
   (e.g. when used in combination with Compound (5-7) or Compound (5-10)), magnesium,
   lithium, or aluminum.
25         Additional examples of the vinyl components can be vinylboronic acid, dimethyl
   vinylboronate, diethyl vinylboronate, dipropyl vinylboronate, diisopropyl vinylboronate,
   dibutyl vinylboronate, 4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-2-vinyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolane,4,4,6-trimethyl-2
   vinyl-1,3,2-dioxaborinane, 6-methyl-2-vinyl- 1,3,6,2-dioxazaborocane-4,8-dione,
   vinylboronic anhydride pyridine complex, (+)-vinylboronic acid pinanediol ester, 6
                                                  82

   [(1 R,2R,3 S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1 ]hept-3-yl]-2-Vinyl- 1,3,6,2-dioxazaborocane
   4,8-dione, vinyltrimethylsilane, vinyltriethylsilane, dimethyldivinylsilane, tetravinylsilane,
   chloro(dimethyl)vinylsilane, trichlorovinylsilane, vinyltrimethoxysilane,
   triisopropoxy(vinyl)silane, triethoxyvinylsilane, tris(trimethylsiloxy)(vinyl)silane,
 5 triacetoxy(vinyl)silane, tris(allyloxy)(vinyl)silane, vinyltriisopropenoxysilane, tris(2
   methoxyethoxy)(vinyl)silane, 1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15
   octavinylpentacyclo[9.5.1.1-3,9-.1-5,15-.1-7,13-]octasiloxan, triphenoxy(vinyl)silane,
    1,3,5,7,9,11,13-heptaisobutyl-15
   vinylpentacyclo[9.5.1.l~3,9~.1-5,15-.1-7,13~]octasiloxane,        1-vinyl-2,8,9-trioxa-5-aza-1
10 silabicyclo[3.3.3]undecane, vinylzine Chloride, vinylzine bromide, vinyl lithium, vinyl
   magnesium chloride, vinyl magnesium bromide, and vinyl aluminum.
            Any metal components and ligand components of the catalyst known in the art can
   also be employed. Metal components can include palladium(II) trifluoroacetate, palladium(II)
   acetylacetonate, allylpalladium(II) chloride dimer, palladium(II) acetate, palladium(II)
15 pivalate, palladium(II) chloride, palladium(II) bromide,
   tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium, bis(dibenzylideneacetone)palladium,
   bis(acetonitrile)dichloropalladium(II), tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium(0)-chloroform
   adduct, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0),
   dichlorobis(tricyclohexylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II)
20 dichloride, dichlorobis(tri-o-tolylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(di-tert-butyl(4
   dimethylaminophenyl)phosphine)dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II) complex with dichloromethane, [1,1'
   bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), tetrakis(acetonitrile)palladium(II)
25 tetrafluoroborate, (SPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (XPhos) palladium(II)
   phenethylamine chloride, (RuPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (t-BuXPhos)
   palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, and (BrettPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine
   chloride.
            Non-limiting examples of ligand components may be tri-(2-furyl)phosphine, tri-tert
30 butylphosphine, tri-tert-butylphosphine hydro tetrafluoroborate, methyl-di-tert
   butylphosphine, methyl-di-tert-butylphosphine hydro tetrafluoroborate, 4,5
   bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)-9,9-dimethylxanthene, tri(cyclohexyl)phosphine, tri(2
   furanyl)phosphine, 1,1'- bis( diphenylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,1'- bis( dicyclohexylphosphino)
   ferrocene, 1,1'- bis( ditertbutylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,3-bis-(2,6
                                                    83

   diisopropylphenyl)imidazolinium chloride, 1,3-bis(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)imidazolinium
   chloride, 1,3-diisopropylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate, 1,3-bis(1-adamantyl)imidazolium
   tetrafluoroborate, 2-(dicyclohexylphosphino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-(N,N
   dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl, 2
 5 dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-methylbiphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',6'
   diisopropoxybiphenyl, 2-(dicyclohexylphosphino)3,6-dimethoxy-2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'
   biphenyl, sodium 2'-dicyclohexylphosphino-2,6-dimethoxy- 1,1 '-biphenyl-3 -sulfonate
   hydrate, 2-diphenylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino
   2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl, (2-biphenyl)di-tert-butylphosphine, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino
10 3,4,5,6-tetramethyl-2',4',6'-triisopropyl- 1,1 '-biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino-2'
   methylbiphenyl, 2-(di-tert-butylphosphino)-2',4',6'- triisopropyl-3,6-dimethoxy- 1,1 '-biphenyl,
   2-di-tert-butylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-{bis[3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]phosphino}-3,6-dimethoxy -2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'-biphenyl,
   and the like.
15           Various bases may also be employed. Non-limiting examples may be lithium
   carbonate, sodium carbonate, cesium carbonate, beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate,
   calcium carbonate, strontium carbonate, barium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium
   hydroxide potassium hydroxide, cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide, magnesium
   hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, lithium bicarbonate,
20 sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium bicarbonate,
   magnesium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, strontium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate,
   lithium hydride, sodium hydride, potassium hydride, magnesium hydride, calcium hydride,
   lithium tert-butoxide, sodium tert-butoxide, potassium tert-butoxide, cesium tert-butoxide,
   beryllium tert-butoxide, magnesium tert-butoxide, calcium tert-butoxide, strontium tert
25 butoxide, barium tert-butoxide, aluminum tert-butoxide, titanium tert-butoxide, 2,2,6,6
   tetramethylpiperidine, 2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, 4-methyl-2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, trilithium
   phosphate, trisodium phosphate, tripotassium phosphate, tricesium phosphate, beryllium
   phosphate, magnesium phosphate, calcium phosphate, strontium phosphate, dilithium
   hydrogenphosphate, disodium hydrogenphosphate, dipotassium hydrogenphosphate,
30 dicesium hydrogenphosphate, lithium dihydrogenphosphate, sodium dihydrogenphosphate,
   potassium dihydrogenphosphate, cesium dihydrogenphosphate, lithium tert-butylcarboxylate,
   sodium tert-butylcarboxylate, potassium tert-butylcarboxylate, cesium tert-butylcarboxylate,
   lithium acetate, sodium acetate, potassium acetate, cesium acetate, lithium propanoate,
   sodium propanoate, potassium propanoate, cesium propanoate, lithium isobutyrate, sodium
                                                      84

   isobutyrate, potassium isobutyrate, cesium isobutyrate, lithium adamantylcarboxylate,
   sodium adamantylcarboxylate, potassium adamantylcarboxylate, cesium
   adamantylcarboxylate, lithium trifluoroaceate, sodium trifluoroaceate, potassium
   trifluoroaceate, cesium trifluoroaceate, triethylamine, trimethylamine, tripropylamine,
 5 tributylamine, diisopropylethylamine, dicyclohexylmethylamine, lithium methoxide, lithium
   ethoxide, lithium isopropoxide, lithium propoxide, lithium butoxide, lithium phenoxide,
   sodium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, sodium isopropoxide, sodium butoxide, sodium
   phenoxide, potassium methoxide, potassium ethoxide, potassium isopropoxide, potassium
   propoxide, potassium butoxide, potassium phenoxide, cesium methoxide, cesium ethoxide,
10 cesium isopropoxide, cesium propoxide, cesium butoxide, and cesium phenoxide.
            Alternative solvents can be N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide,
   N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl
   acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, diisopropylether,
   acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2
15 dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane,
   dimethylsulfoxide, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene,
   and nitromethane.
            Various addivites may be employed, such as butylated hydroxytoluene, ascorbic acid,
   sodium ascorbate. Alternative palladium scavengers may be N-acetyl cysteine, activated
20 charcoal, charcoal, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, 1,2-ethylenediamine, 1,2
   diaminopropane, diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetramine, and tris(2-aminoethyl)amine.
            The reaction may take place at temperatures ranging from about 70 'C or about 20 'C
   to about 100 'C, and the reaction may take place in about 2 hours to about 6 hours or about 1
   hour to about 48 hours.
25
   Reaction of Compound (0) to Compound (5-4)
            3-Vinyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (30 g) (Compound (0))
   was combined with dichloromethane (60 mL), dimethylsulfoxide (150 mL) and water (11
   mL) and cooled to about 15 C. N-Bromosuccinimide (21.3 g) was added in portions. After
30 complete conversion, dichloromethane was added (135 mL). The mixture was washed with a
    13% aqueous sodium thiosulfate solution (135 mL) followed by addition of dichloromethane
   (225 mL). The organic phase was washed with water (120 mL) and then concentrated under
   reduced pressure. Methylcyclohexane was added. The mixture was cooled to about 5 'C and
   filtered. The filter cake was washed with methylcyclohexane (100 mL) and then dried under
                                                   85

   reduced pressure at about 40 'C to provide 3-(2-bromo-1-hydroxyethyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (Compound (5-4)). HRMS (ESI MS/MS) Calculated for
   C19Hi8BrO 3 m/z (M+H): 373.0439, and 375.0419; Found: 373.0450, and 375.0432; 1H NMR
   (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 7.74 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (s, 1H), 7.58 (s, 1H), 7.41 (d, J= 7.9 Hz,
 5  1H), 7.23 (s, 1H), 5.11 (s, 2H), 5.03 - 4.85 (m, 1H), 3.74 - 3.62 (m, 1H), 3.60 - 3.46 (m, 1H),
   3.05 - 2.86 (m, 2H), 2.75 (s, 1H), 2.68 - 2.56 (m, 2H), 2.23 - 2.06 (m, 2H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, various brominating agents may be employed, such as bromine,
   bromine monochloride, 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin, pyridinium tribromide, 2,4,4,6
10 tetrabromo-2,5-cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric Acid, tribromoisocyanuric Acid,
   N-bromoisocyanuric acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide,
   N,N'-dibromo-4-methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium
   bromate, tetra-n-butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide,
   trimethylammonium tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support,
15 4-(dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
   bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
   beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite,
   N,N-dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite,
   N-bromo glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5
20 dimethylhydantoin, 1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5
   ethyl-5-methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, 3-bromo-5-methyl-5
   phenyl-imidaolidine-2,4-dione, dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane, carbon tetrabromide,
   bromoform, dibromomethane, hexabromoacetone, lithium bromide, sodium bromide,
   potassium bromide, cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium bromide, calcium
25 bromide, aluminum bromide, indium bromide, titanium bromide, ferrous bromide, ferric
   bromide, tin bromide, and hydrobromic acid.
            Alternative oxygenating agents may be employed. Non-limiting examples may
   include lithium carbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, cesium carbonate,
   beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, calcium carbonate, cerium carbonate, lithium
30 bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium
   bicarbonate, magnesium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate, lithium
   hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide,
   magnesium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, formic
   acid, lithium formate, sodium formate, potassium formate, cesium formate, berylium formate,
                                                   86

   magnesium formate, calcium formate, tert-butylcarboxylic acid, lithium tert
   butylcarboxylate, sodium tert-butylcarboxylate, potassium tert-butylcarboxylate, cesium tert
   tutylcarboxylate, acetic acid, lithium acetate, sodium acetate, potassium acetate, cesium
   acetate, propanoic acid, lithium propanoate, sodium propanoate, potassium propanoate,
 5 cesium propanoate, butyric acid, lithium butyrate, sodim butyrate, potassium butyrate, cesium
   butyrate, beryllium butyrate, magnesium butyrate, calcium butyrate, barium butyrate,
   isobutyric acid, lithium isobutyrate, sodium isobutyrate, potassium isobutyrate, cesium
   isobutyrate, adamantylcarboxylic acid, lithium adamantylcarboxylate, sodium
   adamantylcarboxylate, potassium adamantylcarboxylate, cesium adamantylcarboxylate,
10 lithium trifluoroaceate, sodium trifluoroaceate, potassium trifluoroaceate, cesium
   trifluoroaceate, benzoic acid, lithium benzoate, sodium benzoate, potassium benzoate, cesium
   benzoate, beryllium benzoate, magnesium benzoate, calcium benzoate, 4-nitrobenzoic acid,
   lithium 4-nitrobenzoate, sodium 4-nitrobenzoate, potassium 4-nitrobenzoate, cesium 4
   nitrobenzoate, beryllium 4-nitrobenzoate, magnesium 4-nitrobenzoate, calcium 4
15 nitrobenzoate, 4-fluorobenzoic acid, lithium 4-fluorobenzoate, sodium 4-fluorobenzoate,
   potassium 4-fluorobenzoate, cesium 4-fluorobenzoate, beryllium 4-fluorobenzoate,
   magnesium 4-fluorobenzoate, and calcium 4-fluorobenzoate.
            Alternative solvents can be dimethylsulfoxide, N,N-dimethylformamide,
   N,N-dimethylacetamide, N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
20 isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone,
   diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene,
   dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol,
   tert-butanol, benzene, and nitromethane.
25          Temperatures can range from about 0 'C to about 5 'C or about -10 'C to about 100
   'C, and reaction times may range from about 30 minutes to about 24 hours or about 30
   minutes to about 4 hours.
   Reaction of Compound (5-4) to Compound (5-5)
30          To 3-(2-bromo-1-hydroxyethyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one
   (Compound (5-4)) (8.0 g) in dichloromethane (181 mL) at about 2 'C was added a solution
   of pyridinium tribromide (7.7 g) in MeOH (8.1 mL). After complete conversion, the reaction
   mixture was extracted with water (23 mL) and aqueous hydrochloric acid (3.4 %wt., 2 x 25
   mL) to yield a solution containing the product, 9-bromo-3-(2-bromo-1-hydroxyethyl)-10,1 1
                                                   87

   dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (Compound (5-5)). HRMS (ESI MS/MS)
   Calculated for C 19Hl 7Br2O 3 m/z (M+H): 450.9544 and 452.9524; Found: 450.9524, and
   452.9534; IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 7.75 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H),
   7.42 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.24 (s, 1H), 5.13 (s, 2H), 4.99-4.96 (m, 1H), 4.73 (dd, J= 4.1, 4.1
 5 Hz, 1H), 3.69-3.66 (m, 1H), 3.58-3.53 (m, 1H), 3.35-3.27 (m, 1H), 2.96-2.90 (m, 1H), 2.58
   2.44 (m, 2H), C-OH not observed.
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, various brominating agents may be employed, such as bromine,
   bromine monochloride, N-bromosuccinimide, 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin, 2,4,4,6
10 tetrabromo-2,5-cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric acid, tribromoisocyanuric acid, N
   bromoisocyanuric acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide,
   N,N'-dibromo-4-methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium
   bromate, tetra-n-butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide,
   trimethylammonium tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support,
15 4-(dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
   bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
   beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite, N,N
   dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite, N-bromo
   glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5-dimethylhydantoin,
20  1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5-ethyl-5
   methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, 3-bromo-5-methyl-5-phenyl
   imidaolidine-2,4-dione, dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane, carbon tetrabromide, bromoform,
   dibromomethane, hexabromoacetone, lithium bromide, sodium bromide, potassium bromide,
   cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium bromide, calcium bromide, aluminum
25 bromide, indium bromide, titanium bromide, ferrous bromide, ferric bromide, tin bromide,
   and hydrobromic acid.
           Alternative solvents can include 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl
   acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether,
   diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4
30 dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2
   dichloroethane, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene, and
   nitromethane.
                                                    88

           The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 0 'C to about 5 'C
   or about -10 'C to about 100 'C and at time lengths of about 30 minutes to about 4 hours or
   about 30 minutes to about 24 hours.
 5 Reaction of Compound (5-5) to Compound (I-a)
           A solution of 9-bromo-3 -(2-bromo- 1-hydroxyethyl)- 10,11 -dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (approx. 3.2 g) (Compound (5-5)) in dichloromethane (60
   mL) at about 20 'C was combined with sodium bicarbonate (0.8 g), sodium bromide (0.8 g),
   TEMPO (56 mg) and water (18 mL). The mixture was combined with an aqueous solution of
10 sodium hypochlorite (10.3% wt., 9.4 mL). After completion of the reaction, isopropyl alcohol
   (9.1 mL) was added followed by an aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid (10% wt., 4.3 mL).
   The mixture was filtered and the cake washed with water (29 mL) and a 1:5 mixture of
   isopropyl alcohol and dichloromethane at about 5 'C. The solids were collected and dried
   under vacuum to obtain 9-bromo-3-(2-bromoacetyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen
15 8(9H)-one (Compound (I-a)). HRMS (ESI MS/MS) Calculated for Chemical Formula:
   C1 9Hi 5Br 2O3 m/z (M+H): 448.9388 and 450.9367; Found: 448.9396, and 450.9380.         1HNMR
   (400 MHz, CDCl 3)    6 8.03-8.01 (m, 1H), 7.85 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (s, 1H), 7.71 (s, 1H),
   7.67 (s, 1H), 5.19 (s, 2H), 4.74 (dd, J= 4.1, 4.1 Hz, 1H), 4.45 (s, 2H), 3.37-3.29 (m, 1H),
   2.99-2.92 (m,1H), 2.59-2.46 (m, 2H);    13
                                              C NMR (100 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 190.4, 189.6, 154.2,
20  136.6, 134.1, 133.9, 132.9, 131.8, 129.3, 127.2, 125.6, 124.2, 123.3, 117.0, 68.1, 49.9, 31.8,
   30.4, 25.5.
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative catalysts, in lieu of TEMPO, may include
   tetrapropylammonium perruthenate, 2-azaadamantane-N-oxyl, 1-methyl-2-azaadamantane-N
25 oxyl, 1,3-dimethyl-2-azaadamantane-N-oxyl, and 4-acetamido-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine
    1-oxoammonium tetrafluoroborate.
           Various oxidizing agents may be employed. Examples of oxidizing agents can include
   diacetoxy iodobenzene, di(trifluoxoacetoxy) iodobenzene, dichloro iodobenzene, potassium
   persulfate, sodium perborate, sodium bromate, sodium iodate, sodium periodate, urea
30 hydorgen peroxide, tert-butylhydroperoxide, N-methylmorpholine-N-oxide,
   trimethyammonium-N-oxide, sodium dichloroisocyanuric acid, iodosobenzene, N-bromo
   succinimide, N-bromoacetamide, N-bromophthalimide, sodium bromite, sodium
   hypobromite, m-chloroperbenzoic acid, 2-iodoxybenzoic acid, ruthenium trichloride,
   rhodium(I) tris-(triphenylphosphine) chloride, palladium(II) acetate, titanium
                                                   89

   tetraisopropoxide, ferric bromide, copper(I) chloride, copper(II) chloride, copper(I) bromide,
   copper(II) bromide, tetrapropylammonium perruthenate, N-chloro succinimide, 1,1,1
   triacetoxy-1,1-dihydro-1,2-benziodoxol-3(1H)-one, trimethyl aluminium, aluminum
   triisopropoxide, dimethylsulfoxide, potassium peroxymonosulfate, cericammonium nitrate,
 5 oxygen, trichloroisicyanuric acid, cromine, iodine, chlorine, bromine, bromine monochloride,
   5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin, pyridinium tribromide, 2,4,4,6-tetrabromo-2,5
   cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric acid, tribromoisocyanuric acid, N-bromoisocyanuric
   acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide, N,N'-dibromo-4
   methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium bromate, tetra-n
10 butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide, trimethylammonium
   tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support, 4
   (dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
   bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
   beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite, N,N
15 dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite, N-bromo
   glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5
   dDimethylhydantoin, 1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5
   ethyl-5-methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, and 3-bromo-5
   methyl-5-phenyl-imidaolidine-2,4-dione, dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane.
20         Alternative addivites can include hydrobromic acid, lithium bromide, sodium
   bromide, potassium bromide, cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium bromide,
   calcium bromide, tetrabutylammonium bromide, tetraethylammonium bromide, tetramethyl
   bromide, pyridinium bromide, aluminum bromide, titanium bromide, indium bromide, ferric
   bromide, fFerrous bromide, copper(I) bromide, copper(II) bromide, hydroiodic acid, lithium
25 iodide, sodium iodide, potassium iodide, cesium iodide, beryllium iodide, magnesium iodide,
   calcium iodide, tetrabutylammonium iodide, tetraethylammonium iodide, tetramethyl iodide,
   pyridinium iodide, aluminum iodide, titanium iodide, indium iodide, ferric iodide, ferrous
   iodide, copper(I) iodide, and copper(II) iodide.
           Various bases may be employed, such as lithium carbonate, sodium carbonate, cesium
30 carbonate, beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, calcium carbonate, strontium
   carbonate, barium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide,
   cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, strontium
   hydroxide, barium hydroxide, lithium bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium
   bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium bicarbonate, magnesium bicarbonate, calcium
                                                  90

   bicarbonate, strontium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate, lithium tert-butoxide, sodium tert
   butoxide, potassium tert-butoxide, cesium tert-butoxide, beryllium tert-butoxide, magnesium
   tert-butoxide, calcium tert-butoxide, strontium tert-butoxide, barium tert-butoxide, trilithium
   phosphate, trisodium phosphate, tripotassium phosphate, tricesium phosphate, beryllium
 5 phosphate, magnesium phosphate, calcium phosphate, strontium phosphate, dilithium
   hydrogenphosphate, disodium hydrogenphosphate, dipotassium hydrogenphosphate,
   dicesium hydrogenphosphate, lithium dihydrogenphosphate, sodium dihydrogenphosphate,
   potassium dihydrogenphosphate, and cesium dihydrogenphosphate.
            Alternative solvents can include 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl
10 acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether,
   diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4
   dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2
   dichloroethane, tert-butanol, benzene, and nitromethane.
            The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 20 'C to about 25
15 'C or about 0 'C to about 40 'C and at time lengths of about 30 minutes to about 2 hours or
   about 0.2 hours to about 24 hours.
                        Example 6: Alternative Synthesis of Compound (I-a)
   Br H                                    Br O                                Br                  Br
        Compound (5-4)                         Compound (6)                        Compound (1-a)
20
   Reaction of Compound (5-4) to Compound (6)
            To a IL reactor was charged 3-(2-bromo-1-hydroxyethyl)-10,1 1-dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (25 g), (Compound (5-4)) dichloromethane (370 mL), and
   TEMPO (0.2 g). The mixture was cooled to about 2 'C. A solution of sodium bicarbonate
25 (7.4 g), sodium bromide (7.4 g) and water (130 mL) was charged and the mixture agitated.
   The mixture was combined with an aqueous solution of sodium hypochlorite (11.9 owt., 80
   mL). After completion of the reaction, 2-propanol (40 mL) was charged and the mixture
   warmed to about 25 'C. A volume of about two-thirds of dichloromethane was removed
   under reduced pressure, the mixture cooled to about 5 'C and then filtered through a fritted
30 funnel. The filter cake was washed twice with water (75 mL) and with dichloromethane (30
   mL) and then dried at about 40 'C under reduced pressure to provide 3-(2-bromoacetyl)
                                                    91

    10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (Compound (6)). 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl3) 6 8.01 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 8.01 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (d,
   J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (s, 1H), 7.81 (s, 1H), 7.65 (s, 2H), 7.65 (s, 2H), 5.18 (s, 2H), 4.45 (s,
   2H), 3.08 - 2.91 (m, 2H), 2.75 - 2.59 (m, 2H), 2.26 - 2.07 (m, 2H).
 5          Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative catalysts can include tetrapropylammonium
   perruthenate, 2-azaadamantane-N-oxyl, 1-methyl-2-azaadamantane-N-oxyl, 1,3-dimethyl-2
   azaadamantane-N-oxyl, and 4-acetamido-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxoammonium
   tetrafluoroborate.
10          Various oxidizing agents may be employed. Non-limiting examples include diacetoxy
   iodobenzene, di(trifluoxoacetoxy) iodobenzene, dichloro iodobenzene, potassium persulfate,
   sodium perborate, sodium bromate, sodium iodate, sodium periodate, urea hydorgen
   peroxide, tert-butylhydroperoxide, N-methylmorpholine-N-oxide, trimethyammonium-N
   oxide, sodium dichloroisocyanuric acid, iodosobenzene, N-bromo succinimide,
15 N-bromoacetamide, N-bromophthalimide, sodium bromite, sodium hypobromite, m
   chloroperbenzoic acid, 2-iodoxybenzoic acid, ruthenium trichloride, rhodium(I) tris
   (triphenylphosphine) chloride, palladium(II) acetate, titanium tetraisopropoxide, ferric
   bromide, copper(I) chloride, copper(II) chloride, copper(I) bromide, copper(II) bromide,
   tetrapropylammonium perruthenate, N-chloro succinimide, 1,1,1 -triacetoxy- 1,1 -dihydro- 1,2
20 benziodoxol-3(lH)-one, trimethyl aluminium, aluminum triisopropoxide, dimethylsulfoxide,
   potassium peroxymonosulfate, cericammonium nitrate, oxygen, trichloroisicyanuric acid,
   cromine, iodine, chlorine, bromine, bromine monochloride, 5,5-dimethyl-1,3
   dibromohydantoin, pyridinium tribromide, 2,4,4,6-tetrabromo-2,5-cyclohexadienone,
   dibromoisocyanuric acid, tribromoisocyanuric Acid, N-bromoisocyanuric acid monosodium
25 salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide, N,N'-dibromo-4
   methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium bromate, tetra-n
   butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide, trimethylammonium
   tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support, 4
   (dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
30 bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
   beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite, N,N
   dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite, N-bromo
   glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5-dimethylhydantoin,
    1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5-ethyl-5
                                                  92

   methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, and 3-bromo-5-methyl-5
   phenyl-imidaolidine-2,4-dione, and dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane.
            Alternative additives may be employed, such as hydrobromic acid, lithium bromide,
   sodium bromide, potassium bromide, cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium
 5 bromide, calcium bromide, tetrabutylammonium bromide, tetraethylammonium bromide,
   tetramethyl bromide, pyridinium bromide, aluminum bromide, titanium bromide, indium
   bromide, ferric bromide, ferrous bromide, copper(I) bromide, copper(II) bromide, hydroiodic
   acid, lithium iodide, sodium iodide, potassium iodide, cesium iodide, beryllium iodide,
   magnesium iodide, calcium iodide, tetrabutylammonium iodide, tetraethylammonium iodide,
10 tetramethyl iodide, pyridinium iodide, aluminum iodide, titanium iodide, indium iodide,
   ferric iodide, ferrous iodide, copper (I) iodide, and copper (II) iodide.
            Various bases may be employed, such as lithium carbonate, sodium carbonate, cesium
   carbonate, beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, calcium carbonate, strontium
   carbonate, barium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide,
15 cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, strontium
   hydroxide, barium hydroxide, lithium bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium
   bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium bicarbonate, magnesium bicarbonate, calcium
   bicarbonate, strontium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate, lithium tert-butoxide, sodium tert
   butoxide, potassium tert-butoxide, cesium tert-butoxide, beryllium tert-butoxide, magnesium
20 tert-butoxide, calcium tert-butoxide, strontium tert-butoxide, barium tert-butoxide, trilithium
   phosphate, trisodium phosphate, tripotassium phosphate, tricesium phosphate, beryllium
   phosphate, magnesium phosphate, calcium phosphate, strontium phosphate, dilithium
   hydrogenphosphate, disodium hydrogenphosphate, dipotassium hydrogenphosphate,
   dicesium hydrogenphosphate, lithium dihydrogenphosphate, sodium dihydrogenphosphate,
25 potassium dihydrogenphosphate, and cesium dihydrogenphosphate.
            Alternative solvents can be employed. Non-limiting examples can include 2
   methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl
   ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone,
   methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl Ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform,
30 acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, tert-butanol, benzene, and
   nitromethane.
            The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 20 'C to about 25
   'C or about 0 'C to about 40 'C and at time lengths of about 30 minutes to about 2 hours or
   about 0.2 hours to about 6 hours.
                                                    93

   Reaction of Compound (6) to Compound (I-a)
            A mixture of 3-(2-bromoacetyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one
   (2.58 g) (Compound (6)), pyridinium tribromide (2.56 g), dichloromethane (22 mL) and
 5 methanol (2.5 mL) was stirred at ambient temperature for 3 hours. The mixture was filtered,
   the filter cake washed with dichloromethane (10mL) and then dried under reduced pressure at
   40 'C to give 9-bromo-3-(2-bromoacetyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one
   (Compound (I-a)). HRMS (ESI MS/MS) Calculated for Chemical Formula: C19 H15 Br 2 O 3
   m/z (M+H): 448.9388 and 450.9367; Found: 448.9396, and 450.9380. 'HNMR (400 MHz,
10 CDCl3)    6 8.03-8.01 (m, 1H), 7.85 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (s, 1H), 7.71 (s, 1H), 7.67 (s, 1H),
   5.19 (s, 2H), 4.74 (dd, J= 4.1, 4.1 Hz, 1H), 4.45 (s, 2H), 3.37-3.29 (m, 1H), 2.99-2.92
   (m,1H), 2.59-2.46 (m, 2H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, additional starting material in lieu of Compound (6) may be 3
15 acetyl-10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one and 3-acetyl-9-bromo-10,11
   dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one.
            Various brominating agents may be employed. Non-limiting examples can include
   bromine, bromine monochloride, N-bromosuccinimide, 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin,
   2,4,4,6-tetrabromo-2,5-cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric acid, tribromoisocyanuric
20 acid, N-bromoisocyanuric acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide,
   N,N'-dibromo-4-methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium
   bromate, tetra-n-butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide,
   trimethylammonium tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support,
   4-(dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
25 bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
   beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite, N,N
   dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite, N-bromo
   glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5-dimethylhydantoin,
    1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5-ethyl-5
30 methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, 3-bromo-5-methyl-5-phenyl
   imidaolidine-2,4-dione, dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane, carbon tetrabromide, bromoform,
   dibromomethane, hexabromoacetone, lithium bromide, sodium bromide, potassium bromide,
   cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium bromide, calcium bromide, aluminum
                                                   94

   bromide, indium bromide, titanium bromide, ferrous bromide, ferric bromide, tin bromide,
   and hydrobromic acid.
            Alternative solvents may be 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl
   acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether,
 5 diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4
   dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2
   dichloroethane, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene, and
   nitromethane.
            The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 00 C to about 5'C
10 or about -1 0 C to about 100 0 C and at time lengths of about 30 minutes to about 4 hours or
   about 30 minutes to about 24 hours.
                        Example 7: Alternative Synthesis of Compound (I-a)
                    0                                              0
                              0                               -0
         ci    c                  TMS       H    TMS    =0
             Compound (5-3)                                Compound (7)
                                       0                                          0
                                         M                           Br              -      Br
                                Compound (K)                              Compound (1-a)
15 Reaction of Compound (5-3) to Compound (7)
            A reaction flask at ambient temperature was charged with 3-chloro-10,1 1-dihydro
   5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (10.0g,) (Compound (5-3)), powdered anhydrous
   tripotassium phosphate (22.4 g), 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl
   ("XPhos") (1.34 g), and PdCl 2(MeCN) 2 (364 mg). Acetonitrile (140 mL) was added
20 followed by trimethylsilylacetylene (18 mL). The mixture was heated to about 65 'C. After
   about 6 h, the reaction was judged complete, and the mixture was cooled to about 20 'C. The
   mixture was drained and filtered through a fritted funnel, and the filter cake was washed with
   MeCN. The filtrate was concentrated to about 150 mL under reduced pressure and extracted
   with heptane (50 mL, then 3 x100 mL). N-Acetyl cysteine (15 g) was added to the MeCN
25 phase, and the mixture was agitated for about 5 h at about 45 'C. The mixture was cooled to
   about 23 'C, filtered through a fritted funnel, and the filter cake was washed with MeCN.
   The filtrate was concentrated to about 120 mL under reduced pressure. Water (120 mL) was
   added and the mixture was agitated for about 40 minutes at about 45 'C and then cooled to
                                                    95

   ambient temperature. After about 30 minutes the mixture was filtered through a fritted funnel
   to provide 3-((trimethylsilyl)ethynyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one
   (Compound (7)). MS (ESIP MS/MS) Calculated for Chemical Formula: C22H 23 0 2 Si m/z
   (M+H): 347.1467; Found: 347.1486. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 7.65 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H),
 5 7.60 (s, 1H), 7.55 (s, 1H), 7.47 (dd, J = 8.1, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.27 (s, 1H), 5.06 (s, 2H), 2.95 (t, J
    = 6.1 Hz, 2H), 2.67 - 2.59 (m, 2H), 2.18 - 2.08 (m, 2H), 0.26 (s, 9H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative starting material, in lieu of 3-chloro-10,11-dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, may be compounds of the following structures:
                                          00
                         1R                  0          R      -0
                         Rg           -                    110   \/
10
   wherein R9 may be alkoxy, aryloxy, or heterocyclooxy. Other alternative starting material
   can include 3-chloro-10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-bromo-10,11
   dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-iodo-10,11-dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl
15 trifluoromethanesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl
   benzenesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3 -yl 4
   methylbenzenesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl 4
   fluorobenzenesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-3-yl 4
   (trifluoromethyl)benzenesulfonate, 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3
20 carboxylic acid, lithium 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate,
   sodium 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3 -carboxylate, potassium 8
   oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3 -carboxylate, cesium 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11
   tetrahydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, methyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, ethyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
25 dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, propyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, isopropyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, butyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, isobutyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11-tetrahydro-5H
30 dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, phenyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, p-tolyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-nitrophenyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
                                                    96

   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-fluorophenyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro
   5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, 4-methoxyphenyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, trifluoromethyl 8-oxo-8,9, 10,11 -tetrahydro-5H
 5 dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, difluoromethyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate, and fluoromethyl 8-oxo-8,9,10,11-tetrahydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromene-3-carboxylate.
            Alternative metal components and ligand components of the catalyst may be
   employed. Non-limiting examples of metal components can include palladium(II)
10 trifluoroacetate, palladium (II) acetylacetonate, allylpalladium(II) chloride dimer,
   palladium(II) acetate, palladium (II) pivalate, palladium(II) chloride, palladium (II) bromide,
   tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium, bis(dibenzylideneacetone)palladium,
   bis(acetonitrile)dichloropalladium(II), tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium(0)-chloroform
   adduct, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0),
15 dichlorobis(tricyclohexylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II)
   dichloride, dichlorobis(tri-o-tolylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(di-tert-butyl(4
   dimethylaminophenyl)phosphine)dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II) complex with dichloromethane, [1,1'
20 bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), tetrakis(acetonitrile)palladium(II)
   tetrafluoroborate, (SPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (XPhos) palladium(II)
   phenethylamine chloride, (RuPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (t-BuXPhos)
   palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, and (BrettPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine
   chloride.
25          Ligand components may be phosphines with at least one alkyl substituent. Non
   limiting examples of ligand components may be tri-(2-furyl)phosphine, tri-tert
   butylphosphine, tri-tert-butylphosphine hydro tetrafluoroborate, methyl-di-tert
   butylphosphine, methyl-di-tert-butylphosphine hydro tetrafluoroborate, 4,5
   bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)-9,9-dimethylxanthene, tri(cyclohexyl)phosphine, tri(2
30 furanyl)phosphine, 1,1'- bis(diphenylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,1'- bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)
   ferrocene, 1,1'- bis(ditertbutylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,3 -bis-(2,6
   diisopropylphenyl)imidazolinium chloride, 1,3-bis(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)imidazolinium
   chloride, 1,3-diisopropylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate, 1,3-bis(1-adamantyl)imidazolium
   tetrafluoroborate, 2-(dicyclohexylphosphino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-(N,N
                                                   97

   dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl, 2
   Dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-methylbiphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',6'
   diisopropoxybiphenyl, 2-(dicyclohexylphosphino)3,6-dimethoxy-2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'
   biphenyl, sodium 2'-dicyclohexylphosphino-2,6-dimethoxy- 1,1 '-biphenyl-3 -sulfonate
 5 hydrate, 2-diphenylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino
   2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl, (2-biphenyl)di-tert-butylphosphine, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino
   3,4,5,6-tetramethyl-2',4',6'-triisopropyl- 1,1 '-biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino-2'
   methylbiphenyl, 2-(di-tert-butylphosphino)-2',4',6'- triisopropyl-3,6-dimethoxy- 1,1 '-biphenyl,
   2-Di-tert-butylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-{bis[3,5
10 bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]phosphino}-3,6-dimethoxy -2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'-biphenyl,
   bis(diphenylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(diphenylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
   bis(diphenylphosphino)propane, 1,4-bis(diphenylphosphino)butane, 1,5
   bis(diphenylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(diphenylphosphino)hexane,
   bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
15 bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5
   bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)hexane,
   bis(diisopropylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(diisopropylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
   bis(diisopropylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5
   bis(diisopropylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(diisopropylphosphino)hexane, bis(di-tert
20 butylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ethane, 1,3-bis(di-tert
   butylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5-bis(di-tert
   butylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)hexane,
   bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
   bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5
25 bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)hexane, and the like.
             Various bases may also be employed, such as lithium carbonate, sodium carbonate,
   cesium carbonate, beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate, calcium carbonate, strontium
   carbonate, barium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide,
   cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide, magnesium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, strontium
30 hydroxide, barium hydroxide, lithium bicarbonate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium
   bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium bicarbonate, magnesium bicarbonate, calcium
   bicarbonate, strontium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate, lithium hydride, sodium hydride,
   potassium hydride, magnesium hydride, calcium hydride, lithium tert-butoxide, sodium tert
   butoxide, potassium tert-butoxide, cesium tert-butoxide, beryllium tert-butoxide, magnesium
                                                      98

   tert-butoxide, calcium tert-butoxide, strontium tert-butoxide, barium tert-butoxide, aluminum
   tert-butoxide, titanium tert-butoxide, 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine, 2,6-ditertbutylpyridine,
   4-methyl-2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, trilithium phosphate, trisodium phosphate, tripotassium
   phosphate, tricesium phosphate, beryllium phosphate, magnesium phosphate, calcium
 5 phosphate, strontium phosphate, dilithium hydrogenphosphate, disodium hydorgenphosphate,
   dipotassium hydrogenphosphate, dicesium hydrogenphosphate, lithium dihydrogenphosphate,
   sodium dihydrogenphosphate, potassium dihydrogenphosphate, cesium
   dihydrogenphosphate, lithium tert-butylcarboxylate, sodium tert-butylcarboxylate, potassium
   tert-butylcarboxylate, cesium tert-butylcarboxylate, lithium acetate, sodium acetate,
10 potassium acetate, cesium acetate, lithium propanoate, sodium propanoate, potassium
   propanoate, cesium propanoate, lithium isobutyrate, sodium isobutyrate, potassium
   isobutyrate, cesium isobutyrate, lithium adamantylcarboxylate, sodium
   adamantylcarboxylate, potassium adamantylcarboxylate, cesium adamantylcarboxylate,
   lithium trifluoroaceate, sodium trifluoroaceate, potassium trifluoroaceate, cesium
15 trifluoroaceate, triethylamine, trimethylamine, tripropylamine, tributylamine,
   diisopropylethylamine, dicyclohexylmethylamine, lithium methoxide, lithium ethoxide,
   lithium isopropoxide, lithium propoxide, lithium butoxide, lithium phenoxide, sodium
   methoxide, sodium ethoxide, sodium isopropoxide, sodium butoxide, sodium phenoxide,
   potassium methoxide, potassium ethoxide, potassium isopropoxide, potassium propoxide,
20 potassium butoxide, potassium phenoxide, cesium methoxide, cesium ethoxide, cesium
   isopropoxide, cesium propoxide, cesium butoxide, and cesium phenoxide.
            Alternative solvents can include N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide,
   N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl
   acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, diisopropylether,
25 acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2
   dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane
   dimethylsulfoxide, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene,
   and nitromethane.
            The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 5 'C to about 100
30 'C and at time lengths of about 1 hour to about 48 hours.
   Reaction of Compound (7) to Compound (K)
            3-((Trimethylsilyl)ethynyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one        (850
   mg) was combined with formic acid (9.8 mL) at about 23 'C. The mixture was heated to
                                                   99

   about 65 'C. After about 3 h, the reaction was judged complete. The mixture was
   concentrated under reduced pressure; the resulting residue was purified by chromatography
   on a silica gel column eluting with a solvent gradient from 5% to 85% EtOAc/hexanes. The
   product containing fractions were combined and concentrated to provide 3-acetyl-10,1 1
 5 dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (Compound (K)): 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )
   6 8.00 - 7.94 (m, 1H), 7.81 (d, J   = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.77 (s, 1H), 7.64 (s, 2H), 5.16 (s, 2H), 2.98
   (t, J = 6.1 Hz, 2H), 2.69 - 2.64 (m, 2H), 2.63 (s, 3H), 2.21 - 2.09 (m, 2H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative starting material, in lieu of Compound (K), may be 3
10 ((triisopropylsilyl)ethynyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one,         3
   ((triethylsilyl)ethynyl)- 10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-((tert
   butyldiphenylsilyl)ethynyl)- 10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3
   ((methyldiphenylsilyl)ethynyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one,             3-(3
   hydroxy-3-methylbut-1-ynyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one,              3-ethynyl
15  10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-(1-methoxyvinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-(1-ethoxyvinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen
   8(9H)-one, 3-(1-(2-hydroxyethoxy)vinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)
   one, 3-(1-isopropoxyvinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one,            3-(1
   propoxyvinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one,            3-(1-butoxyvinyl)-10,11
20 dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-(1-bromovinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one, 3-(1-chlorovinyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen
   8(9H)-one, 3 -(2-methyl- 1,3 -dioxolan-2-yl)- 10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)
   one, 3-(2-methyl-1,3-dioxan-2-yl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one,              3-(2
   methyl-1,3-dioxepan-2-yl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one,            and 3-(2
25 methyl- 1,3 -dioxocan-2-yl)- 10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo [c,g] chromen-8(9H)-one.
            Alternative acids may include formic acid, acetic acid, propanoic acid, butyric acid,
   isobutyric acid, pentanoic acid, pivalic acid, trifluoroacetic acid, difluoroacetic acid,
   fluoroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, chloroacetic acid, benzoic acid, 4
   nitrobenzoic acid, 4-fluorobenzoic acid, 4-chlorobenzoic acid, 4-fromobenzoic acid, 4
30 iodobenzoic acid, 4-methylbenzoic acid, 4-trifluoromethylbenzoic acid, phenol, 4
   nitrophenol, 4-fluorophenol, 4-chlorophenol, 4-bromophenol, 4-iodophenol, 4
   trifluoromethylphenol, 4-methylphenol, methylsulfonic acid, trifluoromethylsulfonic acid,
   benzenesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, 4-nitrobenzenesulfonic acid, 4
   fluorobenzenesulfonic acid, 4-chlorobenzenesulfonic acid, 4-bromobenzenesulfonic acid, 4
                                                   100

   iodobenzenesulfonic acid, 4-trifluoromethylbenzenesulfonic acid, tetrafluoroboric acid,
   fluoroantimonic acid, hydrofluoric acid, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic
   acid, phosphoric acid, and sulfuric acid.
            Various solvents may be employed. Non-limiting examples include
 5 N,N-dimethylformamide, N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone,
   diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene,
   dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane dimethylsulfoxide, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 2
10 propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene, and nitromethane.
            The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 0 'C to about 100
   'C and at time lengths of about 12 minutes to about 48 hours.
   Reaction of Compound (K) to Compound (I-a)
15          A reaction vessel at ambient temperature was charged with 3-acetyl-10,11-dihydro
   5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (100 mg) (Compound (K)), 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH (3.4
   mL) and pyridinium tribromide (246 mg). The solution was heated to about 35 'C. After
   about 30 minutes, the reaction was judged complete. The mixture was cooled to about 23 'C,
   diluted with EtOAc (50 mL) and sequentially washed with saturated aqueous Na 2 S2 0 3 (20
20 mL), 2% aqueous NaHCO 3 (20 mL), water (20 mL), and brine (10 mL). The organic phase
   was dried over MgSO 4 , filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure resulting in 9
   bromo-3-(2-bromoacetyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one            (Compound
   (I-a)): 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.03 - 8.01 (m, 1H), 7.85 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (s,
    1H), 7.71 (s, 1H), 7.67 (s, 1H), 5.19 (s, 2H), 4.74 (dd, J= 4.1, 4.1 Hz, 1H), 4.45 (s, 2H), 3.37
25 3.29 (m, 1H), 2.99 - 2.92 (m,1H), 2.59 - 2.46 (m, 2H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, in lieu of Compound (K), alternative starting material may be 3-(2
   bromoacetyl)-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one           (Compound (6)) or 3
   acetyl-9-bromo-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one.
30          Various brominating agents may be used. Non-limiting examples can include
   bromine, bromine monochloride, N-bromosuccinimide, 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin,
   2,4,4,6-tetrabromo-2,5-cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric acid, tribromoisocyanuric
   acid, N-bromoisocyanuric acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide,
   N,N'-dibromo-4-methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium
                                                    101

   bromate, tetra-n-butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide,
   trimethylammonium tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support,
   4-(dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
   bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
 5 beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite, N,N
   dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite, N-bromo
   glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5-dimethylhydantoin,
    1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5-ethyl-5
   methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, 3-bromo-5-methyl-5-phenyl
10 imidaolidine-2,4-dione, dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane, carbon tetrabromide, bromoform,
   dibromomethane, hexabromoacetone, lithium bromide, sodium bromide, potassium bromide,
   cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium bromide, calcium bromide, aluminum
   bromide, indium bromide, titanium bromide, ferrous bromide, ferric bromide, tin bromide,
   and hydrobromic acid.
15         Alternative solvents may be employed, such as dimethylsulfoxide,
   N,N-dimethylformamide, N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone,
   diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene,
20 dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol,
   benzene, and nitromethane.
           The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 0 'C to about 60
   'C and at time lengths of about 2 hours to about 5 hours or about 12 minutes to about 24
   hours.
25
                                                   102

                        Example 8: Alternative Synthesis of Compound (I-a)
                                         6    OH0
                                               H                                    X
    I         B                    Br                -                  Me          Br
     Compound (8-1)                   Compound (M-a)                  Compound (M-b): X = CI
                                                                      Compound (M-c): X = Br
                      HO                                              Compound (M-d): X  = OSO 2CH 3
                                      00
                                          0          0
                            t
                     Compound (N)         M     /Br
                                      -  Me            -z
                                             Compound (L-a)
                                 0                                           0
                      0      -0                                   0      -0
                     Me             -Br
                                                                                       Br
                         Compound (K)                                  Compound (1-a)
 5 Preparation of Compound (M-a) from Compound (8-1)
            To a stirred solution of 2-bromo-5-iodobenzyl alcohol (5.0 g, 16.0 mmol)
   (Compound (8-1)) in dry THF (40mL) was added a 2 M solution of isopropylmagnesium
   chloride in THF (17.6 mL, 35.2 mmol) while maintaining the internal temperature below
   about -10 'C. A white suspension was formed after 5min. The mixture was stirred for about
10  lh at or below about -10 'C and then was added N-methoxy-N-methylacetamide (3.73 mL,
   35.2 mmol) dropwise over a period of about 3min. The reaction mixture was allowed to
   warm to about 20 'C over lh. The reaction mixture was cooled to about 0 'C, quenched with
   3N HCl (25 mL), and diluted with tert-butylmethyl ether (50 mL). The resulting biphasic
   mixture was stirred and the layers separated. The organic layer was washed with IM HCl (50
15 mL) followed by water (50 mL) and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford
   Compound (M-a) as a crude product mixture which was used in next step without further
   purification. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.07 (s, 1H), 7.72 (d, J=8.4Hz, 1H), 7.63 (d,
   J=8.4Hz, 1H), 4.79 (s, 2H), 2.59 (s, 3H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
20 employed. For example, alternative metalation reagents, in lieu of isopropylmagnesium
   chloride, can be magnesium metal, alkyllithium, or lithium metal, and alternative acylating
   reagents, in lieu of N-methoxy-N-methylacetamide, may be acetonitrile, acetyl chloride or
   acetic anhydride. Various additives may be employed, such as hexamethylphosphoramide,
                                                  103

   N,N,N',N'-tetramethylethylendiamine, and chlorotrimethylsilane. Various solvents, such as
   tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, or mixtures of toluene and tetrahydrofuran may be
   employed, and the reaction may proceed at temperatures of about -- 15 'C to about 20 'C.
 5 Alternative Preparation of Compound (M-a) via Tert-butyldimethylsilyl Ether Protection
              OH                         OTBDMS                    OTBDMS                   OH
    IBrH            Step A    -                Step B                    Step C    OB
         I    Br     -      -   1-       Br          -             Br    StepC               Br
    Compound (8-1)               Compound (8-2)           Compound (8-3)          Compound (M-a)
            Step A: To a stirred solution of 2-bromo-5-iodobenzylalcohol (10 g, 32 mmol)
   (Compound (8-1)) in dichloromethane (200 mL) was added imidazole followed by TBDMS
10 Cl at room temperature. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for about 2 h and
   partitioned between dichloromethane (additional 100 mL) and water (200 mL). The
   combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated
   under reduced pressure to give (2-bromo-5-iodobenzyloxy)(tert-butyl)dimethylsilane,
   Compound (8-2), which was used in next step without further purification.
15          Step B: To a stirred solution of Compound (8-2) (12.5 g, 29.3 mmol) in dry THF
   (37.5 mL) was added a 2M solution of isopropylmagnesium chloride in THF (16.1 mL, 32.2
   mmol) while maintaining the internal temperature below -20 C. The mixture was stirred for
   about 45 min at or below -20 'C and then was added with N-methoxy-N-methylacetamide
   (3.73mL, 35.2mmol) dropwise over a period of about 3 min. The resulting mixture was
20 allowed to warm to about 20 'C over about 1 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to about 0
   'C,quenched with saturated NH 4 Cl (10 mL), diluted with tert-butylmethyl ether (100 mL),
   and washed with water (2x50 mL). The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium
   sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give 1-(4-bromo-3-((tert
   butyldimethylsilyloxy) methyl)phenyl)ethanone, Compound (8-3). The crude product was
25 used in next step without further purification.
            Step C: To a stirred solution of Compound (8-3) (11.42 g, 33.3 mmol) in THF (55 L)
   was added a 2 M solution of HCl in water (33.3 mL) at room temperature and the mixture
   was stirred for about 3 h. The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate and,
   sequentially, saturated sodium bicarbonate and water. The organic layer was dried over
30 anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give
   Compound (M-a).
                                                    104

           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, in Step B, alternative metalation reagents, in lieu of
   isopropylmagnesium chloride, may be magnesium metal, alkyl lithium, or lithium metal, and
   alternative acylating reagents, in lieu of N-methoxy-N-methylacetamide, may be acetonitrile,
 5 acetyl chloride or acetic anhydride. Various additives may be employed, such as
   hexamethylphosphoramide, N,N,N',N'-tetramethylethylendiamine, and
   chlorotrimethylsilane. Various solvents, such as tetrahydrofuran or 2-methyltetrahydrofuran,
   may be employed, and the reaction may proceed at temperatures of about -15 'C to about 20
   'C. The reaction may proceed at time lengths of about 1 hour to about 5 hours.
10         In Step A, alternative protecting groups, such as trimethylsilyl, triethylsilyl, tert
   butyldiphenylsilyl, tetrahydropyranyl, etc may be used. Depending on the protecting group
   used in Step A, an appropriate deprotection conditions should be employed in Step C.
   Strategies for protection/deprotection are well known in the art. See e.g., Protective Groups
   in Organic Chemistry, Theodora W. Greene, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, 1991.
15 The reactions in Steps A and C can proceed at about 20 'C and at time lengths of about 2
   hours to about 3 hours.
   Preparation of Compound (M-b), 1-(4-bromo-3-(chloromethyl)phenyl)ethanone
                                     OH                               ci
                                                                      Br
                            o         Br
                           Compound (M-a)                   Compound (M-b)
20         To a stirred solution of 1-(4-bromo-3-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl)ethanone (3.1 g, 13.5
   mmol) in dry THF (30 mL) was added triethylamine (2.82 mL, 20.25 mmol) and the mixture
   was cooled to about 0 'C. Methanesulfonyl chloride (1.15 mL, 14.9 mmol) was added to the
   cold mixture dropwise over a period of about 3 min. The resultant mixture was stirred at
   about 0 'C for about 30 min and then lithium chloride (2.9 g, 67.5 mmol) was added. The
25 mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for about an additional 2 h.
   The reaction mixture was partitioned between tert-butylmethyl ether (30 mL) and water
   (2x15 mL). The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to a minimum volume. Heptane (15 mL) was added to
   the residue and the mixture was gently stirred for about 2 h to give a suspension. The solids
30 were collected by filtration, washed with heptane (5 mL) and dried under vacuum to give
                                                  105

   Compound (M-b). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )           6 8.05 (s, 1H), 7.75 (d, J=8.4Hz, 1H), 7.69
   (d, J=8.4Hz, 1H), 4.73 (s, 2H), 2.60 (s, 3H).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative reagents in lieu of methanesulfonyl chloride may be
 5 methanesulfonic anhydride. Alternative reagents for chlorination may be tosyl
   chloride/lithium chloride, thionyl chloride, and triphenylphosphine/N-chlorosuccinimide.
   Residual triethylamine hydrochloride salt generated during mesylation reaction may also be
   used as chlorinating agent without using lithium chloride. Various solvents may be employed,
   such as tetrahydrofuran and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran. The reaction may take place at
10 temperatures that range from about 0 'C to about 20 'C and at time lengths of about 5 hours
   to about 7 hours.
   Preparation of Compound (M-c), 1-(4-bromo-3-(bromomethyl)phenyl)ethanone
                                     OH                                 Br
                                                             O          Br
                           o         BrH
                           Compound (M-a)                    Compound (M-c)
15         To a stirred solution of 1-(4-bromo-3-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl)ethanone (458 mg, 2
   mmol) in dichloromethane (5 mL) was added triethylamine (0.417 mL, 3 mmol) and the
   mixture was cooled to about 0 'C. Methanesulfonyl chloride (0.107 mL, 2.2 mmol) was
   added to the mixture dropwise and the stirred for about 1 h at about 0 'C. The reaction
   mixture was partitioned between MTBE (25 mL) and water (2x10 mL). The organic layer
20 was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   give the mesylate. To the mesylate was added THF (5 mL) and lithium bromide (695 mg, 8
   mmol) and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for about 2 h. The reaction mixture
   was partitioned between MTBE (25 mL) and water (2x10 mL). The organic layer was dried
   over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give
25 Compound (M-c). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.02 (d, J=2.OHz, 1H), 7.74-7.68 (m, 2H),
   4.63 (s, 2H), 2.60 (s, 3H).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative reagents in lieu of methanesulfonyl chloride may be
   methanesulfonic anhydride. Alternative reagents for bromination may include tosyl
30 chloride/lithium bromide, thionyl bromide, triphenylphosphine/N-bromosuccinimide,
   phosphorous tribromide, triphenylphosphine/carbon tetrabromide, and hydrobromic acid.
                                                  106

   Various solvents may be employed, such as tetrahydrofuran and 2-methyltetrahydrofuran.
   The reaction may take place at temperatures that range from about 0 'C to about 20 'C and at
   time lengths of about 30 minutes to about 3 hours or about 30 minutes to about 1 hour.
 5 Preparation of Compound (L-a), 7-(5-acetyl-2-bromobenzyloxy)-3,4-dihydronaphthalen
   1(2H)-one
                              HO                                   M
                          Br+                                     M
             Compound (M-b)     Compound (N)                           Compound (L-a)
           A mixture of 1-(4-bromo-3-(chloromethyl)phenyl)ethanone (600 mg, 2.42 mmol), 7
   hydroxytetralone (393 mg, 2.42 mmol), potassium carbonate (668 mg, 4.84 mmol) and
10 tetrabutylammonium bromide (78 mg, 0.242 mmol) in DMAc (3 mL) was stirred at room
   temperature for about 20 h. The reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate (18
   mL) and water (2x6 mL). The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and
   concentrated to an approximate volume of 5 mL. Product precipitate was filtered, washed
   with ethyl acetate (2 mL) and dried under vacuum to give Compound (L-a). 1H NMR (400
15 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.14 (d, J=2.4Hz, 1H), 7.7 (dd, J=8.4, 2.4Hz, 1H), 7.70 (d, J=8.4Hz, 1H),
   7.64 (d, J=2.4Hz, 1H), 7.23-7.16 (m, 2H), 5.17 (s, 2H), 2.92 (t, J=6.4Hz, 2H), 2.65 (dd,
   J=13.2, 6.0Hz, 2H), 2.60 (s, 3H), 2.16-2.10 (m, 2H).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, an alternative reagent may be sodium iodide. Various solvents, such as
20 tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, N,N-dimethylformamide, and acetonitrile, may be
   employed. The reaction may take place at a temperature of about 20 'C or at temperatures that
   range from about 20 'C to about 65 'C and may take place at time lenghts of about 6 hours to
   about 20 hours.
25
   Alternative Preparation of Compound (L-a)
                                                107

                          Br    HO         0                                  rO
                          Br + -0     --                          Me    \B
             Compound (M-c)         Compound (N)                       Compound (L-a)
           A mixture of 1-(4-bromo-3-(bromomethyl)phenyl)ethanone (500 mg, 1.71 mmol), 7
   hydroxytetralone (291 mg, 1.79 mmol), potassium carbonate (472 mg, 3.42 mmol) and
   acetonitrile (5 mL) was heated at about 70 'C for about 2 h. The mixture was partitioned
 5 between MTBE (20 mL) and water (2x10 mL). The organic layer was dried over anhydrous
   sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to give crude product.
   Column chromatography of the crude mixture on silica gel using 15-50% ethyl acetate
   hexanes gradient followed by recrystallization from methanol (3.5 mL) gave Compound (L
   a).
10         Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, an alternative reagent may be sodium iodide. Various solvents, such
   as tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N
   dimethylacetamide, and acetonitrile, may be employed. The reaction may take place at
   temperatures that range from about 20 'C to about 70 'C.
15
   Preparation of Compound (K), 3-acetyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one
                                         0                                  0
                  0  -                   0                      0r-0
                 Me               -Me
                       Compound (L-a)                               Compound (K)
           A reaction vessel was charged with 7-(5-acetyl-2-bromobenzyloxy)-3,4
   dihydronaphthalen-1(2H)-one (2.5 g, 6.7 mmol) (Compound (L-a)), palladium (II) acetate
20 (150 mg, 0.67 mmol), triphenylphosphine (175.5 mg, 0.67 mmol), pivalic acid (205 mg, 2.01
   mmol), potassium carbonate (1.02 g, 7.37 mmol) and DMAc (50 mL). The reaction vessel
   was evacuated and back filled with nitrogen. The reaction mixture was then heated at about
   80 'C under nitrogen atmosphere for about 5 h. After completion of the reaction the mixture
   was cooled to room temperature and charged with ethyl acetate (50 mL) followed by water
25 (75 mL). The biphasic mixture was stirred at room temperature for about 20 min and filtered
   through a pad of celite and partitioned. The organic layer was washed with water (25 mL),
   dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to an
                                                 108

   approximate final volume of 10 mL. The product precipitated was collected by filtration,
   washed with ice cold ethyl acetate (5 mL) and dried under vacuum to give Compound (K).
   1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 8.05 (d, J=8.0Hz, 1H), 7.98 (d, J=8.0Hz, 1H), 7.96 (s, 1H),
   7.90 (s, 1H), 7.36 (s, 1H), 5.21 (s, 2H), 2.95 (t, J=5.6Hz, 1H), 2.61-2.56 (m, 3H), 2.59 (s,
 5 3H), 2.05-2.02 (m, 2H).
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative reagents may include tetrabutyl ammonium bromide,
   Pd(dba) 2, P(4-FPh) 3, KHCO 3, and DMF. Various solvents may be used, such as DMF and
   acetonitrile. In addition, the reaction may be performed in the absence of triphenylphosphine.
10 The reaction may also take place at temperatures that range from about 20 'C to about 80 'C
   and at time lengths of about 5 hours to about 7 hours.
   Prepartion of Compound (I-a)
                                    0                                        00
              MCe                    O                         Br                       Br
                    Compound (K)                                       Compound (I-a)
15          To a stirred solution of Compound (K) (100 mg, 0.342 mmol) in 9:1
   dichloromethane/methanol mixture (2 mL) was added pyridinium tribromide (250 mg, 90%
   technical grade, 0.718 mmol) at room temperature and the mixture was stirred for about 5 h.
   Product precipitated was filtered, washed with methanol (1 mL) and dried under vacuum to
   give Compound (I-a). 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6) 6 8.17-8.01 (m, 3H), 8.01-7.92 (m,
20  1H), 7.43 (s, 1H), 5.24 (s, 2H), 5.05 (dd, J=8.0 and 4.0Hz, 1H), 4.94 (s, 2H), 3.15-3.00(m,
   2H), 2.63-2.55 (m, 1H), 2.41-2.35 (m, 1H).
           Aternative reagents and reaction conditions may also be employed as described in
   Example 7 . Catalytic HBr can be used for the early initiation of bromination reaction.
25
                               Example 9: Synthesis to Compound (I-b)
                                                   109

                          0                                                    0
                                           00                                           0
            Br                        Br                         CI                       Br
                 Compound (I-a)                                         Compound (I-b)
           To a reaction vessel was charged Compound (I-a) (10 g) and a solution of
   tetrahydrofuran and water (10 vol : 1 vol; 500 mL). The reactor contents were agitated and
   sodium chloride (26 g) was added. The internal temperature was adjusted to about 40 'C.
 5 After complete conversion, the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and
   the residue filtered. The filter cake was washed with water (200 mL)and suspended in
   dichloromethane (120 mL) at about 30 'C. After about 12 h, the mixture was cooled to about
   2 'C and filtered. The filter cake was washed with water (300 mL) and dried under reduced
   pressure at about 40 'C to Compound (I-b). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 8.00 (M, 1H),
10 7.86 (m, 1H), 7.80 (s, 1H), 7.72 (s, 1H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 5.20 (s, 2H), 4.74 (m, 1H), 4.70 (s, 2H),
   3.40 - 3.27 (m, 1H), 2.96 (m, 1H), 2.60 - 2.44 (m, 2H).
           Aternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative reagents, in lieu of sodium chloride, may be lithium
   chloride, potassium chloride, cesium chloride, beryllium chloride, magnesium chloride,
15 calcium chloride, and barium chloride. various solvents may be employed. non-limiting
   examples may include dimethylsulfoxide, N,N-dimethylformamide, N-methylpyrolidine, 2
   methyltetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl
   methyl ether, diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone,
   methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform,
20 acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol,
   butanol, tert-butanol, benzene, and nitromethane. The reaction may proceed at temperatures
   ranging from about 0 'C to about 60 'C and for time lengths of about 16 hours or about 30
   minutes to about 48 hours.
25
                                                  110

                       Example 10: Alternative Synthesis to Compound (I-a)
                                                                                             0
                                           0           0
                   0   0
    /     /o                             MC                   O               Br               -    Br
      Compound (0)                           Compound (K)                           Compound (1-a)
 5 Preparation of Compound (K)from Compound (0)
            Conversion of Compound (0) to Compound (K) may be carried out in the presence
   of palladium (such as dichloro[2-(4,5-dihydro-2-oxazolyl)quinoline]palladium(II)) with tert
   butyihydroperoxide as an oxidizing agent, silver tetrafluoroborate as an additive, and a
   mixture of DMF and water as a solvent. The reaction may take place at about 20 0C to about
10 70 0C and for time lengths of about 30 minutes to about 24 hours.
            Alternatively, the conversion of Compound (0) to Compound (K) may be carried
   out in the presence of palladium catalyst (such as bis(acetonitrile)dichloropalladium(II) or
   palladium(II)chloride) with oxygen as an oxidizing agent, and a mixture of DMAc and water
   as a solvent. The reaction may take place at about 20 0 C to about 80 0C and for time lengths
15 of about 30 minutes to about 24 hours.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   contemplated. Alternative palladium catalysts may be palladium(II) trifluoroacetate,
   palladium (II) acetylacetonate, allylpalladium(II) chloride dimer, palladium (II) acetate,
   palladium(II) pivalate, palladium (II) chloride, palladium (II) bromide,
20 tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium, bis(dibenzylideneacetone)palladium,
   bis(acetonitrile)dichloropalladium(II), tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium(0)-chloroform
   adduct, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0),
   dichlorobis(tricyclohexylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II)
   dichloride, dichlorobis(tri-o-tolylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(di-tert-butyl(4
25 dimethylaminophenyl)phosphine)dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene] dichloropalladium(II) complex with dichloromethane, [1,1'
   bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), tetrakis(acetonitrile)palladium(II)
   tetrafluoroborate, copper(I) chloride, copper(II) chloride, copper(I) bromide, copper(II)
30 bromide, copper(I) iodide, copper(II) iodide, copper(I) triflate, copper(II) triflate, copper(I)
                                                   111

   oxide, copper(II) oxide, copper(I) tetrafluoroborate, copper(II) tetrafluoroborate, copper(I)
   hexafluoroantimonate, and copper(II) hexafluoroantimonate.
           Various ligands may be employed, including but not limited to (S)-2-(4,5-dihydro-4
   isopropyl-2-oxazolyl)quinoline, 2-(4,4-dimethyl-4,5-dihydro-2-oxazolyl)quinoline, 1,3-Bis
 5 (2,6-diisopropylphenyl)imidazolinium chloride, 1,3-bis(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)imidazolinium
   chloride, 1,3-diisopropylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate, 1,3-bis(1-adamantyl)imidazolium
   tetrafluoroborate, 1,3-bis(2,6-diisopropylphenyl)imidazolium chloride, sparteine,
   ethylenediamine, tetramethylethylenediamine, and Tr6ger's base.
           Alternative oxidizing agents may include oxygen, hydrogenperoxide, urea hydorgen
10 peroxide, palladium(II) reagents, copper(I) iodide, copper(II) iodide, copper(I) triflate,
   copper(II) triflate, copper(I) oxide, copper(II) oxide, copper(I) tetrafluoroborate, copper(II)
   tetrafluoroborate, copper(I) hexafluoroantimonate, copper(II) hexafluoroantimonate,
   diacetoxy iodobenzene, di(trifluoxoacetoxy) iodobenzene, dichloro iodobenzene, potassium
   persulfate, sodium perborate, sodium bromate, sodium iodate, sodium periodate, urea
15 hydrogen peroxide, tert-butylhydroperoxide, N-methylmorpholine-N-oxide,
   trimethyammonium-N-oxide, sodium dichloroisocyanuric acid, iodosobenzene, N-bromo
   succinimide, N-bromoacetamide, N-bromophthalimide, sodium bromite, sodium
   hypobromite, m-chloroperbenzoic acid, 2-iodoxybenzoic acid, ruthenium trichloride,
   rhodium(I) tris-(triphenylphosphine) chloride, palladium(II) acetate, titanium
20 tetraisopropoxide, ferric bromide, copper(I) chloride, copper(II) chloride, copper(I) bromide,
   copper(II) bromide, tetrapropylammonium perruthenate, N-chloro succinimide, 1,1,1
   triacetoxy-1,1-dihydro-1,2-benziodoxol-3(1H)-one, trimethyl aluminium, aluminum
   triisopropoxide, dimethylsulfoxide, potassium peroxymonosulfate, cericammonium nitrate,
   oxygen, trichloroisicyanuric acid, cromine, iodine, chlorine, bromine, bromine monochloride,
25 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin, pyridinium tribromide, 2,4,4,6-tetrabromo-2,5
   cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric Acid, tribromoisocyanuric Acid, N-bromoisocyanuric
   acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide, N,N'-dibromo-4
   methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium bromate, tetra-n
   butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide, trimethylammonium
30 tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support, 4
   (dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
   bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
   beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite,
   N,N-dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite,
                                                   112

   N-bromo glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5
   dimethylhydantoin, 1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5
   ethyl-5-methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, 3-bromo-5-methyl-5
   phenyl-imidaolidine-2,4-dione, and dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane.
 5          Alternative additives may be employed. Non-limiting examples may be silver nitrate,
   silver hexafluoroantimonate, copper(I) triflate, copper(II) triflate, copper(I) oxide, copper(II)
   oxide, copper(I) tetrafluoroborate, copper(II) tetrafluioroborate, copper(I)
   hexafluoroantimonate, and copper(II) hexafluoroantimonate.
            The reaction can take place in various solvents, such as dimethylsulfoxide,
10 N,N-dimethylformamide, N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone,
   diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene,
   dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol,
15 tert-butanol, benzene, nitromethane, and water.
            The reaction may proceed at temperatures ranging from about 0 0C to 100 0 C and at
   time lengths of about 30 minutes to about 48 hours.
   Preparation of Compound (I-a) from Compound (K)
20          A reaction vessel at ambient temperature was charged with 3-acetyl-10,11-dihydro
   5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (100 mg), 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH (3.4 mL) and pyridinium
   tribromide (246 mg). The solution was heated to about 35 0C. After about 30 minutes, the
   reaction was judged complete. The mixture was cooled to about 23 0 C, diluted with EtOAc
   (50 mL) and sequentially washed with saturated aqueous Na 2 S2 0 3 (20 mL), 2% aqueous
25 NaHCO 3 (20 mL), water (20 mL), and brine (10 mL). The organic phase was dried over
   MgSO 4 , filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 9-bromo-3-(2
   bromoacetyl)- 10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one (Compound (I-a)). 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.03 - 8.01 (m, 1H), 7.85 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.82 (s, 1H), 7.71
   (s, 1H), 7.67 (s, 1H), 5.19 (s, 2H), 4.74 (dd, J= 4.1, 4.1 Hz, 1H), 4.45 (s, 2H), 3.37-3.29 (m,
30  1H), 2.99 - 2.92 (m,1H), 2.59 - 2.46 (m, 2H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative starting material may be 3-(2-bromoacetyl)-10,11
   dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one or 3-acetyl-9-bromo-10,11-dihydro-5H
   dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one.
                                                   113

           Various brominating agents may be used. Non-limiting examples can include
   bromine, bromine monochloride, N-bromosuccinimide, 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin,
   2,4,4,6-tetrabromo-2,5-cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric acid, tribromoisocyanuric
   acid, n-bromoisocyanuric acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide,
 5 N,N'-dibromo-4-methylbenzenesulphonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium
   bromate, tetra-N-butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide,
   trimethylammonium tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support,
   4-(dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
   bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
10 beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite, N,N
   dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite, n-bromo
   glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5-dimethylhydantoin,
    1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5-ethyl-5
   methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, 3-bromo-5-methyl-5-phenyl
15 imidaolidine-2,4-dione, dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane, carbon tetrabromide, bromoform,
   dibromomethane, hexabromoacetone, lithium bromide, sodium bromide, potassium bromide,
   cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium bromide, calcium bromide, aluminum
   bromide, indium bromide, titanium bromide, ferrous bromide, ferric bromide, tin bromide,
   and hydrobromic acid.
20         Various solvents may be employed, such as dimethylsulfoxide, N,N
   dimethylformamide, N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran,
   isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether,
   diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone,
   diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene,
25 dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol,
   benzene, and nitromethane.
           The reaction may proceed at temperatures ranging from about 0 'C to 60 'C and at
   time lengths of about 12 minutes to about 24 hours.
30                    Example 11: Alternative Synthesis to Compound (I-a)
                                                   114

               0                                                0
                  \     0BuO                                             O
    C    '
        Compound (5-3)                                Compound (P-a)
                                                      0                                    0
                                                                                                   0
                               0-0
                             Me                   O                         Br                         Br
                                Compound (K)                                     Compound (1-a)
   Preparation of Compound (P-a) from Compound (5-3)
           To synthesize Compound (P-a) from Compound (5-3), Compound (5-3) can be
 5 reacted in the presence of a catalyst, such as Pd(OAc) 2 , a ligand such as 1,3
   diisopropylphosphinopropane, and a base such as triethylamine. The solvent for the reaction
   may be N,N-dimethylacetamide. The reaction temperature may be from about 20 'C to about
   80 'C, and the reaction time may range from about 20 minutes to about 2 hours. The
   reaction may be conducted in the presence of a stabilizer such as 3,5-di-tert-butyl-4
10 hydroxytoluene.
           Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   contemplated. For example, alternative catalysts may include palladium(II) trifluoroacetate,
   palladium(II) acetylacetonate, allylpalladium(II) chloride dimer, palladium(II) acetate,
   palladium(II) pivalate, palladium(II) chloride, palladium(II) bromide,
15 tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium, bis(dibenzylideneacetone)palladium,
   bis(acetonitrile)dichloropalladium(II), tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium(0)-chloroform
   adduct, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0),
   dichlorobis(tricyclohexylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II)
   dichloride, dichlorobis(tri-o-tolylphosphine)palladium(II), bis(di-tert-butyl(4
20 dimethylaminophenyl)phosphine)dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II), [1,1'
   bis(diphenylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II) complex with dichloromethane, [1,1'
   bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ferrocene]dichloropalladium(II),     tetrakis(acetonitrile)palladium(II)
   tetrafluoroborate, (SPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (XPhos) palladium(II)
25 phenethylamine chloride, (RuPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, (t-BuXPhos)
   palladium(II) phenethylamine chloride, and (BrettPhos) palladium(II) phenethylamine
   chloride.
                                                   115

             Alternative ligands, in lieu of 1,3-diisopropylphosphinopropane, may be any ligands
   known in the art. Non-limiting examples may be triphenylphosphine, tri-(2-furyl)phosphine,
   Tri-tert-butylphosphine, tri-tert-butylphosphine hydro tetrafluoroborate, methyl-di-tert
   butylphosphine, methyl-di-tert-butylphosphine hydro tetrafluoroborate, 4,5
 5 bis(diphenylphosphino)-9,9-dimethylxanthene, tri(p-tolyl)phosphine, 4
   (methoxy)phenyldiphenylphosphine, 4-(dimethylamino)phenyldiphenylphosphine, tri(4
   fluorophenyl)phosphine, tri(4-trifluoromethylphenyl)phosphine, tri(4
   methoxyphenyl)phosphine, tri(3-methylphenyl)phosphine, tri(2-methylphenyl)phosphine,
   tri(cyclohexyl)phosphine, tri(2-furanyl)phosphine, 1,1'- bis(diphenylphosphino) ferrocene,
10  1,1'- bis(dicyclohexylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,1'- bis(ditertbutylphosphino) ferrocene, 1,3-bis
   (2,6-diisopropylphenyl)imidazolinium chloride, 1,3-bis(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)imidazolinium
   chloride, 1,3-diisopropylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate, 1,3-bis(1-adamantyl)imidazolium
   tetrafluoroborate, 2-(dicyclohexylphosphino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-(N,N
   dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl, 2
15 dicyclohexylphosphino-2'-methylbiphenyl, 2-dicyclohexylphosphino-2',6'
   diisopropoxybiphenyl, 2-(dicyclohexylphosphino)3,6-dimethoxy-2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'
   biphenyl, sodium 2'-dicyclohexylphosphino-2,6-dimethoxy-1,1'-biphenyl-3-sulfonate
   hydrate, 2-diphenylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino
   2',4',6'-triisopropylbiphenyl, (2-biphenyl)di-tert-butylphosphine, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino
20 3,4,5,6-tetramethyl-2',4',6'-triisopropyl- 1,1 '-biphenyl, 2-di-tert-butylphosphino-2'
   methylbiphenyl, 2-(di-tert-butylphosphino)-2',4',6'- triisopropyl-3,6-dimethoxy- 1,1 '-biphenyl,
   2-di-tert-butylphosphino-2'-(N,N-dimethylamino)biphenyl, 2-{bis[3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]phosphino}-3,6-dimethoxy -2',4',6'-triisopropyl-1,1'-biphenyl,
   bis(diphenylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(diphenylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
25 bis(diphenylphosphino)propane, 1,4-bis(diphenylphosphino)butane, 1,5
   bis(diphenylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(diphenylphosphino)hexane,
   bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
   bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5
   bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)hexane,
30 bis(diisopropylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(diisopropylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
   bis(diisopropylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5
   bis(diisopropylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(diisopropylphosphino)hexane, bis(di-tert
   butylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)ethane, 1,3-bis(di-tert
   butylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5-bis(di-tert
                                                     116

   butylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(di-tert-butylphosphino)hexane,
   bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)methane, 1,2-bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)ethane, 1,3
   bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)propane, 1,3-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)propane, 1,5
   bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)pentane, 1,6-bis(dicyclopentylphosphino)hexane, and the like.
 5          Alternative alkenes may be 1-(vinyloxy)methane, 1-(vinyloxy)ethane, 1
   (vinyloxy)propane, 1-(vinyloxy)-2-propane, tert-butyl vinyl ether, ethylene glycol vinyl ether,
   isobutyl vinyl ether, vinyl acetate, tri(ethylene glycol) divinyl ether, 1,4-butanediol vinyl
   ether, di(ethylene glycol) vinyl ether, di(ethylene glycol) divinyl ether, isooctyl vinyl ether, 2
   ethylhexyl vinyl ether, N,N-dimethyl-2-(vinyloxy)ethanamine, vinyl propionate, vinyl
10 pivalate, cyclohexyl vinyl ether, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl vinyl ether, vinyl butyrate, and vinyl
   trifluoroacetate.
            Various bases may be employed. Non-limiting examples may include lithium
   carbonate, sodium carbonate, cesium carbonate, beryllium carbonate, magnesium carbonate,
   calcium carbonate, strontium carbonate, barium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium
15 hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, cesium hydroxide, beryllium hydroxide, magnesium
   hydroxide, Calcium hydroxide, strontium hydroxide, barium hydroxide, lithium bicarbonate,
   sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, cesium bicarbonate, beryllium bicarbonate,
   magnesium bicarbonate, calcium bicarbonate, strontium bicarbonate, barium bicarbonate,
   lithium hydride, sodium hydride, potassium hydride, magnesium hydride, calcium hydride,
20 lithium tert-butoxide, sodium tert-butoxide, potassium tert-butoxide, cesium tert-butoxide,
   beryllium tert-butoxide, magnesium tert-butoxide, calcium tert-butoxide, strontium tert
   butoxide, barium tert-butoxide, aluminum tert-butoxide, titanium tert-butoxide, 2,2,6,6
   tetramethylpiperidine, 2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, 4-methyl-2,6-ditertbutylpyridine, trilithium
   phosphate, trisodium phosphate, tripotassium phosphate, tricesium phosphate, beryllium
25 phosphate, magnesium phosphate, calcium phosphate, strontium phosphate, dilithium
   hydrogenphosphate, disodium hydorgenphosphate, dipotassium hydrogenphosphate,
   dicesium hydrogenphosphate, lithium dihydrogenphosphate, sodium dihydrogenphosphate,
   potassium dihydrogenphosphate, cesium dihydrogenphosphate, lithium tert-butylcarboxylate,
   sodium tert-butylcarboxylate, potassium tert-butylcarboxylate, cesium tert-butylcarboxylate,
30 lithium acetate, sodium acetate, potassium acetate, cesium acetate, lithium propanoate,
   sodium propanoate, potassium propanoate, cesium propanoate, lithium isobutyrate, sodium
   isobutyrate, potassium isobutyrate, cesium isobutyrate, lithium adamantylcarboxylate,
   sodium adamantylcarboxylate, potassium adamantylcarboxylate, cesium
   adamantylcarboxylate, lithium trifluoroaceate, sodium trifluoroaceate, potassium
                                                    117

   trifluoroaceate, cesium trifluoroaceate, triethylamine, trimethylamine, tripropylamine,
   tributylamine, diisopropylethylamine, dicyclohexylmethylamine, lithium methoxide, lithium
   ethoxide, lithium isopropoxide, lithium propoxide, lithium butoxide, lithium phenoxide,
   sodium methoxide, sodium ethoxide, sodium isopropoxide, sodium butoxide, sodium
 5 phenoxide, potassium methoxide, potassium ethoxide, potassium isopropoxide, potassium
   propoxide, potassium butoxide, potassium phenoxide, cesium methoxide, cesium ethoxide,
   cesium isopropoxide, cesium propoxide, cesium butoxide, and cesium phenoxide.
            Various solvents may be employed, such as N,N-dimethylformamide, N
   methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate,
10 tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, diisopropylether, acetone,
   methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2
   dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane,
   dimethylsulfoxide, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene,
   and nitromethane.
15          The reaction temperature may range from about 20 'C to about 100 'C, and the
   reaction time may range from about 30 minutes to about 48 hours.
   Preparation of Compound (K)from Compound (P-a)
            To synthesize Compound (K) from Compound (P-a), Compound (P-a) may be
20 reacted with trifluoroacetic acid in a solvent of a mixture of dichloromethane and water. The
   reaction may take place at about 5 'C to about 40 'C, and the reaction time may range from
   about 30 minutes to about 12 hours.
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative acids may be employed. Non-limiting examples may
25 include formic acid, acetic acid, propanoic acid, butanoic acid, pivalic acid, pentanoic acid,
   benzoic acid, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, hydrofluoric acid,
   sulfuric acid, sulfurous acid, phosphoric acid, cirtric acid, nitric acid, oxalic acid, and the like.
   various solvents may be employed, including but not limited to N,N-dimethylformamide,
   N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl
30 acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, diisopropylether,
   acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2
   dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane
   dimethylsulfoxide, methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene,
   nitromethane, and water.
                                                   118

           The reaction temperature may range from about 0 IC to about 100 'C, and the
   reaction time may range from about 30 minutes to about 48 hours.
   Preparation of Compound (I-a) from Compound (K)
 5         Compound (I-a) may be synthesized from Compound (K) as described in Examples
   7 and 8.
                      Example 12: Alternative Synthesis to Compound (I-a)
                                        00
                 BuO    /      /\     0/\                                  \
                                                          Br                      Br
                      Compound (P-a)                             Compound (I-a)
10 Preparation of Compound (I-a) from Compound (P-a)
           Compound (I-a) may be synthesized from Compound (P-a) in the presence of a
   brominating agent, such as pyridinium tribromide, and in a solvent, such as a mixture of
   dichloromethane and methanol. The reaction may take place from about 0 0C to about 40 0C,
   and the reaction time may be from about 20 minutes to about 2 hours.
15         Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative starting material may be Compound (6) or 3-acetyl-9
   bromo-10,11 -dihydro-5H-dibenzo[c,g]chromen-8(9H)-one.
           Various brominating agents may be employed. Non-limiting examples can include
   bromine, bromine monochloride, N-bromosuccinimide, 5,5-dimethyl-1,3-dibromohydantoin,
20 2,4,4,6-tetrabromo-2,5-cyclohexadienone, dibromoisocyanuric acid, tribromoisocyanuric
   acid, N-bromoisocyanuric acid monosodium salt, N-bromo phthalimide, N-bromo acetamide,
   N,N-dibromo-4-methylbenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromate, lithium bromate, potassium
   bromate, tetra-n-butylammonium tribromide, trimethylphenylammonium tribromide,
   trimethylammonium tribromide, triethylammonium tribromide, bromine on polymer support,
25 4-(dimethylamino)pyridine tribromide, pyridinium tribromide polymer bound,
   bromotrichloromethane, sodium hypobromite, lithium hypobromite, potassium hypobromite,
   beryllium hypobromite, magnesium hypobromite, calcium hypobromite,
   N,N-dibromobenzenesulfonamide, sodium bromite, lithium bromite, potassium bromite,
   N-bromo glutarimide, 1,3-dibromo-2,4-imidazolidinedione, 3-bromo-1-chloro-5,5
30 dimethylhydantoin, 1-bromo-5-ethyl-3,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidaolidinedione, 1,3-dibromo-5
                                                 119

   ethyl-5-methylhydantoin, 1,3,-dibromo-5-isopropyl-5-methylhydantoin, 3-bromo-5-methyl-5
   phenyl-imidaolidine-2,4-dione, dibromo(triphenyl)phosphorane, carbon tetrabromide,
   bromoform, dibromomethane, hexabromoacetone, lithium bromide, sodium bromide,
   potassium bromide, cesium bromide, beryllium bromide, magnesium bromide, calcium
 5 bromide, aluminum bromide, indium bromide, titanium bromide, ferrous bromide, ferric
   bromide, tin bromide, and hydrobromic acid.
           Alternative solvents may be dimethylsulfoxide, N,N-dimethylformamide,
   N-methylpyrolidine, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl acetate, ethyl
   acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, diethylether, diisopropylether,
10 acetone, methylethyl ketone, methylisobutylketone, diisopropyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2
   dimethoxyethane, chloroform, acetonitrile, toluene, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane,
   ethanol, n-propanol, 2-propanol, butanol, tert-butanol, benzene, and nitromethane.
           The reaction temperature may range from about 0 'C to about 60 'C, and the reaction
   time may range from about 12 minutes to about 24 hours.
15
                                                  120

                              Example 13: Synthesis of Compound (A)
                                            Boc
                                                      OH
                                      H3C0                                   Boc              /\    /\       0
                                     Co     pound (J-a)                      Bo         O                       Br
           X,Y = Br                     K2 CO 3 , DCM
       Compound (I-a)                                                  - H3CO         Compound (G-a)
                           HO      N
                                    HNO
                                        OCH,                  Boc       0
                            Compound (H)                          N       O                        O
                              Cs2CO3, THIFOO
                                                         H3 CO'                   Compound (B-a)            HN
                                                                                                                OCH _
                                                                                                                   3
                      NH40Ac, Toluene, IPA                      Boc              /                   '
                                                                                                         HN   0
                                                           H3 CO                 Compound (C-a)             OCH 3
                            DQ- AcOH                            Boc                                    O
                           MeTHE                                            N
                                                                                                         HN    0
                                                           H3 CO-                Compound (D-a)             OCH 3
                           1) MeOH-HCI                                                   O       H
                          2) NaOMe-MeOH                             HN                                  N
                          3) H3 PO4                                 N
                                                                            H
                                                                            N
                                                                                    3 H3PO4
                                                                                                     O;
                                                                                                         HN   0
                                                           H3 CO                   Compound (E-a)           OCH 3
                               H   O
                      H3CO     N     OH
                            0                              H3CO
                                      I                       0 >NH                         0
                                                                              N       /-            N-.N
                         Compound (F)
                        1) DCM /KHCO 3 (aq)                             0HN                                        0
                        2) CMT/NMM/MeOH                         H3CO               Compound (A)                  OCH 3
5
  1" alkylation: Conversion of Compound (I-a) to Compound (G-a)
                                                       121

                                            Boc    0
                                                  H3 OH
                      0                   ,OBock                            0~
                                        Compound (J-a)                Bo
             Com
               u Br                                               H3CO        Compound (G-a)
        Compound (I-a)
           Compound (I-a) (45g, 1.0 equiv.), Compound (J-a) (26.7g, 1.03 equiv.) and
   potassium carbonate (20.7g, 1.5 equiv.) in dichloromethane (450 mL) were stirred at about 20
 5 'C for approximately 3-4 hours. After the completion of the reaction, water (450 mL) was
   charged into the reactor and the mixture was stirred. Layers were separated, and the aqueous
   layer was extracted with dichloromethane (200 mL). The combined organic layers were
   washed with 2 wt% NaH2PO4/10wt% NaCl solution (450 mL). The organic layer was then
   concentrated and the solvent was swapped from dichloromethane into tetrahydrofuran. A
10 purified sample of Compound (G-a) has the following spectrum: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl 3) 6 7.90-7.94 (m, 1H), 7.81-7.85 (m, 1H), 7.72 (s, 1H), 7.69 (s, 1H), 7.66 (s, 1H), 5.19
   5.56 (2dd, 2H), 5.17 (s, 2H), 4.73 (t, 1H), 4.39-4.48 (m, 1H), 3.70-3.77 (m, 1H), 3.37-3.45
   (m, 2H), 3.33-3.35 (d, 3H), 3.28-3.32 (m, 1H), 3.20-3.25 (dd, 1H), 2.92-2.96 (dt, 1H), 2.44
   2.59 (m, 4H), 1.97-2.09 (m, 1H), 1.44 (d, 9H).
15         Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative starting material may be Compound (I) where X may be
   -Cl, -Br, -OTs, -OSO 2 Ph, -OSO 2 Me, -OSO 2 CF 3 , -OSO 2 R, , and -OP(O)(OR) 2 and Y may be
   Cl, -Br, -OTs, -OSO 2Ph, -OSO 2 Me, -OSO 2 CF 3 , -OSO 2 R, and -OP(O)(OR) 2. R may be alkyl,
   haloalkyl, or an optionally substituted aryl.
20         Various bases may also be employed, such as phosphate salts (including but not
   limited to KH 2PO 4, K 3PO 4, Na 2HPO 4, and Na 3PO 4) and carbonate salts (including but not
   limited to Na2 CO 3 ,Cs2 CO 3 , and NaHCO 3 ). Where the starting material is Compound (J),
   KHCO 3 or preformed potassium, sodium, and cesium salts of Compound (J) may also be
   used.
25         Alternative solvents can include 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, tetrahydrofuran, isopropyl
   acetate, ethyl acetate, tert-butyl methyl ether, cyclopentyl methyl ether, dimethylformamide,
   acetone, MEK, and MIBK.
           The reaction temperature may range from about 10 'C to about 60 'C.
                                                    122

   2"d alkylation: Conversion of Compound (G-a) to Compound (B-a):
                                            HO     '    '
                                0                    ~HN,,0
                 ooc       0                            OCH 3         Boc J
         B                                  Compound (H)                B    J
   H3 CO      Compound (G-a)                                     H3 CO            Compound (B-a)       HN   0
                                                                                                          OCH 3
            A solution of Compound (G-a) (prepared as described earlier starting from 45 g of
 5 Compound (I-a)) was mixed with Compound (H) (42.9g, 1.5 equiv.), and cesium carbonate
   (26. 1g, 0.8 equiv.). The reaction mixture was stirred at about 40-45 0 C until reaction was
   complete and then cooled to about 20 0 C. Water (450 mL) and ethyl acetate (225 mL) were
   added and the mixture was agitated. Layers were separated, and the aqueous layer was
   extracted with ethyl acetate (150 mL). Combined organic phase was concentrated and
10 solvent was swapped to toluene. A purified sample of Compound (B-a) has the following
   spectrum:    1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 67.90-7.93 (m, 1H), 7.81-7.83 (m, 1H), 7.73 (s, 1H),
   7.63-7.64 (d, 1H), 7.59-7.60 (d, 1H), 5.52-5.63 (m, 1H), 5.30-5.43 (q, 1H), 5.13-5.23 (s+m,
   3H), 4.56-4.64 (m, 2H), 4.39-4.48 (m, 1H), 4.20-4.27 (m, 1H), 3.62-3.79 (m, 2H), 3.66 (s,
   2H), 3.36-3.45 (m, 2H), 3.34-3.35 (d, 3H), 3.07-3.25 (m, 3H), 2.59-2.37 (m, 5H), 1.97-2.16
15 (m, 3H), 1.60 (s, 3H), 1.38-1.45 (m, 12H), 0.91-1.03 (m, 6H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative starting material may include Compound (G) where Y
   may be -Cl, -Br, -OTs, -OSO 2 Ph, -OSO 2 Me, -OSO 2 CF 3 , -OSO 2 R, , or -OP(O)(OR) 2. where
   R is alkyl, aryl, or substituted aryl. In some embodiments, the substituted aryl may be an aryl
20 having one or more substituents, such as alkyl, alkoxy, hydroxyl, nitro, halogen, and others as
   discussed above.
            Various bases may be employed. Non-limiting examples can include phosphate salts
   (including but not limited to KH 2 PO 4 , K 3 PO 4 , Na 2HPO 4, and Na 3 PO 4 ) and carbonate salts
   (including but not limited to K 2 CO 3 or Na 2 CO 3 ). If Compound (H) is used as the starting
25 material, Li 2 CO 3 or preformed potassium, sodium, and cesium salt of Compound (H) may be
   employed.
            Alternative solvents may include 2-methyltetrahydrofuran, dichloromethane, toluene,
   mixtures of THF/Toluene, isopropyl acetate, ethyl acetate, 1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone,
   N,N-dimethylacetamide, acetone, MEK,and MIBK. An alternative additive may be
                                                      123

   potassium iodide, and the reaction temperature may range from about 40 'C to about 60 0C or
   about 40 0C to about 50 0 C.
   Cyclization: Conversion of Compound (B-a) to Compound (C-a)
              Boc      O 0-Boc                                                                     H   O
                  N.,K                     0                               ,N               -J-'     N
                                       Z     0 O)--"                                                     HN   0e
          H3CO              Compound (B-a)       HN    O            H3 CO'          Compound (C-a)          OCH 3
 5                                                   OCH 3
            A toluene solution of Compound (B-a) (604 g solution from 45 g of Compound (I
   a)) was charged to a reaction vessel containing ammonium acetate (185.2 g) and isopropanol
   (91.0 g). The contents of the reactor were agitated at about 90 0 C until the reaction was
10 complete (about 16 to 24 hours). The reaction mixture was cooled to about 45 0C, and then
   allowed to settle for layer separation. Water (226 g) was added to the organic phase, and the
   resulting mixture was separated at about 30 0C. Methanol (274 g), Celite (26.9 g) and an
   aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide (67.5 g, 50%) and sodium chloride (54.0 g) in water
   (608 g) were added to the organic phase, and the resulting mixture was agitated for a
15 minimum of 30 minutes. The mixture was then filtered through Celite and rinsed forward
   with a mixture of toluene (250 g) and isopropanol (11 g). The biphasic filtrate was separated
   and water (223 g) was added to the organic phase, and the resulting mixture was agitated at
   about 30 0C for at least 15 minutes. The mixture was filtered through Celite and rinsed
   forward with toluene (91 g). The organic layer was concentrated by vacuum distillation to
20 355 g and was added over 30 minutes to another reactor containing n-heptane (578 g). The
   resulting slurry is filtered, with the wetcake was washed with n-heptane (450 mL) and dried
   in a vacuum oven to afford Compound (C-a). A purified sample of Compound (C-a) has
   the following spectrum:     1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )    6 12.27-11.60 (m, 1 H), 11.18-10.69
   (m, 1 H), 7.83 - 7.44 (m, 4 H), 7.36 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1 H), 7.28 - 7.05 (m, 1 H), 5.65 - 5.25 (m,
25  1H), 5.25 - 4.83 (m, 4 H), 4.34 - 4.03 (m, 2 H), 3.93 - 3.63 (m, 4 H), 3.52 (s, 1 H), 3.35 (d, J
   = 2.4 Hz, 4 H), 3.19 - 2.94 (m, 4 H), 2.88 (dd, J = 12.0, 7.9 Hz, 3 H), 2.66 - 1.85 (m, 5 H),
    1.79 (s, 5 H), 1.37 - 1.12 (m, 6H), 1.04-0.98 (m, 6 H), 0.82 (t, J =   7.7 Hz, 2 H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative reagents, in lieu of ammonium acetate, can include
30 hexamethyldisilazane, ammonia, ammonium formate, ammonium propionate, ammonium
   hexanoate, and ammonium octanoate. Various solvents, such as toluene, xylene, an alcohol
                                                    124

   (including but not limited to isopropanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2
   methoxyethanol, and glycols, such as ethylene glycol and propylene glycol) may be
   employed. Alternative catalyst/additives may include magnesium stearate, acetic acid,
   propionic acid, and acetic anhydride. The reaction temperature may range from about 60 'C
 5 to about 110 'C or about 85 'C to about 95 0C.
   Dehydrogenation: Conversion of Compound (C-a) to Compound (D-a):
              Bo                            O                         Bc     N                      O
                                               HN   O                                                 HN   O
          H3CO-          Compound (C-a)           OCH 3           H3CO             Compound (D-a)        OCH 3
10 Preparation of Compound (D-a) using DDQ as oxidant:
            A solution of Compound (C-a) (255.84 g) in 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (1535 mL) was
   cooled to about 0 0C and acetic acid (0.92 mL) was added. To this mixture was added a solution
   of DDQ (76.98 g) in 2-methyltetrahydrofuran (385 mL) over about 30 minutes. Upon reaction
   completion, a 10 wt% aqueous potassium hydroxide solution (1275 mL) was added over about
15 30 minutes and the mixture was warmed to about 20 0C. Celite (101.5 g) was added and the
   slurry was filtered through Celite (50.0 g) and the filter cake was rinsed with 2
   methyltetrahydrofuran (765 mL). The phases of the filtrate were separated. The organic phase
   was washed successively aqueous potassium hydroxide solution (1020 mL, 10 wt%), aqueous
   sodium bisulfite solution (1020 mL, 10 wt%), aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution (1020 mL, 5
20 wt%) and aqueous sodium chloride solution (1020 mL, 5 wt%). The organic phase was then
   concentrated to a volume of about 650 mL. Cyclopentyl methyl ether (1530 mL) was added and
   the resulting solution was concentrated to a volume of about 710 mL. The temperature was
   adjusted to about 40 0C and Compound (D-a) seed (1.0 g) was added. The mixture was agitated
   until a slurry forms, then methyl tert-butyl ether (2300 mL) was added over about 3 hours. The
25 slurry was cooled to about 20 0C over about 2 hours and filtered. The filter cake was rinsed with
   methyl tert-butyl ether (1275 mL) and dried in a vacuum oven at about 40 0 C to provide
   Compound (D-a). A purified sample of Compound (D-a) has the following spectrum: 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 13.05-10.50 (comp m, 2H), 8.65-6.95 (comp m, 8H), 5.50-5.35 (m,
   2H), 5.25-4.60 (comp m, 3H), 4.35-4.20 (m, 1H), 4.00-3.65 (comp m, 4H), 3.60-3.45 (m, 1H),
30 3.45-3.25 (comp m, 4H), 3.25-3.00 (comp m, 2H), 2.95-1.65 (comp m, 6H), 1.47 (br s, 9H),
    1.40-1.25 (comp m, 2H), 1.20-0.70 (comp m, 9H).
                                                   125

   Alternative Preparation of Compound (D-a) using MnO 2 as oxidant:
            A mixture of Compound (C-a) (50.0 g), manganese (IV) oxide (152.8 g) and
   dichloromethane (500 mL) is stirred at about 20 'C. Upon completion of the reaction, Celite
   (15 g) was added. The resulting slurry was filtered through Celite (20 g) and the filter cake
 5 was rinsed with dichloromethane (500 mL). The filtrate was concentrated and solvent
   exchanged into cyclopentyl methyl ether (250 mL). The resulting solution was warmed to
   about 60 'C and treated with an aqueous potassium hydroxide solution (250 mL, 1Owt%).
   The biphasic mixture is stirred at about 45 'C for about 12 hours. The phases are then
   separated and the organic phase is concentrated to a volume of about 150 mL. The
10 concentrate is filtered, seeded with Compound (D-a) seed and agitated at about 40 OC to
   obtain a slurry. Methyl tert-butyl ether (450 mL) was added to the slurry over 30 minutes and
   the resulting mixture was cooled to about 20 0C. The precipitated solid was filtered, rinsed
   with methyl tert-butyl ether (250 mL) and dried in a vacuum oven at about 40 0C to obtain
   Compound (D-a).
15
   Alternative Preparation of Compound (D-a) through catalytic dehydrogenation
            A mixture of Compound (C-a) (2.5 g, 2.7 mmol, 1 equiv), 5% Pd/A12 0 3 (2.5 g) and
    1-propanol (25 mL, degassed) was stirred at reflux under inert environment for about 5.5
   hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to ambient temperature and filtered through
20 Celite, and the residue rinsed with 1-propanol (2 x 5 mL) to obtain a solution of Compound
   (D-a).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, in a reaction scheme employing stoichiometric oxidants, alternative
   oxidants may include manganese(IV) oxide, copper(II) acetate, copper(II) trifluoroacetate,
25 copper(II) chloride, copper(II) bromide, bromine (Br 2), iodine  (12), N-chlorosuccinimide, N
   bromosuccinimide, N-iodosuccinimide, 1,4-benzoquinone, tetrachloro- 1,4-benzoquinone
   (chloranil), ceric ammonium nitrate, hydrogen peroxide, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, di-tert
   butyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide, oxygen      (02), sodium hypochlorite, sodium hypobromite,
   tert-butyl hypochlorite, Oxone, diacetoxyiodobenzene, and bis(trifluoroacetoxy)iodobenzene.
30 Various additives may be employed, and non-limiting examples may be carbonate bases (e.g.,
   potassium carbonate, potassium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, and the
   like), amines (e.g., triethylamine, diisopropylethylamine and the like), and acids (e.g.,
   trifluoroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, benzoic acid, hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid,
   phosphoric acid, para-toluenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid), sodium acetate, potassium
                                                    126

   acetate, and the like). The reaction temperature may range from about -10 C to 80 'C. The
   reaction may take place in solvents, such as halogenated solvents (e.g., dichloromethane, 1,2
   dichloroethane, etc.), aromatic solvents (e.g., toluene, xylenes, etc.), ethereal solvents
   (tetrahydrofuran, 1,4-dioxane, cyclopentyl methyl ether, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, diglyme,
 5 triglyme, etc.), alcoholic solvents (e.g., methanol, ethanol, n-propanol, isopropanol, n
   butanol, tert-butanol, tert-amyl alcohol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, etc.), ester
   solvents (e.g., ethyl acetate, isopropyl acetate, tert-butyl acetate, etc.), ketone solvents (e.g.,
   acetone, 2-butanone, 4-methyl-2-pentanone, etc.), polar aprotic solvents (e.g., acetonitrile,
   N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, pyridine,
10 dimethyl sulfoxide, etc.), amine solvents (e.g., triethylamine, morpholine, etc.), acetic acid,
   and water.
            In reaction schemes employing catalytic oxidants, alternative catalysts may include
   palladium catalysts (e.g., palladium(II) acetate, palladium(II) trifluoroacetate, palladium(II)
   chloride, palladium(II) bromide, palladium(II) iodide, palladium(II) benzoate, palladium(II)
15 sulfate, tetrakis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(0), tris(dibenzylideneacetone)dipalladium(0),
   bis(tri-tert-butylphosphine)palladium(0), bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II) chloride,
   bis(acetonitrile)palladium(II) chloride, bis(benzonitrile)palladium(II) chloride, palladium on
   carbon, palladium on alumina, palladium on hydroxyapatite, palladium on calcium carbonate,
   palladium on barium sulfate, palladium(II) hydroxide on carbon), platinum catalysts (e.g.,
20 platinum on carbon, platinum(IV) oxide, chloroplatinic acid, potassium chloroplatinate),
   rhodium catalysts (e.g., rhodium on carbon, rhodium on alumina,
   bis(styrene)bis(triphenylphosphine)rhodium(0)), ruthenium catalysts (e.g., ruthenium(II)
   salen, dichloro(para-cymene)ruthenium(II) dimer), iridium catalysts (e.g., iridium(III)
   chloride, (1,5-cyclooctadiene)diiridium(I) dichloride, bis(1,5-cyclooctadiene)iridium(I)
25 tetrafluoroborate, bis(triphenylphosphine)(1,5-cyclooctadiene)iridium(I) carbonyl chloride,
   bis(triphenylphosphine)(1,5-cyclooctadiene)iridium(I) tetrafluoroborate), copper catalysts
   (e.g., copper(I) chloride, copper(II) chloride, copper(I) bromide, copper(II) bromide,
   copper(I) iodide, copper(II) iodide, copper(II) acetate, copper(II) trifluoroacetate, copper(I)
   trifluoromethanesulfonate, copper(II) trifluoromethanesulfonate, copper(II) sulfate), iron
30 catalysts (e.g., iron(II) sulfate, iron(II) chloride, iron(III) chloride), vanadium catalysts (e.g.,
   dichloro(ethoxy)oxovanadium, dichloro(isopropoxy)oxovanadium), manganese catalysts
   (e.g., manganese(IV) oxide, manganese(III) (salen) chloride), cobalt catalysts (e.g., cobalt(II)
   acetate, cobalt(II) chloride, cobalt(II) salen), indium(III) chloride, silver(I) oxide, sodium
                                                      127

   tungstate, quinone catalysts (e.g., 2,3-dichloro-5,6-dicyano-1,4-benzoquinone, 1,4
   benzoquinone, and tetrachloro-1,4-benzoquinone (chloranil)).
            Alternative co-oxidants can include, but are not limited to, sodium nitrite, copper(II)
   acetate, sodium persulfate, potassium persulfate, ammonium persulfate, sodium perborate,
 5 nitrobenzenesulfonate, 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl (TEMPO), pyridine-N-oxide,
   hydrogen peroxide, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, di-tert-butyl peroxide, benzoyl peroxide,
   oxygen (02), sodium hypochlorite, sodium hypobromite, tert-butyl hypochlorite, oxone,
   diacetoxyiodobenzene, and bis(trifluoroacetoxy)iodobenzene.
            Varoius hydrogen acceptors may be employed. Non-limiting examples can include
10 unsaturated hydrocarbons (e.g., tert-butylethylene, tert-butyl acetylene, 2-hexyne,
   cyclohexene, and the like), acrylate esters (e.g., methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, isopropyl
   acrylate, tert-butyl acrylate, and the like), maleate esters (e.g., dimethyl maleate, diethyl
   maleate, diisopropyl maleate, dibutyl maleate, and the like), fumarate esters (e.g., dimethyl
   fumarate, diethyl fumarate, diisopropyl fumarate, dibutyl fumarate, and the like), and
15 quinones (e.g. chloranil, 1,4-benzoquinone, etc.).
            Alternative additives may be employed, such as carbonate bases (e.g., potassium
   carbonate, potassium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, etc.), amine bases
   (e.g., triethylamine, diisopropylethylamine, etc.), phosphines (e.g., triphenylphosphine,
   tri(ortho-tolyl)phosphine, tricyclohexylphosphine, tri-n-butylphosphine, tri-tert
20 butylphosphine, etc.), acids (e.g., trifluoroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, benzoic acid,
   hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, para-toluenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic
   acid, etc.), sodium acetate, N-hydroxyphthalimide, salen, 2,2'-bipyridine, 9,10
   phenanthroline, and quinine.
             The reaction can proceed at temperatures ranging from about 10 'C to about 120 'C.
25 Various solvents can be employed, including but not limited to halogenated solvents (e.g.,
   dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, and the like), aromatic solvents (e.g., toluene, xylenes,
   and the like), ethereal solvents (tetrahydrofuran, 1,4-dioxane, cyclopentyl methyl ether, 1,2
   dimethoxyethane, diglyme, triglyme, and the like), alcoholic solvents (e.g., methanol,
   ethanol, n-propanol, isopropanol, n-butanol, tert-butanol, tert-amyl alcohol, ethylene glycol,
30 propylene glyco, and the like), ester solvents (e.g., ethyl acetate, isopropyl acetate, tert-butyl
   acetate, and the like), ketone solvents (e.g., acetone, 2-butanone, 4-methyl-2-pentanone, and
   the like), polar aprotic solvents (e.g., acetonitrile, N,N-dimethylformamide, N,N
   dimethylacetamide, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone, pyridine, dimethyl sulfoxide, and the like),
   amine solvents (e.g., triethylamine, morpholine, and the like), acetic acid, and water.
                                                    128

   Deprotection: Conversion of Compound (D-a) to Compound (E-a):
            Bo                     H(                                             0       H
        Boc    N                       o-"
                                      NO                -            NN             / \       C)   I...
                                         HN   O                               3 H3PO4            HN    O
    H3CO-            Compound (-a)          OCH 3            H3CO           Compound (E-a)           OCH 3
 5          Acetyl chloride (135 mL, 5 equiv.) was added slowly to methanol (750 mL) under
   external cooling maintaining reaction temperature below 30 'C. The resulting methanolic
   hydrogen chloride solution was cooled to about 20 'C, and added slowly over about 1 hour to
   a solution of Compound (D-a) (300 g, 1 equiv.) in methanol (750 mL) held at about 60 'C,
   and rinsed forward with methanol (300 mL). The reaction mixture was agitated at about
10 60 'C until reaction was complete (about 1 hour), and then cooled to about 5 'C. The
   reaction mixture was adjusted to pH 7-8 by addition of sodium methoxide (25 wt. % solution
   in methanol, 370 mL) over about 20 minutes while maintaining reaction temperature below
   about 20 'C. Phosphoric acid (85 wt. %, 26 mL, 1 equiv.) and Celite (120 g) were added to
   the reaction mixture, which was then adjusted to about 20 'C, filtered, and the filter cake was
15 rinsed with methanol (1050 mL). The combined filtrate was polish filtered and treated with
   phosphoric acid (85 wt. %, 104 mL, 4 equiv.). The mixture was was adjusted to about 60 'C,
   seeded with Compound (E-a) seed crystals (1.5 g), aged at about 60 'C for 4 hours and
   cooled slowly to about 20 'C over about 7.5 hours. The precipitated product was filtered,
   washed with methanol (2 x 600 mL), and dried in a vacuum oven at about 45 'C to provide
20 Compound (E-a). 'H NMR (400 MHz, D2 0) 6 7.53-6.77 (comp m, 8H), 5.24-4.80 (comp
   m, 3H), 4.59-4.38 (comp m, 2H), 4.15-3.90 (m, 1H), 3.65-3.38 (comp m, 5H), 3.36-3.14
   (comp m, 4H), 2.75 (s, 1H), 2.87-2.66 (m, 1H), 2.29-1.60 (comp m, 6H), 1.27 (d, 3H), 0.76
   (m, 6H).
            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
25 employed. Various deprotection agents are well known to those skilled in the art and include
   those disclosed in T.W. Greene & P.G.M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis (4th
   edition) J. Wiley & Sons, 2007, hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. For
   example, a wide range of acids may be used, including but not limited to phosphoric acid,
   trifluoroacetic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid,
30 benzenesulfonic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, 4-bromobenzenesulfonic acid, thionyl
   chloride,and trimethylsilyl chloride. A wide range of solvents may be employed, including
                                                  129

   but not limited to water, ethanol, acetonitrile, acetone, tetrahydrofuran, 1,4-dioxane, and
   toluene. Deprotection may proceed at temperatures ranging from about 20 'C to about 110
   'C or from about 55 'C to about 65 'C.
           A wide range of bases may be employed as a neutralization reagent. Non-limiting
 5 examples can include sodium phosphate dibasic, potassium phosphate dibasic, potassium
   bicarbonate, lithium hydroxide, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, triethylamine, N, N
   diisopropylethylamine, and 4-methylmorpholine. Various solvents may be used for
   neutralization, such as water, ethanol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, acetone,
   acetonitrile, 2-butanone, 4-methyl-2-pentanone, tetrahydrofuran, 2-methyltetrahydrofuran,
10  1,4-dioxane, ethyl acetate, isopropyl acetate, dichloromethane, and dichloroethane.
   Neutralization may proceed at temperatures ranging from about -20 'C to about 60 'C or
   about 5 'C to about 15 'C.
           Various crystallization reagents can be employed. Non-limiting examples may be
   hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, ethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid,
15 4-bromobenzenesulfonic acid, oxalic acid, and glucuronic acid. Solvents for crystallization
   can include, but is not limited to, water, ethanol, 1-propanol, 2-propanol, and acetonitrile.
   Crystallization may proceed at temperatures ranging from about -20 'C to about 100 'C.
20 Free-Basing of Compound (E-a) to Prepare Compound (E)
                           0\      H                                HI       6'    O
                            /     NNy.           __N___NN
                      3 H3 PO4          HN    0                                                  HN   0
    H3CO            Compound (E-a)         OCH 3              H3CO           Compound (E)           OCH 3
            Compound (E-a) (10.0 g, 10.1 mmol) was dissolved in water (100 g) and then
   dichloromethane (132 g) and 28% ammonium hydroxide (7.2 g) were added sequentially.
25 The biphasic mixture was stirred for 45 minutes. Celite (2.2 g) was added, the mixture was
   filtered through a bed of additional Celite (5.1 g), and the phases were then separated. The
   lower organic phase was washed with water (50 g), filtered, and then concentrated by rotary
   evaporation to produce Compound (E). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.35-7.17 (m, 8H),
   5.6-4.68 (m, 3H), 4.41-3.96 (m, 2H), 3.96-3.72 (br s, 1H), 3.74-3.48 (m, 2H), 3.42 (d, 2H),
30 3.33 (s, 3H), 3.28 (s, 1H), 3.19-3.01 (m, 1H), 3.00-2.79 (m, 1H), 2.69-1.82 (m, 6H), 1.80
    1.45 (m, 3H), 1.21-0.73 (m, 8H).
                                                      130

            Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, tris-hydrochloride salts of Compound (E) may be used. Various
   bases may be employed, such as sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium hydroxide,
   and potassium hydroxide. Various solvents, such as 2-methyltetrahydrofuran and ethyl
 5 acetate, may be employed. The temperature may range from about 15 'C to about 25 'C.
   Alternative Free-Basing of Compound (E-b) to Prepare Compound (E)
                      3HCI              HN   O                                                   HN
    H3 CO3          Compound (E-b)         OCH 3             H3 CO          Compound (E)            OCH 3
10          Compound (E-b) (15.2 g) was dissolved in water (100 g) and then dichloromethane
   (132 g) and 28% ammonium hydroxide (7.4 g) were added sequentially. The biphasic
   mixture was stirred for about 45 minutes. Celite (2.1 g) was added, the mixture was filtered
   through a bed of additional Celite (5.2 g), and the phases were then separated. The lower
   organic phase was washed with water (50 g), filtered, and then concentrated by rotary
15 evaporation to produce Compound (E). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3OD) 6 7.92-6.73 (m, 8H),
   5.51-4.90 (m, 2H), 4.63-4.30 (m, 3H), 4.21-3.78 (m, 1H), 3.73-3.46 (m, 5H), 3.40-3.19 (m,
   4H), 3.07-2.49 (m, 3H), 2.41-1.61 (m, 6H), 1.44-1.14 (m, 2H), 1.04-0.55 (m, 7H).
   Salt Conversion of Compound (E-a) to Compound (E-b)
20
                                Ou H                                               0.    H
          (~H                      N O                                                       O
                                                                    KH IN      C                 HN   0
                       H                                                 H
                       3 H3 PO4         HN   O                              -3 HCI               HNO
    H3CO            Compound (E-a)         OCH 3              H3CO-          Compound (E-b)         OCH 3
            A solution of Compound (E-a) (10.0 g, 10.1 mmol), a solution of 37% HCl (10 g) in
   water (20 g), and acetonitrile (30 g)was warmed to about 50 'C and agitated for about lh.
25 The solution was cooled to about 20 'C and acetonitrile (58 g) was charged to the reactor
   during which time a slurry formed. The slurry was stirred for about 21 h and then additional
   acetonitrile (39 g) was added. The slurry was cooled to about 0 'C, held for about 60 min
   and the solids were then isolated by filtration, rinsed with 7% (w/w) water in acetonitrile (22
   g) previously cooled to about 5 'C. The wet cake was partially deliquored to afford
30 Compound (E-b). 'H NMR (400 MHz, D 2 0) 6 7.92-6.73 (m, 8H), 5.51-4.90 (m, 2H),
                                                   131

   4.63-4.30 (m, 3H), 4.21-3.78 (m, 1H), 3.73-3.46 (m, 5H), 3.40-3.19 (m, 4H), 3.07-2.49 (m,
   3H), 2.41-1.61 (m, 6H), 1.44-1.14 (m, 2H), 1.04-0.55 (m, 7H).
   Coupling Reaction of Compound (E) and Compound (F) to Prepare Compound (A)
                                                        H   0
                                              H3 CO   . N6    OH
                                                    O              H3CO
                         0u                             ItJ             NH          0     H
                                          N-0                              0                N
          H                                       Cmu          (F)
          N]HN                            ON                                                   HN   0
 5  H3 CO          Compound (E)         OCH3                                 Compound (A)         oCH 3
             A flask was charged sequentially with 2-chloro-4,6-bis[3-(perfluorohexyl)propyloxy]
    1,3,5-triazine ("CDMT") (2.2 giv) and methanol (8.9 g) and the slurry was cooled to about 0
   'C. To the mixture was added NMM (1.3 g) over about 5 minutes, maintaining an internal
10 temperature of less than 20 'C. The solution was stirred for about 20 minutes to produce a
   solution of 4-(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)-4-methylmorpholinium chloride in methanol.
             To a solution of Compound (E) (7.1 g) in dichloromethane (170 g) was added
   Compound (F) (2.8 g). The solution of 4-(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)-4
   methylmorpholinium chloride in methanol was added over 2 minutes followed by a rinse of
15 methanol (1.1 g). After about 2.5 h, the completed reaction solution was washed sequentially
   with aqueous 10% potassium bicarbonate solution (40 mL), 3% hydrochloric acid (40 mL),
   and aqueous 10% potassium bicarbonate solution (40 mL). The lower organic phase was
   washed with water (40 mL), filtered, and then concentrated by rotary evaporation to produce
   Compound (A). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.56-6.67 (m, 13H), 5.76-4.94 (m, 4H),
20 4.86-4.67 (m, 1H), 4.47-3.98 (m, 1H), 3.98-2.72 (m, 15H), 2.74-1.77 (m, 7H), 1.77-1.40
   (m, 2H), 1.39-0.53 (m, 8H).
             Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, tris-phosphate salts or tris-hydrochloride salts of Compound (G)
   may be used as alternative starting material. The reaction may take place at a temperature
25 range of from about 10 'C to about 20 'C. Alternative coupling agents include, but are not
   limited to, EDC/HOBt, HATU, HBTU, TBTU, BOP, PyClOP, PyBOP, DCC/HOBt, COMU,
   EDCI/Oxyma, T3P, and 4-(4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)-4-methylmorpholinium
   tetrafluoroborate. An alternative bases that may be employed can be diisopropylethylamine.
   The reaction may proceed in DMF and at temperatures ranging from about -20 'C to about
30 30 0C.
                                                        132

   Salt Formation and Crystallization of Compound (A)
   Crystallization of Compound (A-a)
    H3CO                                                        H3 CO
                                            H                         _NH                     0
           NH                          N0                       H       )                      '
          0    /        /\        /\      N                                                          N_11"\
                            \/      <2      N~0                                   H   .2HCI                    H~
        H3CO         Compound (A)            OCH3                    H3CO           Compound (A-a)                OCH3
 5
              A flask was charged with Compound (A) (10 g) and ethanol (125 mL) and was then
   warmed to about 45 'C. Concentrated hydrochloric acid (2.3 mL) was added followed by
   Compound (A-a) seed crystals (5 mg). The mixture was cooled to about 20 'C over about 5
10 h and held for about an additional 11 h. The solids were isolated by filtration, washed with
   ethanol (2 x 20 mL), and deliquored to produce Compound (A-a). 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   CD 30D) 6 8.94-7.22 (m, 14H), 5.78-5.11 (m, 5H), 4.53-4.04 (m, 1H), 3.99-3.57 (m, 1OH),
   3.57-3.41 (m, 2H), 2.99-2.24 (m, 5H), 2.24-1.85 (m, 3H), 1.80-1.50 (m, 2H), 1.39-0.73 (m,
   8H).
15 Alternative Crystallization of Compound (A-b)
    H3CO                                                        H3CO
             _NH                0      H                              _NH           0         0      H
                             /\N\                                  0                                        0011
                     I               -                                    -_'/) t                Y   NH
                           HHN,,              0                                       A H 3 P04    -           HN   0e
        H3C0         Compou3COd(A                                                  Compound (A-b)                 OCH3
20            A reaction vessel was charged with Compound (A) (25.0 g) followed by ethanol (125
   mL) and 10% H 3 PO 4 (250 mL). The solution was seeded with Compound (A-b) (100 mg)
   and stirred for about 17.5 h. The solids were isolated by filtration, washed with ethanol (2 x
   5 mL), deliquored, and dried in a vacuum oven to produce Compound (A-b). 1H NMR (400
   MHz, D 2 0)     6 7.76-6.48 (m, 13H), 5.53-4.90 (m, 3H), 4.60-4.32 (m, 2H), 4.29-3.76 (m, 1H),
25 3.70-2.75 (m, 14H), 2.66-1.51 (m, 8H), 1.51-1.09 (m, 3H), 1.05-0.45 (m, 7H).
              Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, alternative acids may be hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, L
   tartaric acid. Various solvents may be employed, such as methanol, ethanol, water, and
   isopropanol. The reaction may proceed at temperatures ranging from about 5 'C to about 60
30 0C.
                                                    133

   Free-Basing of Compound (A)
   Free-Basing of Compound (A-a) to Prepare Compound (A)
    H3CO                                                        H3CO
                                                                                      0
           NH
                >NH0                     H
                                           ~
                                         N_\
                                                                     _NH
                                                                         0                    N\/\_
                                               N                                                      NNO
                              .2HCIHN                   0N                                                  0
        H3 CO-z        Compound (A-a)                 OCH3          H3CO        Compound (A)              0CH 3
 5            A reaction vessel was charged with Compound (A-a) (18.2 g) followed by ethyl
   acetate (188 g) and 10% potassium bicarbonate (188 g) and the mixture was stirred for about
   25 minutes. The phases were separated and the upper organic phase was then washed with
   water (188 mL). The resulting organic solution was concentrated, ethanol (188 g) was added,
   and the solution was evaporated to produce a concentrate (75 g). The resulting concentrate
10 added into water (376 g) to produce a slurry. The solids were isolated by filtration, washed
   with water (38 g), deliquored and dried in a vacuum oven at about 50 'C to produce
   Compound (A).
15
   Alternative Free-Basing of Compound (A-b) to Prepare Compound (A)
    H3CO                                                        H3CO
         /NH      0               0      Hl 0                     0  _NH              0       H       N
                /   N   /\          /\       1
                                                 'iN                             /                 "' N
                       NN              \                                   N~      -     -\,'
                           . x H3PO 4              HN   0                                              HN   O
        H3CO-         Compound (A-b)                  OCH 3         H3CO       Compound   (A)             OCH3
20            A reaction vessel was charged with Compound (A-b) (3.0 g) followed by EtOAc (15
   mL) and 10% KHCO 3 (15 mL) and agitation was initiated. After about 5 h, the phases were
   separated and the organic phase was washed with water (15 mL) and then concentrated by
   rotary evaporation under vacuum. The residue was taken up in EtOH (4.5 mL) and then
   added to water (30 mL) to produce a slurry. After about 15 min, the solids were isolated by
25 filtration rinsing forward water (3 x 3 mL). The solids were dried at about 50 to 60 'C
   vacuum oven for about 15 h to produce Compound (A).
              Alternative reagents and reaction conditions to those disclosed above may also be
   employed. For example, an alternative base may be ammonium hydroxide or dibasic
                                                            134

   potassium phosphate. Various solvents may be employed, such as ethanol and water. The
   reaction may proceed at temperatures ranging from about 15 'C to about 25 'C.
           The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments
 5 disclosed in the examples, which are intended to be illustrations of a few embodiments of the
   disclosure, nor is the disclosure to be limited by any embodiments that are functionally
   equivalent within the scope of this disclosure. Indeed, various modifications of the disclosure
   in addition to those shown and described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the
   art and are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. To this end, it should be
10 noted that one or more hydrogen atoms or methyl groups can be omitted from the drawn
   structures consistent with accepted shorthand notation of such organic compounds, and that
   one skilled in the art of organic chemistry would readily appreciate their presence. All
   patents and publications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                                   135

1002230563
CLAIMS:
1.       A method for preparing a salt of a compound of formula (A):
                       H3CO
                             /
                               d
                                   KH
                                    0 N
                                                  H
                                                               0  ~
                                                                    HN  ..0
                            H3CO-                                       OCH 3  (A)
         comprising contacting the compound of formula (A) with an acid selected from
phosphoric acid, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, and L-tartaric acid under reaction
conditions sufficient to yield the salt of a compound of formula (A).
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the reaction
in a solvent selected from methanol, ethanol, water, and isopropanol.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the
contacting step at a temperature ranging from about 5 'C to about 60 'C.
4.       A method for preparing a compound of formula (A-a):
                     H3CO NH
                                      N
                                                          H      .N ....
                                   d-0NN
                                                              0Q
                                                                   HN    0
                           H3 CO                                       OCH 3  (A-a)
         comprising contacting a compound of formula (A):
                       H3 01
                             / NH
                               b    0   N~          0      H
                                 /        H
                                                                    HN0
                            H3 00_                                      OCH 3  (A)
         with hydrochloric acid under reaction conditions sufficient to yield the compound of
formula (A-a).
5.       The method of claim 4, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the reaction
in ethanol.
6.       The method of claim 4, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the
contacting step at a temperature of about 45 'C.
7.       A method for preparing a compound of formula (A-b):
                                                 136

1002230563
                      H3 CO
                         d-   NH          N\                   H   D    11
                                    / N~                    0O  N    N
                                             H*xH3 PO 4               HN    0
                            H3 CO-                                        OCH 3  (A-b)
         comprising contacting a compound of formula (A):
                       H3 CO
                               / NH
                                       0N                0H
                                                                       HN     0
                                  H 3 CH
                             H3CO_                                         OCH3   (A)
         with phosphoric acid under reaction conditions sufficient to yield the compound of
formula (A-b).
8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the reaction
in ethanol.
9.       The method of claim 7, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the
contacting step at a temperature ranging from about 5 'C to about 60 'C.
10.      A method for preparing a compound of formula (A):
                       H3 CO
                                                                       HN     O
                             H3CO-                                         OCH 3  (A)
         comprising contacting a compound of formula (A-a):
                      H3CO
                                                    N~           N0
                                 /H             *2HCI                 H
                            H3 CO-                                        OCH 3  (A-a)
         under reaction conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (A).
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the reaction conditions comprise 10% potassium
bicarbonate.
12.      The method of claim 10, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the
reaction in ethyl acetate.
                                                      137

1002230563
13.      The method of claim 12, wherein the reaction conditions further comprise the steps of:
         a) separating and washing the organic phase with water;
         b) concentrating the organic phase and adding the resulting concentrate to water; and
         c) isolating the compound of formula (A) by filtration.
14.      A method for preparing a compound of formula (A):
                        H3 CO
                               NH
                                                                    HN      0
                             H3CO-                                       OCH 3  (A)
         comprising contacting a compound of formula (A-b):
                       H3 CO
                            Q}NH                           H         -11
                                         N                      N
                                       N>"'                     0
                                  <N  H     x HPO4                 HN     0
                            H3CO-                                      OCH 3   (A-b)
         with a base under reaction conditions sufficient to yield the compound of formula (A).
15.      The method of claim 14, wherein the reaction conditions comprise ammonium hydroxide,
dibasic potassium phosphate or potassium bicarbonate.
16.      The method of claim 14, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the
reaction in ethanol, water or ethyl acetate.
17.      The method of claim 14, wherein the reaction conditions comprise performing the
contacting step at temperatures ranging from about 15 'C to about 25 'C.
18.      The method of claim 14, wherein the reaction conditions further comprise the steps of:
         a) separating and washing the organic phase with water;
         b) concentrating the organic phase, taking up the residue in ethanol and adding the
resulting mixture to water; and
         c) isolating the compound of formula (A) by filtration.
                                                 138

1002230563
19.      A compound of formula (A):
                    H3 CO
                            NH                  0       H
                                     0                    N 0C    "
                                                               HN    O
                         H3CO                                      OCH 3 (A)
obtained by the method of any one of claims 1-3 or 10-18.
                                              139

