                                         ABSTRACT
          A system and method is provided for generating an optimized ship schedule to deliver
  liquefied natural gas (LNG) from one or more LNG liquefaction terminals to one or more
  LNG regasification terminals using a fleet of ships. The method involves modeling the ship
5 schedule via an LNG ship scheduling model and a LNG ship rescheduling model to provide
  optimized decisions for the LNG supply chain. The LNG supply chain includes the one or
  more LNG liquefaction terminals, the one or more LNG regasification terminals, and the fleet
  of ships.

                             f302                   v300
     Obtain feasibility model
                             4-304
           Initialization
                               306
      Calculate parameters
                          308 No
                   t<T9 t<T              Determine feasible
                               ?solution             to the
                                          feasibility model
                      Yes
                               312
      Adjust coefficients for
        objective function
                    ,314
       Create sub problem
                               316
    Adjust solver configuration
                               318
      Solve the sub problem
                              f320
L--           Update
                          FIG. 3
                          6/12

      METHOD OF GENERATING AN OPTIMIZED SHIP SCHEDULE TO DELIVER
                                   LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
    [0001]     This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications
 5 62/020,892 filed July 3, 2014 entitled METHOD OF GENERATING AN OPTIMIZED SHIP
   SCHEDULE       TO DELIVER LIQUEFIED NATURAL                  GAS; U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application 62/020,890 filed July 3, 2014 entitled METHOD OF GENERATING AN
   OPTIMIZED SHIP SCHEDULE TO DELIVER LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS; and U.S.
   Provisional Patent Application 61/990,035 filed May 7, 2014 entitled METHOD OF
10 GENERATING         AN    OPTIMIZED       SHIP   SCHEDULE       TO   DELIVER      LIQUEFIED
   NATURAL GAS, the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [0002]      Disclosed aspects and methodologies relate to Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG)
   operations, and more particularly, to systems and methods relating to planning and operations
15 of an LNG project or projects.
                                           BACKGROUND
   [0003]      This section is intended to introduce various aspects of the art, which may be
   associated with aspects of the disclosed techniques and methodologies. References discussed
   in this section may be referred to hereinafter. This discussion, including the references, is
20 believed to assist in providing a framework to facilitate a better understanding of particular
   aspects of the disclosure. Accordingly, this section should be read in this light and not
   necessarily as admissions of prior art.
   [0004]      The current liquefied natural gas (LNG) business is driven by long-term contracts
   and planning. Currently, annual delivery schedules for each LNG project are planned and
25 agreed upon by various parties before the beginning of each contractual time period. In
   addition, an updated 90-day delivery schedule is developed by the LNG producer and
   provided to customers every month to account for deviations from the annual schedule.
   Agreement on these delivery plans can involve significant negotiation and coordination of
   operations by several parties. Consequently, developing a portfolio of LNG projects and
                                                 -1 -

   operating LNG liquefaction terminals involves significant long-term planning which can
   greatly benefit from robust planning and optimization tools.
   [0005]       Increasing liquidity in the LNG market may cause the global LNG business to
   evolve from a long-term contracts based business to one with significantly more flexibility
 5 and short-term sales. This will complicate the management of projects since operations will
   have to be optimized not only to satisfy contractual obligations but also to maximize
   profitability by exploiting contractual flexibility and market opportunities. Known attempts to
   manage LNG projects via computational technology               have fallen short because      of
   substantially reduced scope, reduced capabilities of the proposed solutions, and/or a lack of
10 the technology utilized. The following paragraphs discuss known attempts as they relate to
   various aspects of the disclosed methodologies and techniques.
   [0006]       Many conventional LNG projects tend to use simple spreadsheets for scheduling
   ships. The schedule has to be populated manually and does not provide any optimization
   functionality. Even in the more detailed systems, there are no known integrated models for
15 lifting schedule generation combined with ship schedule optimization. This can lead to sub
   optimal plans manifested in over-utilization of spot vessels for satisfying contractual
   demands. Further, generating a feasible shipping schedule could require a great number of
   iterations between the capacity planning and the ship scheduling components. Additionally,
   the ship scheduling components of the more sophisticated models do not seek to optimize
20 schedules for selling spot cargoes, and do not account for transportation losses in cargo (e.g.
   boil-off, fuel) and consequently the generated ship schedules have discrepancies when
   attempting to satisfy contractual obligations related to annual volume delivered.
   [0007]       As an example, Rakke et al appears to describe a first attempt to address problems
   of developing Annual Development Plans (ADPs) for larger LNG projects. See, e.g., J.G.
25 Rakke, M. Stilhane, C.R. Moe, M. Christiansen, H. Andersson, K. Fagerholt, I. Norstad,
   (2010), "A rolling horizon heuristic for creating a liquefied natural gas annual delivery
   program", to appear in Transportation Research Part C, doi:10.1016/j.trc.2010.09.006. While
   Rakke reports results for problems with multiple ships and a one year planning horizon, the
   optimization model and solution methods are fairly simplified. For example, the model is
30 built for a case with only one producing terminal, boil-off and heel calculations are not
   integrated with ship schedules, partial loads and discharges are not allowed, time windows
   are not specified for deliveries, etc. From a practical perspective, known ship schedule
                                                   -2-

   methodologies address a much simplified and a small subset of the LNG ship schedule
   optimization problem.
   [0008]      To address some of the problems in conventional methods, other methods may
   provide the capability to perform a number of valuation and validation analyses for the LNG
 5 supply chain incorporating options and opportunities. See, .e.g., Intl. Patent Application
   Publication Nos. 2013/085688; 2013/085689; 2013/085690; 2013/085691; and 2013/085692.
   These methods may include identification and valuation of short-term and long-term options,
   portfolio planning analysis, and management of shipping operations, validation of supply
   chain operability, and new LNG project design and evaluation. Accordingly, these references
10 describe a suite of fit-for-purpose optimization and analytics applications are used in
   combination within various workflows and methodologies. In particular, these models form
   the combined suite of applications (e.g., five optimization and analytical models in the
   software suite) to be used in operations, analysis and decision-making within the LNG value
   chain. These models include: (1) ship scheduling, which has a capability for combined LNG
15 ship scheduling, logistics and inventory optimization to develop annual delivery programs,
   rolling 90-day schedules, or schedules of any other useful scheduling time horizon; (2)
   optionality planning, which is used to identify the benefits, value or advantages in potential
   options and investments in long-term global LNG market analysis and for portfolio planning;
   (3) price model, which provides advanced price scenario generation capabilities enabling the
20 valuation and statistical analysis of short-term optionality; (4) supply chain design, which
   provides optimization under uncertainty for robust LNG supply chain designs of new LNG
   projects including appropriate operational details; and (5) shipping simulation, which is a
   high-fidelity simulator to study, probabilistically analyze and visualize the behavior of LNG
   supply chain operations. The models encompass a variety of analytical tasks and levels of
25 fidelity.
   [0009]      Despite these enhancements, existing models for Annual Development Plan fail to
   properly integrate each of the components, such as multiple production facilities, multiple
   storage facilities, multiple berths both in production and regas side, multiple LNG grades,
   multiple ships in varying capacities and fuel options, multiple contracts/delivery locations,
30 mass balance calculations (production, inventory, and potential losses), full, partial and co
   loads, planned dry-dock schedules, ratability windows, complex delivery windows, and fiscal
   calculations. Accordingly, a need exists to integrate each of the components within a model
   that can optimize all variables simultaneously. In addition, conventional algorithms do not
                                                  -3-

   optimize real-sized problems in a time frame necessary for practical business purposes. In
   particular, what is needed is an algorithm and its extensions that optimize real-sized models
   in a reasonable time frame. Further, conventional methods consider all constraints to be
   equally important. Hence, for highly constrained systems, these methods may be unsuccessful
 5 in finding any solution due to their inherent inflexibility. As such, a need exists to be able to
   prioritize constraints such that some of them can be considered more important ("hard"), than
   others ("soft"). This will enable us to find solutions than can satisfy all hard (critical)
   constraints and minimize violation in the soft (less important) constraints. As a result, finding
   good solutions can become easier, with the possibility of improving economics at the expense
10 of minor violations in the soft constraints.
   [0010]       Further still, none of the conventional models provide the ability to update the
   ship schedules based on operational disruption events, or on updated information that is
   different from the assumptions that were used for developing the plan. This type of
   functionality is useful in developing 90-day delivery schedules. Because the annual delivery
15 schedules are negotiated between the LNG buyers and LNG sellers to best suit the interests of
   both parties, a need exists to develop updated ship schedules being able to re-optimize the
   schedules, such that the deviations from the initial plan can be minimized, in addition to
   maximizing economics.
                                              SUMMARY
20 [0011]       One aspect provides a computer implemented method for generating an optimized
   ship schedule to deliver liquefied natural gas (LNG) from one or more LNG liquefaction
   terminals to one or more LNG regasification terminals using a fleet of ships, comprising:
            obtaining input data on the LNG shipping operations;
            defining one or more objectives associated with the LNG shipping operations in a
25 computer system;
            defining one or more constraints in the computer system, wherein at least one of the
   one or more constraints is configurable to be a hard constraint or a soft constraint, wherein
   the soft constraint permits minor violations of the soft constraint;
            prioritizing the one or more constraints based on the one or more objectives;
30          defining at least one of the one or more constraints to be the hard constraint based on
   the prioritization;
            defining at least one of the one or more constraints to be the soft constraint based on
   the prioritization;
                                                   -4-

           determining one or more algorithms to optimize an LNG ship scheduling model in
   the computer system;
   calculating optimal decisions with the one or more algorithms based on the one or more
   objectives, input data and one or more constraints in the computer system, wherein the
 5 calculating optimal decisions with the one or more algorithms comprises:
           generating a feasible solution to a feasibility model, wherein the feasibility model is
   based on the LNG ship scheduling model;
           generating an optimal solution to the feasibility model;
           calculating a soft constraint violation with respect to original constraint range for one
10 of the constraints, after generating the optimal solution to the feasibility model; and
           calculating a minimal violation for the calculated constraint violation; and using the
   output from the calculation to perform LNG shipping operations.
   [0012]      .The calculating optimal decisions with the one or more algorithms may further
   include generating a feasible solution to a feasibility model, wherein the feasibility model is a
15 based on the LNG ship scheduling model; and generating an optimal solution to the
   feasibility model; minimizing the in-chartered ships using an in-charter model, wherein the
   in-charter model is based on the LNG ship scheduling model; searching for out-charter
   opportunities using an out-charter model, wherein the out-charter model is based on the LNG
   ship scheduling model; computing optimal solution to an optimality model, wherein the
20 optimality model is based on the LNG ship scheduling model.
   [0013]      The calculating optimal decisions with one or more algorithms may futher include
   generating soft constraints, wherein the soft constraints may be applied to one or more
   models stated above; and minimizing violations with respect to soft constraints after
   generating optimal solution to the feasibility model or generating optimal solution to
25 optimality model.
   [0014]      A further aspect provides a system for generating an optimized ship schedule to
   deliver liquefied natural gas (LNG) from one or more LNG liquefaction terminals to one or
   more LNG regasification terminals using a fleet of ships, comprising:
           a processor;
30         an input device in communication with the processor and configured to receive input
   data associated with the LNG shipping operations;
           memory in communication with the processor, the memory having a set of
   instructions, wherein the set of instructions, when executed, are configured to:
                                                   -5-

                 define one or more objectives associated with the LNG shipping operations;
                 define one or more objectives associated with the LNG shipping operations;
                 define one or more constraints, wherein one of the one or more constraints is
           configurable to be a hard constraint or a soft constraint, wherein the soft constraint is
 5         configured to permit minor violations of the soft constraint;
                 prioritize the one or more constraints based on the one or more objectives;
                 define at least one of the one or more constraints to be the hard constraint based
           on the prioritization;
                 define at least one of the one or more constraints to be the soft constraint based
10         on the prioritization;
                 determine one or more algorithms to optimize an LNG ship scheduling model;
                 calculate optimal decisions with the one or more algorithms based on the one or
           more objectives, input data and one or more constraints;
                 generate a feasible solution to a feasibility model, wherein the feasibility model
15         is based on the LNG ship scheduling model;
                 generate an optimal solution to the feasibility model;
   calculate a constraint violation of the feasibility solution using the soft constraint with respect
           to one of the one or more constraints; and
                 minimize the constraint violation based on the one of the one or more
20         constraints using at least one penalty term in the objective; and
           an output device that outputs the optimized ship schedule.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0015]      The foregoing and other advantages of the present invention may become
   apparent upon reviewing the following detailed description and drawings of non-limiting
25 examples of embodiments in which:
   [0016]      Figure 1A is a block diagram of a LNG supply chain design optimization model.
   [0017]      Figure 1B is a flow chart of a LNG supply chain design optimization.
   [0018]      Figure 2A is a flow chart of an LNG ship scheduling optimization method
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques.
30 [0019]      Figure 2B is a flow chart of the five stage algorithm method for the LNG ship
   scheduling model according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques.
                                                   -6-

    [0020]     Figure 2C is a flow chart of the five stage algorithm with soft extensions method
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques.
    [0021]     Figure 3 is flow chart of a rolling time algorithm according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present techniques.
 5  [0022]     Figure 4 is a block diagram of a LNG ship rescheduling optimization model for
   use in a 90-day plan according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques.
    [0023]     Figure 5A is a block diagram of how the system may be implemented for the LNG
   ship rescheduling model according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques.
    [0024]     Figure 5B is a flow chart of the five stage algorithm method for the LNG ship
10 rescheduling model according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques.
    [0025]     Figure 6 is a chart of a notional curve representing the incremental economics
   generated by allowing for more changes in the updated schedule compared to the baseline
   schedule.
    [0026]     Figure 7 is a diagram that representations the difference in ship schedules in the
15 updated and baseline plans.
    [0027]     Figure 8 shows a chart of a notional comparison of economics for the updated
   delivery plan compared to baseline delivery plan.
    [0028]     Figure 9 is a diagram that represents the difference in ship schedules for how
   cargos are moving between the ships.
20  [0029]     Figure 10 is another diagram that represents the difference in ship schedules for
   how cargos are moving between the ships.
    [0030]     Figure 11 is a diagram that represents the difference in ship assignments.
    [0031]     Figure 12 is another diagram that represents the difference in ship assignments.
    [0032]     Figure 13 is a block diagram of a computing system according to disclosed
25 aspects and methodologies.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    [0033]     To the extent the following description is specific to a particular embodiment or a
   particular use, this is intended to be illustrative only and is not to be construed as limiting the
   scope of the invention. On the contrary, it is intended to cover all alternatives, modifications,
30 and equivalents that may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention.
    [0034]     Some portions of the detailed description which follows are presented in terms of
   procedures, steps, logic blocks, processing and other symbolic representations of operations
                                                    -7-

   on data bits within a memory in a computing system or a computing device. These
   descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing
   arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. In this
   detailed description, a procedure, step, logic block, process, or the like, is conceived to be a
 5 self-consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are
   those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, although not
   necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical, magnetic, or optical signals capable of
   being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven
   convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits,
10 values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
   [0035]      Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions,
   terms such as generating, modeling, accepting, interfacing, running, outputting, evaluating,
   optimizing, performing, minimizing,        maximizing, developing, determining,         analyzing,
   identifying, representing, incorporating, entering, employing, displaying, using, integrating,
15 simulating, valuating, valuing, validating, comparing, accounting for, prescribing, or the like,
   may refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or other electronic device, that
   transforms data represented as physical (electronic, magnetic, or optical) quantities within
   some electrical device's storage into other data similarly represented as physical quantities
   within the storage, or in transmission or display devices. These and similar terms are to be
20 associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied
   to these quantities.
   [0036]      Embodiments disclosed herein also relate to an apparatus for performing the
   operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it
   may comprise a general-purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a
25 computer program or code stored in the computer. Such a computer program or code may be
   stored or encoded in a non-transitory computer readable medium or implemented over some
   type of transmission medium. A computer-readable medium includes any medium or
   mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine, such as a
   computer ('machine' and 'computer'        are used synonymously herein). As a non-limiting
30 example, a non-transitory computer-readable medium may include a computer-readable
   storage medium (e.g., read only memory ("ROM"), random access memory ("RAM"),
   magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash memory devices, etc.). A
   transmission medium may be twisted wire pairs, coaxial cable, optical fiber, or some other
                                                  -8-

   suitable transmission medium, for transmitting signals such as electrical, optical, acoustical or
   other form of propagated signals (e.g., carrier waves, infrared signals, digital signals, etc.)).
   [0037]      Furthermore, modules, features, attributes, methodologies, and other aspects can
   be implemented as software, hardware, firmware or any combination thereof. Wherever a
 5 component of the invention is implemented as software, the component can be implemented
   as a standalone program, as part of a larger program, as a plurality of separate programs, as a
   statically or dynamically linked library, as a kernel loadable module, as a device driver,
   and/or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of skill in the art of
   computer programming. Additionally, the invention is not limited to implementation in any
10 specific operating system or environment.
   [0038]      Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to flow diagrams.
   While for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the illustrated methodologies are shown and
   described as a series of blocks, it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited
   by the order of the blocks, as some blocks can occur in different orders and/or concurrently
15 with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover, less than all the illustrated
   blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Blocks may be combined or
   separated    into    multiple    components.      Furthermore,     additional    and/or alternative
   methodologies can employ additional blocks not shown herein. While the figures illustrate
   various actions occurring serially, it is to be appreciated that various actions could occur in
20 series, substantially in parallel, and/or at substantially different points in time.
   [0039]      Various terms as used herein are defined below. To the extent a term used in a
   claim is not defined below, it should be given the broadest possible definition persons in the
   pertinent art have given that term as reflected in at least one printed publication or issued
   patent.
25 [0040]      As used herein, "and/or" placed between a first entity and a second entity means
   one of (1) the first entity, (2) the second entity, and (3) the first entity and the second entity.
   Multiple elements listed with "and/or" should be construed in the same fashion, i.e., "one or
   more" of the elements so conjoined.
   [0041]      As used herein, "displaying" includes a direct act that causes displaying, as well
30 as any indirect act that facilitates displaying. Indirect acts include providing software to an
   end user, maintaining a website through which a user is enabled to affect a display,
   hyperlinking to such a website, or cooperating or partnering with an entity who performs
   such direct or indirect acts. Thus, a first party may operate alone or in cooperation with a
                                                    -9-

   third party vendor to enable the reference signal to be generated on a display device. The
   display device may include any device suitable for displaying the reference image, such as
   without limitation a CRT monitor, a LCD monitor, a plasma device, a flat panel device, or
   printer. The display device may include a device which has been calibrated through the use of
 5 any conventional software intended to be used in evaluating, correcting, and/or improving
   display results (e.g., a color monitor that has been adjusted using monitor calibration
   software). Rather than (or in addition to) displaying the reference image on a display device,
   a method, consistent with the invention, may include providing a reference image to a
   subject. "Providing a reference image" may include creating or distributing the reference
10 image to the subject by physical, telephonic, or electronic delivery, providing access over a
   network to the reference, or creating or distributing software to the subject configured to run
   on the subject's workstation or computer including the reference image. In one example, the
   providing of the reference image could involve enabling the subject to obtain the reference
   image in hard copy form via a printer. For example, information, software, and/or
15 instructions could be transmitted (e.g., electronically or physically via a data storage device
   or hard copy) and/or otherwise made available (e.g., via a network) to facilitate the subject
   using a printer to print a hard copy form of reference image. In such an example, the printer
   may be a printer which has been calibrated through the use of any conventional software
   intended to be used in evaluating, correcting, and/or improving printing results (e.g., a color
20 printer that has been adjusted using color correction software).
   [0042]      As used herein, "exemplary" is used exclusively herein to mean "serving as an
   example, instance, or illustration." Any aspect described herein as "exemplary" is not
   necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects.
   [0043]      As used herein, "hydrocarbon" includes any of the following: oil (often referred to
25 as petroleum), natural gas in any form including liquefied natural gas (LNG), gas condensate,
   tar and bitumen.
   [0044]      As used herein, "machine-readable medium" refers to a non-transitory medium
   that participates in directly or indirectly providing signals, instructions and/or data. A
   machine-readable medium may take forms, including, but not limited to, non-volatile media
30 (e.g. ROM, disk) and volatile media (RAM). Common forms of a machine-readable medium
   include, but are not limited to, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, a hard disk, a magnetic tape,
   other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, other optical medium, a RAM, a ROM, an EPROM, a
                                                 - 10 -

   FLASH-EPROM, EEPROM, or other memory chip or card, a memory stick, and other media
   from which a computer, a processor or other electronic device can read.
   [0045]       The terms "optimal," "optimizing," "optimize," "optimality," "optimization" (as
   well as derivatives and other forms of those terms and linguistically related words and
 5 phrases), as used herein, are not intended to be limiting in the sense of requiring the present
   invention to find the best solution or to make the best decision. Although a mathematically
   optimal solution may in fact arrive at the best of all mathematically available possibilities,
   real-world embodiments of optimization routines, methods, models, and processes may work
   towards such a goal without ever actually achieving perfection. Accordingly, one of ordinary
10 skill in the art having benefit of the present disclosure will appreciate that these terms, in the
   context of the scope of the present invention, are more general. The terms may describe one
   or more of: 1) working towards a solution which may be the best available solution, a
   preferred solution, or a solution that offers a specific benefit within a range of constraints; 2)
   continually improving; 3) refining; 4) searching for a high point or a maximum for an
15 objective; 5) processing to reduce a penalty function; or 6) seeking to maximize one or more
   factors in light of competing and/or cooperative interests in maximizing, minimizing, or
   otherwise controlling one or more other factors, etc.
   [0046]       As used herein, the term "production entity" or "production entities" refer to
   entities involved in a liquefaction project or regasification project.
20 [0047]       Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to flow diagrams.
   While for purposes of simplicity of explanation, the illustrated methodologies are shown and
   described as a series of blocks, it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited
   by the order of the blocks, as some blocks can occur in different orders and/or concurrently
   with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover, less than all the illustrated
25 blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Blocks may be combined or
   separated     into   multiple    components.      Furthermore,     additional    and/or alternative
   methodologies can employ additional blocks not shown herein. While the figures illustrate
   various actions occurring serially, it is to be appreciated that various actions could occur in
   series, substantially in parallel, and/or at substantially different points in time.
30 [0048]       In general, LNG inventory routing problems (IRPs) have special characteristics
   that differentiate them from general maritime IRP's. Maritime IRP's in turn have special
   characteristics that distinguish them from vehicle routing problem (VRPs). The LNG IRP is
   based on a real-world application and shares the fundamental properties of a single product
                                                   - 11 -

   maritime IRP. However, the LNG IRP includes several variations including variable
   production    and consumption rates, LNG specific          contractual obligations, and berth
   constraints. Further, the LNG IRP seeks to generate schedules where each ship perform
   several voyages over a time horizon with both the number of voyages and the time horizon
 5 being considerably larger than those considered by a typical maritime IRP. As an example,
   LNG boils off during transportation and this boil-off can be used as fuel. Further, LNG
   involves long term delivery contracts where schedules for a year have to developed and then
   adhered to as closely as possible. In LNG shipping, the ships are typically fully loaded and
   fully discharged and the ships are owned/leased by shipper, which further complicate the
10 economics related to taxes, royalties, etc.
   [0049]      The present techniques involve enhancements to systems and methods for ship
   schedule optimization. The present techniques involve integrating LNG ship schedule
   optimization and inventory management in an enhanced manner. As may be appreciated,
   various inputs, such as production schedule of different grades of LNG, inventory limitations,
15 ship fleet details and ship-terminal compatibility, contract details including destinations,
   quantity, pricing, ratability requirements are integrated to enhance LNG shipping operations.
   As part of the LNG shipping optimization algorithm, several search routines may be utilized
   to optimize shipping decisions, e.g., which ship to deliver which cargo to a certain
   destination. Typically, the optimal solution is searched for a criterion such as maximizing
20 social economics, minimizing shipping cost. Exemplary ship schedule optimization methods
   and systems are described in Intl. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2013/085688;
   2013/085689; 2013/085690; 2013/085691; and 2013/085692, each of which is incorporated
   hereby by reference in their entirety.
   [0050]      As shown in Figure 1A, an LNG optimization model 102 may obtain various
25 inputs, such as production terminal information 104 (e.g., production schedule and/or
   infrastructure constraints), ship fleet information 106 (e.g., terminal compatibility, boil-off
   rates, fuel options, and/or degree of pooling), delivery contract information 108 (e.g.,
   destination, annual quantity, ratability, pricing and/or optionality), and fiscal information 110
   (e.g., tax and/or royalty structure). These inputs are used by the LNG shipping optimization
30 model 102 to generate various outputs that are used in the LNG shipping operations. These
   outputs include shipping decision information 112 (e.g., ship schedule, optimal fleet size, fuel
   requirements, speed selection, maintenance schedule); terminal inventory profile 114 (e.g.,
                                                  - 12 -

   amount of inventory for a given time period); optionality information 116 (e.g., diversions);
   and profitability metrics 118 (e.g., taxes, royalty, expenses, allocation of income, etc.).
   [0051]      As LNG projects include one or more LNG production or liquefaction terminals
   that supply LNG to multiple regasification terminals using a fleet of ships, the outputs of the
 5 LNG shipping optimization model 102 generates a schedule and associated plans for the
   LNG shipping operations. The outputs include an annual delivery plan (ADP) created to
   specify the LNG delivery schedule for the forthcoming planning period (e.g., year) for one or
   more customers. The ADP may be developed and agreed upon by the supplier and the various
   customers. In addition, one or more 90-day plans (e.g., delivery schedule that accounts for
10 deviations in the existing business conditions from the forecasts used during the ADP
   development) is provided by the LNG shipping optimization model 102. This 90-day plan
   may be provided to one or more customers on a monthly basis through the year.
   [0052]      The present techniques involve enhancement to a method and system to develop
   annual delivery plans (ADPs) and some of which apply to developing 90-day schedules
15 (90DS). Specifically, the system enables optimization of ship schedules, terminal inventory
   management, LNG production schedules, and maintenance schedules while accounting for
   tradeoffs related to various options in available shipping, customer requirements, price
   uncertainty, contract flexibility, market conditions, and the like. The system may provide the
   ability to optimize these decisions from several perspectives including minimizing costs,
20 satisfying contractual obligations, maximizing profit, and the like.
   [0053]      The method and system includes specific workflows, which use various
   optimization models to provide enhanced ADP and 90-day plans. As an example, the system
   may include models and algorithms stored in memory, input data and output data stored in
   one or more databases, and a graphical user interface.
25 [0054]      For ADP creation, the disclosed aspects and methodologies provide the capability
   to perform a number of valuation and validation analyses for the LNG supply chain
   incorporating options and opportunities. In particular, one or more embodiments may be
   include a system or method that enhances LNG ship scheduling modeling (e.g., ADP
   modeling), such that the LNG ship scheduling model is configured to (1) obtain input data
30 associated with LNG shipping operations; (2) determine objectives for the LNG shipping
   operations; (3) define constraints for the optimization decisions, wherein the constraints
   include hard constraints and soft constraints; (4) determine one or more algorithms, wherein
   the algorithms include basic algorithms and along one or more extensions to handle soft
                                                  - 13 -

   constraints; (5) calculate optimal decisions using the one or more algorithms to maximize
   and/or minimize one or more objectives based on the input data, one or more soft constraint
   and one or more hard constraint; and (6) generate output data based on decision data. Then,
   the LNG ship schedule or updated ADP may be utilized to operate the LNG supply
 5 operations.
   [0055]       For the LNG ship scheduling (e.g. ADP), the data used in the modeling may
   include one or more of contract specification; production and re-gasification location
   specifications rates; ship specifications; ship compatibilities with contracts, production and
   re-gas terminals and/or berths; dry-dock requirements; storage tank requirements; berth
10 specifications; berth and storage maintenance; loans and/or transfers of LNG among co
   located joint ventures; LNG grades; optionality opportunities including in-charter, out-charter
   and/or diversion; price projections; and potential ship routes. The output data may include
   ship travel details (e.g., time, route, fuel, speed, "state" (e.g., warm or cold)); cargo size;
   LNG quality; storage-berth combination which a cargo is served; ship status as in-chartered
15 or out-chartered; and planned dry-dock for the ship. The constraints may include one or more
   of ship     travel  restrictions based   on arrival   and departure    times,  speed,  distance,
   loading/unloading operations; compatibility requirements between different parties, storage
   tanks, berths, contracts, cargo sizes; limits on loans between different parties; storage
   restrictions; berth utilization; contractual requirements (quantity, time); and/or maintenance
20 requirements. The objectives may include one or more of maximize social interest; minimize
   shipping costs; maximize profitability; and/or maximize shareholder profitability (e.g.,
   multiple different parties involved in operations).
   [0056]       The basic algorithms may include different algorithms that may be utilized in the
   system. As an example, the algorithms may be configured to be a five-stage method. The five
25 stage method may include (i) stage 1: generating feasible solution to the feasibility model; (ii)
   stage 2: generating optimal solution to feasibility model; (iii) stage 3: reducing in-chartered
   ships; (iv) stage 4: pursuing out-charter opportunity; and (v) stage 5: finding optimal solution
   to optimality model. The feasibility model, in-charter model, out-charter model and
   optimality model is based on the LNG ship scheduling model or is a variant of the LNG ship
30 scheduling model (e.g., an embodiment of the ADP model). These models are a less complex
   models that are computational more efficient than the LNG ship scheduling model.
   [0057]       The extensions configured to handle soft constraints may include a soft ratability
   constraint method and a soft inventory constraint method. The soft ratability constraint
                                                  -14  -

   method may include different approaches, such as minimizing violations after stage 5 of the
   five-stage method and/or minimizing violations after stage 2 of the five-stage method. The
   soft inventory constraint method may also include different approaches, such as minimizing
   violations after stage 5 of the five-stage method and/or minimizing violations after stage 2 of
 5 the five-stage method.
   [0058]       Beneficially, the present techniques provide an annual development plan that
   integrates each of the components, such as multiple production facilities, multiple storage
   facilities, multiple berths both in production and regas side, multiple LNG grades, multiple
   ships in varying capacities and fuel options, multiple contracts/delivery locations, mass
10 balance calculations (production, inventory, and potential losses), full, partial and co-loads,
   planned dry-dock schedules, ratability windows, complex delivery windows, and fiscal
   calculations. Further, the present techniques may be utilized to optimize real-sized problems
   in a time frame necessary for practical business purposes. The present techniques may be
   utilized to handle soft constraints that are effective in finding feasible solutions easier or
15 improving economics. As another enhancement, the present techniques may provide updates
   to ship schedules based on operational disruption events, or on updated information that is
   different from the assumptions that were used for developing the plan, and/or on customer
   requests for delivery changes, and/or on new market opportunities. This functionality may be
   utilized to enhance the 90-day delivery schedules (e.g., the 90-day plan), schedule repair,
20 and/or ADP negotiation. Also, the present techniques may be configured to re-optimize
   schedules such that the deviations from the initial plan can be minimized, in addition to
   maximizing economics.
   [0059]       As an example, Figure 1B is a flow chart 150 of a LNG supply chain design
   optimization. In this flow chart 150, the generation and use of the ADP is described in blocks
25 152 to 156, while the generation and use of the 90-day plan is described in blocks 158 to 164.
   [0060]       With regard to the LNG ship scheduling model (e.g., ADP model), input data on
   LNG shipping operations is obtained in block 152. This input data may include the input data
   described in blocks 104 to 110 of Figure 1A. From this input data, an ADP may be generated
   from the LNG ship scheduling model, as shown in block 154. The generation of the LNG
30 ship schedule model is described further below with reference to Figures 2A to 3 and 13. The
   ADP may be iterated through various versions based on changes and/or discussions with third
   parties. The ADP may be displayed and used for LNG shipping operations as shown in block
                                                 - 15 -

   156. The display of the ADP may be via a computer display, and use may involve using the
   ADP for LNG shipping operations.
   [0061]      With regard to the LNG ship re-scheduling model (e.g., 90-day scheduling,
   schedule repair, ADP negotiation), input data on LNG shipping operations may be obtained
 5 in block 161. This input data may include the input data described in blocks 104 to 110 of
   Figure 1A or other data, as noted further below. A baseline schedule may also be obtained in
   block 160. The baseline schedule can be user-defined based on the ADP produced by the
   LNG ship scheduling model, as discussed in block 154, or the updated plan produced by the
   LNG ship rescheduling model, as discussed in block 158. At block 158, a 90-day plan may be
10 generated from the LNG ship re-scheduling model. The generation of the 90-day plan may
   include obtaining input data on LNG shipping operations, as discussed in block 161, and/or
   obtaining an LNG operation baseline schedule, as shown in block 160. The LNG ship re
   scheduling model is described further below with reference to Figures 4 to 13. The 90-day
   plan may be displayed and used for LNG shipping operations, as shown in block 162. The
15 display of the 90-day plan may be via a computer display, and use may involve using the 90
   day plan for LNG shipping operations. Further, as shown in block 164, updated information
   may be obtained. This updated information may be utilized to construct the baseline schedule
   for the next ship schedule updating. The present techniques are explained further below in
   Figures 2A to 13.
20 LNG Ship Scheduling Optimization Model
   [0062]      As noted above, the present techniques integrate LNG ship schedule optimization
   and inventory management. The LNG shipping optimization model uses various inputs, such
   as production schedule of different grades of LNG, inventory limitations, ship fleet details
   and ship-terminal compatibility, contract details including destinations, quantity, pricing,
25 ratability requirements. Then, optimization algorithms are used to optimize shipping
   decisions (e.g., which ship to deliver which cargo to a certain destination). The output (e.g.,
   decisions) is based on the optimal solution to an objective function, which may include
   maximizing social economics and/or minimizing shipping cost.
   [0063]      Figure 2A is a flow chart 200 of an ADP optimization method according to an
30 exemplary embodiment of the present techniques. In this diagram 200, various steps may be
   performed to create an ADP based on an LNG ship scheduling model. At block 202, input
   data associated with LNG shipping operations is obtained to for use in a LNG ship
   scheduling model. The input data may include data associated with the long-term planning
                                                - 16 -

   operations. In addition, the input data may be categorized as: production data at one or more
   liquefaction terminals, facility management data at production terminals, customer requests,
   customer terminal data, market conditions, contracts and/or shipping data. Production data
   may include data relating one or more of: the types or grades of LNG produced and their heat
 5 content; production rates of one or more types or grades of LNG; production unit
   maintenance schedules and associated flexibility in scheduling the maintenance. Facility
   management data may include data relating one or more of: the number of berths available
   for loading; storage capacity for each type or grade of LNG; connection between berth and
   storage unit; and berth maintenance schedules and their associated flexibility. Customer
10 requests may include input data relating to one or more of the ratability of deliveries; the time
   window and cargo sizes for specific deliveries; the speeds that the ships should take; and the
   fuel modes that the ships should use. Customer terminal data may include input data relating
   to one or more of: storage capacities for each type or grade of LNG; the number of berths
   available for unloading; regasification rate schedules; and distances from each liquefaction
15 terminal. Market conditions may include input data relating to one or more of: the outlook for
   index prices to be used in pricing formula; the outlook for future market opportunities such as
   spot sales; and futures and forward contract prices. Contracts may include input data relating
   to one or more of: terminals where LNG can be delivered; annual delivery targets for each
   customer terminal; ratability of delivery, which is the timing and spacing of delivery of
20 portions of an agreed-upon amount of LNG; gas quality, type, or grade to be delivered;
   pricing formulas; diversion flexibility; and other types of flexibility such as downflex (an
   option whereby the buyer may request a decreased quantity of LNG). Contracts may also
   include input data relating to the length of contract to which one or more LNG customers are
   bound. For example, an LNG customer may be bound by a long-term contract, such as sales
25 and purchase agreements or a production sharing contracts. Shipping data may include input
   data relating to one or more of: a list of leased DES (delivered ex ship), CIF (cost, insurance
   and freight), CFR (cost and freight) and available spot ships; a list of FOB (freight on board)
   ships for each customer, the ships typically being owned or leased by the customer; ship
   capacities; restrictions on what ship can load/unload at what terminal; maintenance schedules
30 for ships; cost structures for ships; boil-off and heel calculations for each ship, including an
   optimal heel amount upon discharge at a regasification terminal; range of ship speeds and
   associated cost profile; and/or set of allowed fuels. Further, the input data may include one or
   more of contract specification; production and re-gasification location specifications rates;
                                                  - 17 -

   ship specifications; ship compatibilities with contracts, production and re-gas terminals
   and/or berths; dry-dock requirements; storage tank requirements; berth specifications; berth
   and storage maintenance; loans and/or transfers of LNG among co-located joint ventures;
   LNG grades; optionality opportunities including in-charter, out-charter and/or diversion;
 5 price projections; and potential ship routes.
   [0064]       At block 204, objectives for the LNG shipping operations are determined. The
   objectives may be determined by the user or system to provide certain outputs. The objectives
   may include one or more of maximize social interest; minimize shipping costs; maximize
   profitability; and/or maximize shareholder profitability (e.g., multiple different parties
10 involved in operations).
   [0065]       Then, at block 206, constraints for the optimization decisions are defined. The
   constraints may include hard constraints and soft constraints. The constraints may include
   one or more of ship travel restrictions based on arrival and departure times, speed, distance,
   loading/unloading operations; compatibility requirements between different parties, storage
15 tanks, berths, contracts, cargo sizes; limits on loans between different parties (e.g., JVs);
   storage restrictions; berth utilization; contractual requirements (quantity, time); and/or
   maintenance requirements.
   [0066]       At block 208, one or more algorithms are determined. The algorithms may include
   basic algorithms and along one or more extensions to handle soft constraints. The basic
20 algorithms may include different algorithms that may be utilized in the system. As an
   example, the algorithms may be configured to be a five-stage method. The five stage method
   may include (i) stage 1: generating feasible solution to the feasibility model; (ii) stage 2:
   generating optimal solution to feasibility model; (iii) stage 3: reducing in-chartered ships; (iv)
   stage 4: pursuing out-charter opportunity; and (v) stage 5: finding optimal solution to
25 optimality model.
   [0067]       Once the algorithms, constraints and objectives are determined, optimal decisions
   are calculated, as shown in block 210. The calculation of optimal decisions may include using
   the one or more algorithms to maximize and/or minimize one or more objectives based on the
   input data, one or more constraint that may be confirguable as a soft or hard constrant (e.g.,
30 turned into a soft constraint or maintained as a hard constraint). This may be subject to a
   model including input data, one or more constraint that may be adjusted based on the various
   settings. The extensions is configured to handle soft constraints may include a soft ratability
   constraint method and a soft inventory constraint method. The soft ratability constraint
                                                 - 18 -

   method may include different approaches, such as minimizing violations after stage 5 of the
   five-stage method and/or minimizing violations after stage 2 of the five-stage method. The
   soft inventory constraint method may also include different approaches, such as minimizing
   violations after stage 5 of the five-stage method and/or minimizing violations after stage 2 of
 5 the five-stage method.
    [0068]      Once calculated, the optimal decisions are provided as output data, as shown in
   block 212. The output data may include ship travel details (e.g., time, route, fuel, speed,
   "state" (e.g., warm or cold)); cargo size; LNG quality; storage-berth combination which a
   cargo is served; ship status as in-chartered or out-chartered; and planned dry-dock for the
10 ship.
    [0069]      Then, the output is utilized for LNG operations, as shown in block 214. The use of
   the output may include updating the ADP or other scheduling plan, adjusting may be utilized
   to operate the LNG supply operations. That is, the decision variables are used by the user to
   manage and/or adjust LNG shipping operations.
15  [0070]     As noted above, the LNG ship scheduling model may include various types of
   input data, constraints, and/or objectives. The LNG ship scheduling model may be a
   mathematical model that involves a collection of independent decision variables, dependent
   (auxiliary) variables, and constraints specified by a data input instance. Decision variables
   may be manipulated by the solution algorithm toward the optimal value of an objective
20 function (e.g. to find optimal decisions). The final solution is assumed to satisfy the
   associated constraints and/or limits.
    [0071]     As an example, the LNG ship scheduling model may include an initial state of the
   inventories, availability of ships, projected production profiles, contractual requirements,
   such as target quantity and/or quality; and schedules cargos in varying sizes to ships such that
25 an objective, such as social economics, is optimized. The LNG ship scheduling model can be
   used for generating an initial annual delivery plan (ADP). In addition, the model can be used
   to analyze the impact of various business decisions to the bottom-line economics. One
   specific example may involve reviewing the impact of speeding up (or down) the entire or a
   part of the fleet and also determining whether to out-charter or in-charter a ship.
30  [0072]     As this is a mathematical model, input data for the LNG ship scheduling model
   includes a wide range of data types. Some or all of this data may be required for a specific
   instance. This section presents all the input data and provides further explanation for certain
   sections. As an example, the time horizon may be one of the input data types. The time
                                                  - 19 -

   horizon may include the start date of the planning horizon; length and duration (e.g., a one
   year period, but it may involve shorter and/or longer periods); time discretization, which is
   the smallest unit of time that specifies the frequency of decisions (e.g., 2 days, 1 day, and 1/2
   day). The time discretization is useful because the time calculations are based on discrete
 5 units of time. Fine discretization of time increases the complexity of the calculations by
   increasing the size and volume of computations, while course discretization may not provide
   realistic schedules as it is a simplified view of the problem. The time discretization is
   assumed to uniform throughout the planning horizon.
   [0073]       Due to the time discretization, rounding of various time-based data may be
10 performed. The rounding rules employed may involve an internal parameter, such as X. Any
   time-based parameter or data may be rounded down to the nearest integer number of time
   units, if the fraction is less than or equal to X, and rounded up to the next largest integer
   number of time units, if fraction is greater than X. As a specific example, if X is equal (=) to
   0.3 with discrete time units of one day, then a value of 1.25 days is rounded down to 1 day
15 and 4.6 days is rounded up to 5 days. Further, some data may be the sum of multiple data
   entries (e.g., input data) and then the sum is rounded up or down. As such, for the discrete
   time units greater than a day, the data may be aggregated. For discrete time units less than a
   day, daily data will be divided evenly. Price data is simply multiplied or reduced based on
   time granularity (e.g. half day units have same price where price is given daily). Further, to
20 accommodate multi-time period operations, such as loading and unloading, the quantity
   loaded or unloaded per day may involve an approximation. The load or unload quantity may
   be spread out evenly across the number of time units associated with loading and/or
   unloading and post-loading and/or unloading activities. Time unit rounding rules may be used
   to calculate that number of time units.
25 [0074]      Another data type that may be utilized with the LNG ship scheduling model is
   ship specification data. The ship specification data may be associated with each ship in the
   fleet. The ship specification data may include ship type; owner; capacity; cargo sizes; fuel
   options; fuel (diesel) usage; daily boil-off rates; minimum SSD MCR coefficient; minimum
   DFD MCR coefficient; heel volume; fuel usage at port and canal; speed; fixed cost; available
30 time windows; start location and state, end location and state; out-charter option; cool-down
   time(e.g., cool-down time from warm and/or cool-down time from dry); and/or cool down
   loss from warm; cool down loss from dry.
                                                  - 20 -

   [0075]       The ship specification data may include information about the ships' operation.
   This data may include classifications, such as conventional, QFLEX, QMAX). The owner
   may include a designation whether the ship is joint venture ship (JV), which is referred to as
   DES, and if it is a customer ship, it is referred to as FOB. The capacity may include
 5 maximum volume of LNG that a ship can carry and/or ability to load any quality and/or grade
   of LNG. The cargo sizes may include discrete set of loading sizes for ships, which may not
   necessarily be used in all variants of the LNG ship scheduling model, or more specifically an
   ADP model.
   [0076]       Another type of ship specification data is the fuel options. The fuel options may
10 include an indication that ships can operate using different fuels. Further, as LNG is carried
   in very low temperatures, some of the LNG evaporates (i.e. boil-off) during the travel. This is
   a result of the heat difference between the tank and outside and associated efficiencies for the
   storage. Accordingly, some ships may use this boil-off gas as fuel. This makes the fuel
   options and boil-off rates related to each other. The fuel options may include this input to
15 specify which fuel options are compatible with each ship. For example, the input may be
   specified as NBO (natural boil-off) and diesel (e.g., uses the boil-off from LNG tank as fuel
   in addition to the diesel fuel); NBO and forced boil-off (FBO) (e.g., uses natural and forced
   boil-off as fuel); slow steam diesel (SSD) with re-liquefaction (e.g., uses only diesel and
   liquefies the boil-off therefore there is no loss due to boil-off); and/or gas combustion unit
20 (GCU) (e.g., uses only diesel, re-liquefaction is turned-off).
   [0077]       Another type of ship specification data may include other fuel related data types.
   For example, the fuel (diesel) usage may include a cubic function of speed, wherein its
   coefficients are provided or specified by the ship manufacturer. The daily boil-off rates may
   depends on ship, voyage leg (loaded and/or ballast), speed, fuel selection. The minimum slow
25 steam diesel (SSD) maximum continuous rating (MCR) coefficient is the minimum MCR
   coefficient for SSD and steaming ships for calculating fuel use based on speed. The minimum
   DFD MCR coefficient is the minimum MCR coefficient for DFD ships for calculating fuel
   use based on speed. The heel volume involves the ship's requirement of a small amount of
   gas left in the tank in the ballast leg of a ship's trip to keep the tank cool by natural
30 evaporation. Ships are assumed to arrive at a production terminal in cold state. Fuel usage at
   port and canal is the ship's use of some fuel while they are not travelling. An average daily
   fuel consumption rate is assumed.
                                                 - 21 -

    [0078]     The ship specification data may also include ship operation data. For example, the
   speed may include the ship's speed, which is assumed to travel with one of three average
   speeds (e.g., minimum, maximum, and nominal). This type of discretization is useful to
   formulate the LNG ship scheduling model using a time-space network. The travel times are
 5 assumed to be identical during the entire year for this aspect. The LNG ship scheduling
   model can also accommodate speed changes based on seasonal variations, if preferred. As
   specific example, the LNG ship scheduling model may include MCR at a base speed, which
   is the maximum continuous rate at base speed. The fixed cost may include the fixed daily
   cost incurred for each DES ship. This part of the shipping cost is fixed, while the fuel cost
10 depends on the distance and speed. Also, the available time windows are the time period that
   the ship is assumed to be available. The unavailability due to dry-dock may be handled
   separately. The start location and state, end location and state are initial conditions that are set
   for a ship based on last year's expected final situation and business expectations for next
   year. The out-charter option may specify if a DES ship can be considered for a potential out
15 charter opportunity.
    [0079]     Further, the ship specification data may include additional ship operation data. For
   example, the cool-down time is the time needed for the ship to be cooled down before
   loading operation. The cool-down time from warm is the time spent when the ship arrives to
   production without any heel. The cool-down time from dry is the time that is spent when a
20 ship arrives to production from dry-dock. These can be ship, berth, or port specific. Also, the
   cool down loss from warm may include energy cost to cool ship from warm and cool down
   loss from dry which is energy cost to cool ship from dry.
    [0080]     As an example of the ship specification data, the following table describes the
   comparison of boil-off ship and reliquefaction ship, as shown in Table 1. Table 1 summarizes
25 the fuel, boil-off and heel related information, which is shown below:
                                                 Table 1
                                            Boil-Off Ship             Reliquefaction Ship
          LNG -*Regas                 (NBO+FBO) vs.               Reliq vs. GCU (i.e. bum)
                                      (NBO+Fuel Oil)
          Regas -*LNG Cold            (NBO+FBO) vs.               Reliq vs. GCU (i.e. bum)
                                      (NBO+Fuel Oil)
          Regas -- LNG Warm           Fuel Oil (heel out)         Fuel Oil (heel out)
                                                  - 22 -

    [0081]       As shown in this Table 1, the LNG ship scheduling model may include constraints
    that capture the relationship between speed, fuel usage, boil-off, and voyage leg for each ship.
    [0082]       Further still, the input data may include other specifications, such as production
    and regasification specifications and dry-dock specifications. For example, the production
 5  and regasification specifications may include locations, compatibility with each vessel and/or
   port fees. The dry-dock specifications may include planned maintenance (e.g., each ship
    needs to be regularly maintained). The planned maintenance window may be included in the
    input data, which may include the following specifications of locations, compatibility with
    each vessel (e.g., dry-dock location; earliest and/or latest start date, duration, and/or exit
10  status (e.g., cold, warm, dry, and the like)).
    [0083]       Another input data type may include storage tanks located in production and re
    gasification side; berths and storage and berth compatibility. The storage tanks located in
   production and re-gasification side may include location, capacity, initial inventory and/or
    grade. The grade may include storage units at production terminals may only accept a single
15  quality of LNG, while the initial inventory is the amount of LNG available in the beginning
    of planning horizon. The storage unit may be shared by various parties. For example, in a
   joint venture (JV) setting, each party of the JV may send produced LNG to multiple storage
   units. These specifications have to comply with the compatibility between the joint venture
    agreement and storage unit. The berths may include location; berthing/de-berthing time (e.g.,
20  amount of time a ship takes for these operations); and/or load/unload rates (e.g., this rate
    affects the time it takes to complete loading or unloading operations). The rates and times
    may vary based on ship and location. The loading and/or unloading operation(s) may be
   performed at a single berth. The LNG ship scheduling model may or may not consider berth
    limits at re-gasification terminals because a producer has limited visibility or control of
25  operations at re-gasification terminals. The storage and berth compatibility may involve
    specifying storage tanks that can transfer LNG to specific berths. This is typically bound by
    the available infrastructure of the LNG facility. For regas operations, the LNG ship
    scheduling model may be used for managing inventory for approximating ratability, actual
    control, simulating customer behavior.
30  [0084]       The input data type may also include specific LNG information. For example, the
    input data may include loans and/or transfers of LNG among co-located third parties (e.g.,
    JVs). The loans and/or transfers of LNG among co-located third parties may include third
   party supplier and storage unit; destination third party (e.g., JV) and storage unit; quantity
                                                   - 23 -

   and quality of LNG; transfer rate, daily max loan and/or maximum net; and/or time and/or
   date of transaction. Transfers may be assumed to finalize instantaneously within a storage
   unit. Between separate storage units, transfer time may be based on a rate limit between units.
   Transfers should be of the same quality and/or grade. The balance should be restored by the
 5 end of the time horizon and no cost or fees are assumed for the transfers and loans. Also,
   production and regasification rates are another input data type. This data type may include
   daily projections of LNG production of multiple third parties, allocation of a third parties
   production to a storage unit; and/or daily projections of re-gasification of customers. The
   daily production and re-gas rate forecasts are provided as input data. Production changes due
10 to planned maintenance can be adjusted in the input data. Moreover, another input data type
   may include LNG grades. The LNG grades may include energy content: typically specified as
   energy quantity per volume; boil-off equivalent: coefficient to calculate boil off fuel energy
   equivalence to fuel oil amount; and/or density.
   [0085]      As another input data type, contractual data may be used in the LNG ship
15 scheduling model. The contractual data may include contract name; third party involved in
   the agreement (e.g., JVs, which may include single JV customer or multiple location
   assignment per contract); customer, location, type (e.g., DES/FOB), minimum (min), target,
   and/or maximum (max) delivery quantities, start and/or end date of annual delivery window,
   minimum      and/or   maximum       energy   content    of delivered     cargos;  and/or ratability
20 specifications (e.g., monthly, quarterly, etc.). The ratability time windows may be inclusive
   of deliveries within the time range. These may include start date (e.g., beginning of ratability
   period); end date (e.g., end of ratability period); minimum quantity (e.g., minimum quantity
   in period); target quantity (e.g., target quantity in ratability period); and/or maximum quantity
   (e.g., maximum quantity in ratability period).
25 [0086]      The contractual data may also include various other contractual terms, such as fuel
   compatibility; whether or not an in-charter ship may deliver one or more cargos for contract;
   whether or not vessels may return back to supply location warm or cold; maximum additional
   spot sale; diversion notification time; maximum divertible quantity; replacement penalty;
   and/or compatible cargo sizes for each contract. The fuel compatibility may specify if ships
30 serving a contract may use a specific fuel type. The maximum additional spot sale may
   include the maximum amount of spot sales (e.g. due to overproduction) that may be delivered
   to a contract. The diversion notification time may include a notification requirement for
   scheduling a diversion. The max divertible quantity may include the maximum quantity that
                                                   - 24 -

   may be diverted from contract. The replacement penalty may include a fee paid to buyer for
   diverted quantity. The compatible cargo sizes for each contract may specify the cargo sizes
   that may be utilized in the LNG ship scheduling model. Further, a contract can have multiple
   delivery windows, which may or may not overlap and each cargo can have varying grades of
 5 LNG.
   [0087]      As yet another type of input data, time windows and maintenance data may be
   used by the LNG ship scheduling model. For each time window, the delivery location, start
   date, end date, minimum cargoes (e.g., minimum number of deliveries), maximum cargoes
   (e.g., maximum number of deliveries), minimum quantity (e.g., minimum LNG to be
10 delivered within time span), maximum quantity (e.g., maximum LNG to be delivered within
   time span) and/or compatible cargo sizes for each time window. The maintenance data may
   include berth and storage maintenance that may be handled by setting berth and storage
   availability in the LNG ship scheduling model.
   [0088]      The data input may also include optionality opportunities. The optionality
15 opportunities may include in-charter, out-charter and/or short term diversion. The in-charter
   may include a list of ships available for in-chartering. For the in-charter ships, the data may
   include ship specifications; daily costs; available time window; type (e.g., one way - paid
   only for one way voyage and fees, round trip - paid for roundtrip voyage, and/or long term
   paid for long time period without specific voyage info); positioning (e.g., whether or not
20 positioning fee is required and paid); positioning lump sum for fee for positioning; re
   positioning, whether or not re-positioning is required and paid; re-positioning lump sum if fee
   for re-positioning is required; fixed cost (e.g., general fixed costs); and /or daily rate if a daily
   rate is charged. The out-charter may include a list of opportunities for out-chartering. The
   out-charter data may include required ship specifications; revenue; required time window;
25 ship class (e.g., ship class required for out-charter); opportunity type (e.g., one way that is
   paid only for one way voyage and fees; round trip that is paid for roundtrip voyage; and/or
   long term that is paid for long time period without specific voyage information); required
   location (e.g., location to send ship for out-charter, such as first location in one way or
   roundtrip); required date, which is the date to send ship; required state, which is the state of
30 ship to arrive at location; completion location, which is the location of ship when finished,
   such as the last location in one way or roundtrip); completion date that is the date the ship is
   finished and at location; end state, which is the state of ship when returning; positioning (e.g.,
   whether or not positioning fee is required and paid); position lump sum (e.g., fee for
                                                  -25  -

   positioning); re-positioning, which is a determination whether or not re-positioning is
   required and paid; re-positioning lump sum, which is the fee for re-positioning; fixed cost,
   which is the general fixed costs; and/or daily rate, which is the daily rate charged. The short
   term diversion may include required quantity and/or quality; time range; and/or price.
 5 [0089]      As an example of the optionality opportunity data, the following table describes
   the comparison of in-charter between incoming voyage, returning voyage, intermediate
   voyages and number of deliveries, as shown in Table 2. Table 2 summarizes the type and
   voyage details for in-charters, which is shown below:
                                                Table 2
   Type           Incoming Voyage         Returning Voyage    Intermediate        Number of
                                                              Voyages             Deliveries
   OneWay         FixedCost +             0                   DailyRate x          1
                  PosLumpSum                                  numDays
   RoundTrip      FixedCost +             RePosLumpSum        DailyRate x          1
                  PosLumpSum                                  numDays
   LongTerm       FixedCost +             RePosLumpSum        DailyRate x         multiple
                  PosLumpSum                                  numDays
10
   where FixedCost is the fixed cost, PosLumpSum is the positioning lump sum amount,
   RePosLumpSum is the re-positioning lump sum amount, numDays is the number of days.
   [0090]      Price data is yet another input data type. The price data may include price
   projections for each day or other time period. The price data may include market index,
15 which is the list of market indices for which to assign market pricing; fuel, which is the list of
   production locations for which to assign fuel price; spot, which is the list of re-gasification
   terminals for which to assign spot pricing; and/or contract, which is the list of contracts for
   which to assign contract pricing. The prices are assumed to be adjusted (e.g., rolling average,
   or other suitable method) such that price on the day delivered (DES) or picked up (FOB) is
20 the price expected to be received for revenue and royalty calculations, or cost of fuel on a day
   for cost calculations. The fuel price may be independent of location and/or region.
   [0091]      Route data is another input data type. The route data may include the nautical
   distance between production, re-gas, and/or dry-dock locations based on various routes (e.g.,
   both ways). The route data may also include determining whether or not there is a delay due
25 to canal on a route and/or the cost of transit from canal. The route data may also include
                                                 - 26 -

   determining whether or not there is a delay due to bunkering on a route, and/or bunker fee.
   Bunkering is assumed to occur on return voyages to production locations.
   [0092]      Complex time windows are yet another input data type. Some complex deliveries
   may involve more than single seller, port, and/or buyer. For such situations, the LNG ship
 5 scheduling model may include input data that represents the business needs. For example, the
   complex time windows may include various data to model the business needs. This data may
   include contract IDI (e.g., contract for delivery part one); location 1 (e.g., re-gasification
   location for delivery part one); cargo size 1 (e.g., size of delivery part one); LNG gradel
   (e.g., LNG energy quality for delivery part one); earliest start datel (e.g., earliest date for
10 complex delivery part one); latest end date 1 (e.g., last date for complex delivery part one);
   contract ID2 (e.g., contract for delivery part two); location 2 (e.g., re-gasification location for
   delivery part two); cargo size 2 (e.g., size of delivery part two); LNG grade2 (e.g., LNG
   energy quality for delivery part two); earliest start date 2 (e.g., earliest date for complex
   delivery part two); latest end date 2 (e.g., last date for complex delivery part two);minimum
15 deliveries (e.g., minimum number of complex deliveries, such as split and/or co-load, in a
   time window); maximum deliveries (e.g., maximum number of complex deliveries, such as
   split and/or co-load, in time window); and/or fiscal relationship. The fiscal relationship may
   include the fiscal rules that specify tax rate, profit fraction, royalty rate for each delivery.
   Each contract can have complex relationships, correlations across deliveries.
20 [0093]      Following table, Table 3, summarizes some of such complex deliveries.
                                                 Table 3
              Delivery Pattern            Number of           Number of            Number of
                                         JVs / Sellers     Discharge Ports       SPAs / Buyers
                   Default                     1                  1                      1
                Simple split                   1               Multiple                  1
                   Co-load                     I                  I                 Multiple
             Co-load with split                1               Multiple             Multiple
             Complex Co-load               Multiple               1                 Multiple
           Complex Co-load with            Multiple            Multiple             Multiple
                     split
                                                  - 27 -

   [0094]      In this Table 3, combinations of settings for complex windows. For example, one
   or more JVs and/or one or more contractors may be involved with one or more locations.
   [0095]      In addition to the input data, different variables may be utilized by the LNG ship
   scheduling model as well. For example, variables can be classified as two types: decision
 5 variables and dependent (auxiliary) variables. Decision variables are the variables that the
   optimization algorithms are manipulating to achieve a desirable objective value. Decision
   variables specify activities of each ship within the entire time horizon. For example, the
   decision variables may include arrival date to production or re-gas locations; departure date
   and/or time from production/re-gas locations; size of assigned cargo size at each trip and
10 associated LNG quality; storage-berth combination which a cargo is served; travel route; fuel
   type in each leg of a trip; speed in each leg of a trip; departure "state" from regas port (e.g.,
   warm versus cold); whether a ship is in-chartered or out-chartered for a certain period; and/or
   whether a ship goes to dry-dock on a certain day. The dependent (auxiliary) variables are
   dependent on the value of the data input and decision variables. For example, the dependent
15 variables may include storage levels at production and re-gas terminals at each point in time.
   [0096]      Further, constraints may be used by the LNG ship scheduling model to force the
   decisions to comply with some business or physical requirements. In the LNG ship
   scheduling model, constraints should satisfy a feasible solution. As will be explained further
   below, some of these constraints can be considered as soft constraints, which may be able to
20 slightly violate the constraint, while hard constraints are more rigid.
   [0097]      Certain constraints are related to the input data noted above. For example,
   constraints may include compatibility requirements between JV and storage tanks;
   compatibility requirements between storage tanks and berth to ensure loading a single grade
   to a ship; compatibility requirements between contracts and fuel options and/or third party
25 (e.g., JV) transfers being limited to not exceed a daily maximum amount and maximum net
   amount. Other constraints may be included in the LNG ship scheduling model as specific
   constraints. For example, constraints may include setting arrival and departure timing of
   vessels to feasible time periods based on speed, distance, loading/unloading operations;
   inventory mass balance at production and regasification storage units being set to a value
30 greater than or equal to zero; inventory is maintained under storage capacity (e.g., relaxed in
   soft constraints extension); loans between JV's have to be balanced by the end of the time
   horizon; cargo size has to be less than vessel capacity; berths can be utilized by only one
   vessel at a time; total delivery amount and/or quality has to be acceptable based on
                                                  -28-

   contractual requirements; deliveries have to be performed within the delivery time windows
   (e.g., quantity and time window); deliveries follow ratability windows; and/or vessels have to
   be maintained within necessary time windows.
   [0098]       The input data and constraints are utilized based on one or more objectives. That
 5 is, one or more optimization algorithm may be utilized to manipulate the decision variables to
   maximize or minimize one of these potential objective functions (e.g., the value
   determination for an objective). The objective functions may include maximizing social
   interest; minimize shipping costs, maximizing joint venture profitability, maximizing IOC
   shareholder profitability and/or maximizing NOC interest, for example. The maximizing
10 social interest may be the difference between overall revenue coming from deliveries and
   shipping costs due to fixed, fuel, canal, and bunker costs. The minimizing shipping costs may
   be the shipping cost is based on fixed, fuel, canal, and/or bunker costs. The maximizing joint
   venture profitability (e.g., single JV case) may include maximizing profit of a single JV,
   which may apply if there are multiple JV's. The maximize IOC shareholder profitability (e.g.,
15 multiple JV case) may include maximizing profit of an IOC partnering with multiple JV's.
   The maximizing NOC interest (e.g., multiple JV case) may include maximizing interests of
   an NOC having shares in multiple JV's
   [0099]       With the objectives, one or more algorithms may be used in the LNG ship
   scheduling model to provide the optimal decision variables. The algorithm uses several
20 models derived from the optimality model, which is a variation of the LNG ship scheduling
   model. The optimality model contains the variables, constraints and objective function which
   may be one of several alternatives, such as maximization of social economics and/or
   minimization of shipping cost. The LNG ship scheduling model and all derived models may
   be mixed-integer linear models. Details of other models are provided further below.
25 [00100]      The feasibility model is a relaxation of the optimality model. It includes various
   features, such as objective function which minimizes total penalty due to infeasibilities. The
   infeasibilities may include slacks, such as daily loss production, daily stock-out, violation of
   lower bound of contractual requirements, and/or violation of lower bound of time windows
   requirements.
30 [00101]      Another model is the in-charter model. The in-charter model is similar to the
   optimality model except the objective function. This model includes features, such as
   objective function that minimizes cargos delivered by in-chartered ships. It may include all
   variables and constraints of optimality model.
                                                 - 29 -

   [00102]     The out-charter model is yet another model. The out-charter model is similar to
   the optimality model except the objective function. This model includes features, such as
   objective function which minimizes the total number of cargos that a specific ship delivers. It
   may include all variables and constraints of optimality model.
 5 [00103]     The minimize-ratability-violation (MRV) model is a model similar to the
   feasibility model except the objective function and some additional constraints. The objective
   function minimizes the violations due to ratability constraints. Model includes an additional
   constraint to limit the deterioration in optimal objective value such as social economics.
   [00104]     As noted above, the algorithm may include five stages. Figure 2B is a flow chart
10 220 of the five stage algorithm method according to an exemplary embodiment of the present
   techniques. In this diagram 220, various stages may be performed to enhance the LNG ship
   scheduling model. In stage 1, as shown in block 222, a feasible solution is generated using
   feasibility model. In stage 2, as shown in block 224, an optimal solution is generated for the
   feasibility model. The optimal solution has no violation and therefore it is also feasible to the
15 optimality model. In stage 3, as shown in block 226, utilization of in-chartered ships are
   minimized using in-charter model. In stage 4, as shown in block 228, potential out-charter
   opportunities are searched using out-charter model. In stage 5, as shown in block 230, an
   optimal solution is searched for the optimality model. The output of these algothrms is used
   to perform LNG shipping operations, as shown in block 232.
20 [00105]     The stages 3, 4, and 5 may follow the described order or may be rearranged into a
   different order to emphasize a different aspect of optimal solution. For example, if out
   chartering is more beneficial than lessening in-chartering, then stage 4 may be performed
   before stage 3. These various stages are further described below.
   [00106]     In stage 1, as noted in block 222, a feasible solution is generated to the feasibility
25 model. The feasibility model is initialized and then solved by a rolling time algorithm. The
   rolling time algorithm breaks the entire time horizon into a sequence of smaller, but
   overlapping time blocks, and solves each smaller problem sequentially. A feasible solution is
   constructed by solving a sequence of optimization sub problems, each of which corresponds
   to smaller time block. The rolling time algorithm is shown further in Figure 3.
30 [00107]     Figure 3 is flow chart 300 of a rolling time algorithm according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present techniques. In this flow chart 300, a feasibility model is obtained
   in block 302. The model variables are initialized in block 304.
                                                  - 30 -

   [00108]     Then, at block 306, the parameters to construct subproblems may be determined
   based on the difficulty of the problem. These parameters may include the total number of
   time periods that are to be solved in each sub problem, and the total number of time periods
   during which the schedule are fixed after a sub problem is solved.
 5 [00109]     Once the parameters are calculated, subproblems may be constructed and solved
   iteratively starting from the beginning of the planning horizon to the end of the planning
   horizon. For each iteration, a determination is made whether the current starting time period
   of the subproblem t is less than T, as shown in block 308. If t exceeds T (e.g., number of time
   periods in the planning horizon, such as 365 days), then ship delivery schedules have been
10 made for all time periods in the planning horizon, and a feasible solution to the feasibility
   model is obtained, as shown in block 310.
   [00110]     However, if t is less than T (e.g., number of time periods in the planning horizon,
   such as 365 days), the process may be continued by constructing a subproblem whose
   objective function coefficients are adjusted in block 312. The adjustment of the objective
15 function coefficients may be performed to achieve a reasonable scaling for violations. For
   example, the scaling may include penalty rate for cargo violation of 250; penalty rate for
   quantity violation of 4; and penalty rate for volume violation on time t. Then, the penalty
   rates may be adjusted during the algorithm.
   [00111]     Once the objective function coefficients are adjusted, sub problem may be created,
20 as shown in block 314. The sub problem is created by populating variables, parameters and
   constraints. Then in block 316, the solver configuration may be adjusted. The solver
   adjustment may include, but are not limited to, node limits, time limits and optimality
   tolerance. At block 318, the sub problem is solved. The solving the sub problem may include
   using different stopping criteria based on the distance between the current time periods and
25 the end of the time horizon.
   [00112]     Once the sub problem is solved, problem settings may be updated, including the
   ship schedules for some specific time periods, and the starting time period of the next
   potential subproblem, as shown in block 320. Then, the update is provided to block 308 to
   determine whether the process should be reiterated or the feasible solution to the feasibility
30 model is determined, as shown in block 310.
   [00113]     In stage 2, the optimal solution to feasibility model is generated. This may involve
   the algorithm performing a sequence of local searches until the objective function value of
   the feasibility model reaches zero. The sequence of local searches may include two rounds.
                                                  -31 -

   During the first round, one-direction search, k-day-flexibility-time-window search, sorted
   one-ship search and sorted two-ship search are performed sequentially. If the objective
   function value is positive after the first round, it may be the result of the local search getting
   stuck in a local optimal solution or infeasibility of the optimality model. In case the algorithm
 5 cannot find a solution with zero infeasibility in the first round, a second round is performed.
   The second round may include performing a time-window search, sorted one-ship search and
   sorted two-ship search. If the objective function value is still positive, it is very likely that the
   optimality problem is infeasible.
   [00114]     As noted above, the local searches here may include a one-direction search, a k
10 day-flexibility-time-window search, a sorted one-ship search, a sorted two-ship search, and a
   time-window search. The one-direction search may include solving feasibility subproblems
   iteratively in which, loading and unloading arcs are fixed to their current values alternatively
   while all other arcs are left as free variables. The algorithm is terminated when the objective
   function value reaches zero or cannot be improved after a specified number of iterations (e.g.,
15 number of subproblems may be created in this neighborhood structure). The k-day-flexibility
   time-window search may also be performed. For this search, each ship is given flexibility to
   leave several days earlier or later for a given existing schedule. The number of days that each
   ship is allowed to advance or delay may take various values. A typical value used in practice
   is one day. In the network traveling and waiting arcs for each ship within search time window
20 are left as free variables while all other arcs are fixed to their current value. The algorithm
   optimizes feasibility model for each ship and the algorithm is terminated when the objective
   function value reaches zero or cannot be improved. The sorted one-ship search may also be
   performed. For this search, the schedule for each ship is optimized while schedules for other
   ships are fixed to a given existing schedule. In the network, the arcs related to one ship are set
25 free while others are fixed to their current values. The algorithm optimizes feasibility model
   and is terminated when the objective function value reaches zero or cannot be improved after
   a specified number of iterations (e.g., the total number of ships). The sequence of ships to
   optimize depends on the solution quality associated with each ship. Typically, higher level of
   violation a ship has in its schedule; there is more chance to improve its schedule. Therefore,
30 the ships are sorted according to their violation degree in non-increasing order at the
   beginning of the algorithm. After each round of local search, the order of ships is updated
   based on the new schedule. The sorted two-ship search may also be performed. For the sorted
   two-ship search, schedules for two ships are optimized simultaneously, while schedules for
                                                  - 32 -

   other ships are fixed to a given existing schedule. In the network, arcs for two ships are left as
   free variables while all other arcs are fixed to their current values. The algorithm optimizes
   feasibility model and is terminated when the objective function value reaches zero or cannot
   be improved after a specified number of iterations (e.g., the total number of ship pairs).
 5 Similar as the one-ship search, the ship pairs are prioritized in non-increasing order based on
   the total violation. After each round of local search, the order of pairs is updated based on the
   new schedule. The time-window search may also be performed. Time-window search in this
   stage is similar to the rolling time window search in stage 1. This search may optimize all
   ship schedules for shorter time blocks sequentially, while fixing the schedule outside of the
10 time block. The parameters may also be defined to determine the number of periods solved in
   a subproblem and the number of time periods where the ship schedule will be fixed. The
   algorithm optimizes feasibility model and is terminated when the objective function value
   reaches zero or cannot be improved after a specified number of iterations (e.g., the total
   number of time windows which can be constructed during one planning horizon).
15 [00115]     In stage 3, the in-chartered ships may be reduced. Reducing the usage of in
   chartered ships may have a beneficial impact on the economics. This stage of the algorithm
   seeks potential improvements in the solution be reducing in-chartered ships, while
   maintaining the delivery plans within acceptable limits. This stage minimizes the usage of in
   chartered ships one by one, each of which is accomplished in three steps. The first step
20 involves the selection of the next in-chartered ship which is more likely to be idled compared
   to other in-charters. In this step, all in-chartered ships may be sorted based on the number of
   cargos that it carries. The in-chartered ship that carries the fewest cargos may be selected
   because it may be easier to idle such a ship by switching fewer cargos to other ships. The
   second step tries to use sorted two-ships local searches to totally idle the selected in-chartered
25 ship by shifting/swapping cargos. Similar to the operation in stage 2, schedules for two ships,
   the selected in-charter and another ship that may take over cargos from the selected in
   chartered ship are optimized simultaneously, while maintaining other ships fixed. The only
   difference from the step in stage 2 and this step is that the in-charter model is used where the
   objective is to minimize the number of cargos that the selected in-chartered ship carries. The
30 algorithm optimizes in-charter model and is terminated when the objective function value
   reaches zero, is below a threshold or after a specified number of iterations (e.g., the total
   number of ships that may take over cargos from the selected in-chartered ship). Then, the
   time window search is performed in the third step. Similar to the step in stage 2, this search
                                                   - 33 -

   optimized ship schedules for shorter time blocks sequentially, while fixing the schedule
   outside of the time block. There are two differences between the step in stage 2 and this step.
   One difference is that, the time windows is constructed around the period when the in
   chartered ship has cargo delivery; and the other is that in-charter model is used with the
 5 objective to minimize the number of cargos for the selected in-chartered ship.
   [00116]      In stage 4, out-charter opportunities are pursued. Out-chartering a ship has a
   beneficial impact on the economics as long as it does not affect the delivery plans. Given a
   feasible schedule for the optimality problem, this stage tries to maximize the number of ships
   to be out-chartered. This stage of the algorithm investigates out-chartering eligible ships one
10 by one by using three steps. In the first step, all ships, which are eligible for out-charter
   opportunity may be sorted based on the number of cargos. The ship carrying fewest cargos
   may be selected since it may be easier to switch fewer cargos to other ships. Then, in the
   second step, local searches are used to totally idle the selected ship by shifting/swapping
   cargos. These searches may include the sorted two-ship search and the time-window search
15 similar to the steps in stage 3. Instead of the in-charter model used in stage 3, out-charter
   model is used to minimize the total number of carrying cargos for the selected ship. In the
   third step, the assignments are finalized between the idled ships and out-charter opportunities.
   Note that this part of the algorithm is specifically designed for pursuing out-charter
   opportunities that require a ship to be idle for the entire time horizon. Shorter term
20 opportunities can be materialized in stage 5.
   [00117]      In stage 5, optimal solution is determined for the optimality model. The algorithm
   may perform a sequence of local searches until the objective function value of the optimality
   model is within a threshold, or does not improve for a specified number of iterations. The
   local searches include time-windows search, one-ship, and two-ship search, which are
25 discussed below.
   [00118]      The time-windows search may be similar to the rolling time algorithm in stage 1.
   This search may optimize all ship schedules for shorter time blocks sequentially, while fixing
   the schedule outside of the time block. The parameters may include number of time periods
   solved in the sub problem, and number of time periods fixed after the sub problem is solved.
30 [00119]      Further, the one-ship search and the two-ship searches may be performed similar
   to the algorithm in stage 2, which is noted above, with the exception that this local search is
   applied to the optimality problem.
                                                  - 34 -

   [00120]      With regard to the soft constraint extensions to LNG ship scheduling model, a
   feasible solution for the LNG ship scheduling model (e.g., optimality model) satisfies all the
   constraints. The benefit of satisfying feasibility is not the same for each of the constraints.
   While some of the constraints need to be satisfied due to the contractual or physical capacity
 5 restrictions (e.g. inventory and/or production), others, such as ratability constraints, present
   users' or customers' preferences and can be slightly violated. Such soft constraints may
   enhance the solution algorithm. That is, soft constraints may be applied either because it is
   difficult to find a feasible solution when hard constraints are used (e.g., infeasible or time
   consuming) or because economics improvement is restricted due to burdensome hard
10 constraints. Accordingly, soft ratability constraints are designed to facilitate limited flexibility
   for feasibility and economics; while soft inventory levels are designed for feasibility.
   [00121]      As an example, the soft constraints may be utilized to enhance the solution
   algorithm. In particular, the soft constraints may enhance solutions for situations where it is
   difficult and/or impossible to find a feasible solution due to hard constraints. These situations
15 may involve those having infeasible solutions and/or very few feasible solutions (e.g.,
   performance of algorithm may not complete within an acceptable time period). Other
   situations may involve those where the economics deteriorate drastically due to restrictions
   by hard constraints. Specifically, relaxing some of strict ratability constraints may allow some
   deliveries to be made a day early or late. This may not cause any problem for the LNG
20 operations and may create additional value.
   [00122]      To provide advantages for this flexibility to enhance the algorithm's performance,
   the LNG ship scheduling model may include soft constraints, such as soft ratability
   constraints and/or soft inventory constraints. The soft ratability constraints may include
   ratability constraints that represent users' or customers' preferences. These may guide the
25 LNG ship scheduling model to make certain deliveries in a desired fashion, but can be
   slightly violated (e.g., adjusted to have a larger tolerance range) without creating any
   problems for the LNG shipping operations. The soft inventory constraints may include
   shipping and production disruptions that lead to changes in projected inventory levels.
   Therefore, some of the physical inventory restrictions may not have to be enforced strictly for
30 the entire year. Imposing such hard inventory constraints for the entire planning horizon may
   unduly restrict the solution space. As shown in block 242, the algorithm may be automated to
   identify constraints that can be modeled as soft constraints.
                                                  - 35 -

   [00123]      With regard to soft ratability constraints, each customer has a specific preference
   for deliveries throughout the year. For example, the customer may prefer the deliveries to be
   evenly distributed throughout the year. Optimality model includes constraints for ratability
   windows      for each     contract, which     enforce    a proportional  shipment to a    certain
 5 location/contract throughout the year.
   [00124]      Various mechanisms may be utilized to implement ratability windows in the LNG
   ship scheduling model. As an example, the ratability constraints may include monthly; bi
   monthly, bi-monthly with one month overlap; quarterly; quarterly with one month overlap;
   quarterly with two month overlap. Further, the upper and lower bound quantity for each
10 ratability window can be generated in various manners. As an example, two different logics,
   based on the variety of vessels serving a specific contract/location, and one logic based on
   aggregation is described below. If the size of ships serving a location is close to each other,
   then the following logic for each contract may be implemented:
   TargetQuantity(tw)     = TargetMMBTU / NofRatabilityWindows
15 avgTargetNOfDeliveries(tw)       = TargetQuantity(tw)/(AvgShipSize * EnergyContent)
   minTargetNumberOfDeliveries(tw)         = max(O,floor(avgTargetNOfDeliveries(tw))-1)
   maxTargetNumberOfDeliveries(tw)         =  ceiling(avgTargetNOfDeliveries(tw))
   minQuantity(tw)=minTargetNumberOfDeliveries(tw)*minshipsize(c)*EnergyContent
   maxQuantity(tw)=maxTargetNumberOfDeliveries(tw)*maxshipsize(c)*EnergyContent
20 where TargetMMBTU is the target annual delivery quantity from contractual obligations;
   minshipsize, maxshipsize, AvgShipSize: min, max, average size of ships which can serve to a
   specific contract; minQuantity, maxQuantity, TargetQuantity: min, max, target quantity of
   LNG       to    be    delivered    in    a    time      window;    minTargetNumberOfDeliveries,
   maxTargetNumberOfDeliveries;          avgTargetNOfDeliveries: min, max, average number of
25 deliveries for a ratability window; EnergyContent: energy content of LNG; TargetMMBTU:
   target amount of LNG to deliver in MMBTU units; and NofRatabilityWindows: number of
   ratability windows in one year. The logic uses the similar ships are similar than it is enough
   to provide one to two delivery flexibility for each time window.
   [00125]      If the size of ships serving a location are different from each other (above a
30 threshold), then the following logic may be implemented:
   TargetQuantity(tw)     = TargetMMBTU / NofRatabilityWindows
   minQuantity(tw)= max(O, TargetQuantity(tw) - downflex)
   maxQuantity(tw)= TargetQuantity(tw) + upflex;
                                                    - 36 -

   , where downflex and upflex are defined as:
   Downflex    = maxshipsize  * EnergyContent
   Upflex   = maxshipsize * EnergyContent
   [00126]      Another logic is to aggregate (e.g., sum) the monthly upper and lower bounds of
 5 two months and generate upper and lower bounds for bi-monthly; and similarly summing
   bounds of three months for calculating quarterly ratability windows. Using aggregate
   ratability windows creates a relaxation of the original model.
   [00127]      In other embodiments, it may be preferred to have deliveries to be made roughly
   even without satisfying the ratability constraints exactly. Accordingly, this type of business
10 constraints may be represented using soft constraints. While multiple methods may be
   utilized to incorporate the soft ratability constraints into the current algorithm, two alternative
   approaches are described below, which include the minimize ratability after stage 5 and
   minimize ratability after Stage 2.
   [00128]      In the proposed algorithms, two or more sets of ratability restrictions may be used
15 (e.g., original and looser (or aggregate)). The original constraints are typically created based
   on business needs. For instance if a customer requests deliveries to be roughly equal in each
   month, then similar lower and upper bounds on deliveries are provided for each month. The
   proposed algorithm may be automated to decide which type of aggregation to use based on
   model inputs such as the number of vessels, number of contracts, number of deliveries, and
20 original ratability requirements.
   [00129]      With regard to the minimize ratability violation after stage 5 method, the
   algorithm first decides on the aggregate ratability constraints based on model inputs. Stages 1
   to 5 is applied with ratability constraints which are looser (or aggregate) than original model.
   For instance, if the original model has monthly ratability windows, then aggregate model may
25 have quarterly ratability windows. Aggregate (Quarterly) may be generated in several
   potential approaches provided above. The objective of the aggregate ratability is to lessen
   solution time without compromising the quality of optimal solution. At the end of stage 5,
   algorithm finds a feasible solution to the model with aggregate ratability windows. This
   solution may or may not be feasible with respect to the original ratability (e.g., monthly).
30 Then, in a MRV stage (Minimize Ratability Violation), the algorithm minimizes ratability
   violations with respect to the original ratability windows. The model may also include an
   additional constraint, which limits deterioration in the objective function value to a range
   within some tolerance around the optimal solution found in stage 5. The MRV stage, similar
                                                  - 37  -

   to stage 2, may be solved using one-direction search, time-window search, sorted one-ship
   search, and sorted two-ship search.
   [00130]     As an example, the method may include the following stages. In stage 1, the
   feasible solution to feasibility model is generated using aggregate ratability windows. Then,
 5 in stage 2, the optimal solution to feasibility model is generated using aggregate ratability
   windows. At stage 3, the in-charter usage is reduced using the aggregate ratability windows.
   Then, at stage 4, the out-charter opportunities are pursued using the aggregate ratability
   windows. At stage 5, optimal solution to optimality model is calculated using the aggregate
   ratability windows. Then, following stage 5, ratability violation with respect to original
10 ratability windows are calculated. Following this calculation, the minimize ratability violation
   using the original ratability windows is calculated in the MRV stage.
   [00131]     If aggregate ratability windows are based on quarters, and original ratability
   windows are based on months. Then, stages 1 to 5 optimize using quarterly ratability
   windows and produce an optimal solution based on quarterly ratability windows. The
15 quarterly ratability solution is then evaluated based on monthly ratability windows. If there is
   any violation, the MRV stage minimizes the resulting violations, while sustaining the
   economics within a certain level same as or close to the maximized economics achieved in
   stage 5.With regard to the minimize ratability violation after stage 2 method, this method is
   similar to the method above, but the order is adjusted. First algorithm determines the
20 aggregate ratability constraints based on model inputs. Stages 1 and 2 use the aggregate
   ratability windows, and generate a feasible solution. Stage MRV takes the feasible solution,
   which is based on aggregate ratability, and minimizes violations with respect to the original
   ratability windows. The stage MRV may or may not eliminate each of the ratability
   violations. After the stage MRV, stages 3 to 5 follow to further improve the solution.
25 [00132]     As an example, the method may include the following stages. In stage 1, feasible
   solution to feasibility model is generated using the aggregate ratability windows. In stage 2,
   the optimal solution to feasibility model is generated using the aggregate ratability windows.
   Then, the ratability violations with respect to original ratability windows are calculated.
   Following this calculation, the minimal ratability violation is determined in the original
30 ratability windows. Then, in stage 3, in-charter usage is reduced using the original ratability
   windows. In stage 4, out-charter opportunities are pursued using the original ratability
   windows. Then, in stage 5, the optimal solution is determined from the optimality model
   using the original ratability windows.
                                                  - 38 -

   [00133]       If the aggregate ratability windows are based on quarters, and original windows
   are based on months, the stages 1 and 2 use quarterly ratability windows. At the end of stage
   2, the algorithm may have a feasible solution based on quarterly ratability windows. This
   solution is then evaluated based on monthly ratability windows and if there is any violation,
 5 the MRV stage minimizes the resulting violations. Then, stages 3 to 5 are performed to
   enhance the solution, while sustaining the violation towards the monthly ratability within a
   pre-specified tolerance.
   [00134]       These two approaches are two exemplary algorithms that may be used to address
   the soft ratability issue. The minimize ratability after stage 5 method is directed to providing
10 the best solution through stages 1 to 5 and then minimize violations as much as possible. In
   the minimize ratability after stage 2 method, the method is directed to feasibility because the
   ratability violations are minimized after stage 2. This approach may help for situations where
   it is difficult to get a feasible solution. After ratability violations are minimized, stages 3 to 5
   are performed to enhance the solution.
15 [00135]      As an example, Figure 2C is a flow chart 240 of the five stage algorithm with soft
   extensions method according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques. The
   reference characters from Figure 2B are included may be referenced as described above. In
   addition to the five stages, the method includes a violation calculation with respect to original
   constraint (e.g., window or range around the constraint), as shown in block 248. The violation
20 may be a ratability violation and the original constraint may be an original ratability window
   or other soft constraint window or range. Further, as shown in block 250, the minimal
   violation is calculated. The violation may be a ratability violation (MRV) for certain
   embodiments.
   [00136]       With regard to soft inventory constraints, LNG ship scheduling models may be
25 optimized during the preparations for next year's delivery plan. Once the ADP is finalized
   and operations start, shipping and production disruptions may lead to changes in projected
   inventory levels. The initial plan may invovle regular adjustments to account for these
   variations. Imposing such hard inventory constraints for the entire planning horizon may
   restrict the solution space more than it is needed. Therefore some of the physical inventory
30 restrictions may not be treated as soft constraints.
   [00137]       Similar to the example for soft ratability constraints, the algorithm can be
   extended to address soft inventory issues. As shown in block 244, the proposed algorithm
   may be automated to decide how to relax the inventory constraints based on model inputs
                                                    - 39 -

   such as the number of vessels, number of contracts, number of deliveries. A relaxed set of
   inventory constraints can be used to find a feasible solution and then the violations can be
   minimized in a manner similar to the method used in the stage MRV, as described for the
   ratability example. In stages 1 and 2, the feasibility model may be used to reduce the penalty
 5 with respect to the relaxed constraints to zero. The solution at the end of stage 2 may still
   have violations in inventory constraints as evaluated when using the original (e.g., tighter)
   bounds. During stages 3 to 5, the algorithm seeks to constrain the violation in inventory
   constraints as evaluated for the tighter bounds such that the violations do not exceed the
   violation obtained at the end of stage 2. The penalty structure for violating the inventory
10 constraints may be set in various manners. There may be multiple techniques of creating
   relaxed inventory constraints. One example is to increase inventory capacity over time such
   that relaxed capacity is always higher than the original inventory levels. The penalties can
   also be differentiated by storage units. Similarly, the relaxed bounds for inventory constraints
   can be generated in various manners. For example, the relaxed bounds may be based on
15 degree of flexibility in re-routing production to other storage facilities, or on degree of
   flexibility in securing additional storage from another entity that shares storage at that
   facility.
   [00138]      With the input data, constraints and objectives, the LNG ship scheduling model
   may be used to predict decision variables. The model, which is a mathematical model, is
20 further described in Appendix A as an ADP model.
   LNG Ship Re-scheuling Optimization System
   [00139]      With regard to -LNG ship re-scheduling (e.g., 90-day plan), the optimization
   system may develop updated LNG loading and delivery schedules based on new planning
   information, and/or in response to a disruption event or customer request or new market
25 opportunity.
   [00140]      The - updated ship schedule may be provided by a re-scheduling optimization
   system by performing analysis of the input data through the use of one or more objectives,
   constraints and algorithms, which may be similar to the discussion above for the ship
   scheduling model. However, the re-scheduling system is intended to be used more frequently
30 concurrently with the updates of LNG shipping operations, disruptions, customer requests
   and/or new market opportunities. This system can be used for 90-day plan development, ship
   schedule repair and ADP negotiation. Further, the algorithm may include different stages,
   such as (i) stage A that recovers feasibility; (ii) stage B that minimizes changes; (iii) stage C
                                                  - 40 -

   that maximizes economics, while sustaining minimum changes; (iv) stage D that -maximizes
   economics, which may induce significant number of changes to the baseline schedule; and/or
   (v) stage E that minimizes changes while sustaining the maximum economics. An example of
   one embodiment of the system for developing 90-day plan is shown in Figure 4.
 5  [00141]    Figure 4 is a block diagram 400 of a LNG ship re-scheduling optimization model
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques. In this diagram 400, the
   input data 404 (e.g., baseline schedule (which may be the ADP or another baseline schedule),
   updated planning assumptions, user preferences, such as the degree of flexibility for various
   changes, historical actuals data (e.g., deliveries, inventory and the like)) is provided to an
10 optimization system 402 to create an updated ship schedule 406. The optimization system
   402 includes a user interface 408, intelligent model preprocessor 418, optimization models
   410 and optimization solution method 412, which each communicate with each other. The
   updated ship schedule 406 is communicated to the user system 414, which is provided to the
   customer system 416.
15  [00142]    This system extracts different information from different scenes accordingly (e.g.,
   new planning information, disruption, new customer request and new opportunity) and use
   them in an intelligent manner to update delivery schedules in a more efficient manner. The
   system includes a suite of optimization models 410 and specifically designed algorithms
   (e.g., optimization solution method), which recover the schedule from disruptions (e.g.,
20 resolve the infeasibility caused by the updated information), minimize changes with respect
   to a baseline schedule, maximize economics within some specified tolerance for changes to
   schedule, evaluate new market opportunities, and minimize changes again while sustaining
   the maximized economics which are achieved after considering the new market opportunities.
    [00143]    The system can be used to develop 90-day delivery schedules (e.g., 90-day plans).
25 The system can also be used to recover delivery schedule from disruptions (e.g., ship
   breakdown, terminal breakdown, etc.). The system can also update the delivery schedules
   beyond the 90-day period to enable analysis around the effects of disruptions and changes
   made in the 90-day period on planned deliveries further out in the future. The system can also
   be used to investigate different market opportunities within 90-days or further out in the
30 future. The system can also be used to experiment the tradeoff between maintaining schedule
   stability and increasing customer satisfaction or pursuing new market opportunities. The
   system can also be used to prioritize changes that are applied to recover schedules. The
   system can also be used in negotiating annual delivery programs. In developing the updated
                                                 - 41 -

   delivery schedules, the system can optimize ship schedules, terminal inventory management,
   LNG production schedules, maintenance schedules, and other shipping decisions, while
   accounting for tradeoffs related to various options         in available shipping, customer
   requirements, price uncertainty, contract flexibility, market conditions, and the like. Other
 5 shipping decisions may include ship fuel selection, ship speed, and/or heel selection for every
   voyage.
   [00144]     Figure 5A is a block diagram 500 of how the system may be implemented for
   updating ship schedules according to an exemplary embodiment of the present techniques.
   This system includes the input data 502, the intelligent model preprocessor 504, the model
10 and algorithm system 506, and the output data 508 with the illustration of how they could
   work together to realize the objective of the present techniques. The input data includes two
   categories: data in one category is the original information used to generate the baseline
   schedule (e.g. annual delivery plan, another baseline plan, etc.) as discussed above, and data
   in the other category represents the new and/or updated information and the new objective
15 requirements. The intelligent model preprocessor 504 translates the updated information and
   business preferences in an intelligent manner that the model and algorithm can use the
   translated information to recover schedules from disruptions or evaluate new market
   opportunities in an efficient manner. Then, the system creates a time-space network model
   (e.g., LNG ship rescheduling model) and applies a suite of specially designed algorithms to
20 solve it based on the specifications of the objectives. The outputs of the system may be used
   not only for ship scheduling, but also for inventory management, optionality utilization,
   and/or maintenance schedules.
   [00145]     A portion of the LNG ship re-scheduling optimization model may utilize one or
   more of the input data associated with the long-term planning modules to provide consistency
25 between the long-term production plan and contractual obligations. The input data 502 may
   be categorized as: production data at one or more liquefaction terminals, facility management
   data at production terminals, customer requests, customer terminal data, market conditions,
   contracts and/or shipping data. Production data may include data relating one or more of: the
   types or grades of LNG produced and their heat content; production rates of one or more
30 types or grades of LNG; production unit maintenance schedules and associated flexibility in
   scheduling the maintenance. Facility management data may include data relating one or more
   of: the number of berths available for loading; storage capacity for each type or grade of
   LNG; connection between berth and storage unit; and berth maintenance schedules and their
                                                - 42  -

   associated flexibility. Customer requests may include input data relating to one or more of the
   ratability of deliveries; the time window and cargo sizes for specific deliveries; the speeds
   that the ships should take; and the fuel modes that the ships should use. Customer terminal
   data may include input data relating to one or more of: storage capacities for each type or
 5 grade of LNG; the number of berths available for unloading; regasification rate schedules;
   and distances from each liquefaction terminal. Market conditions may include input data
   relating to one or more of: the outlook for index prices to be used in pricing formula; the
   outlook for future market opportunities such as spot sales; and futures and forward contract
   prices. Contracts may include input data relating to one or more of: terminals where LNG can
10 be delivered; annual delivery targets for each customer terminal; ratability of delivery, which
   is the timing and spacing of delivery of portions of an agreed-upon amount of LNG; gas
   quality, type, or grade to be delivered; pricing formulas; diversion flexibility; and other types
   of flexibility such as downflex (an option whereby the buyer may request a decreased
   quantity of LNG). Contracts may also include input data relating to the length of contract to
15 which one or more LNG customers are bound. For example, an LNG customer may be bound
   by a long-term contract, such as sales and purchase agreements or a production sharing
   contracts. Shipping data may include input data relating to one or more of: a list of leased
   DES (delivered ex ship), CIF (cost, insurance and freight), CFR (cost and freight) and
   available spot ships; a list of FOB (freight on board) ships for each customer, the ships
20 typically being owned or leased by the customer; ship capacities; restrictions on what ship
   can load/unload at what terminal; maintenance schedules for ships; cost structures for ships;
   boil-off and heel calculations for each ship, including an optimal heel amount upon discharge
   at a regasification terminal; range of ship speeds and associated cost profile; and/or set of
   allowed fuels.
25 [00146]     Further, the input data into the LNG ship rescheduling model may include other
   data, such as time horizon (e.g., start time, end time, and/or time discretization); ship initial
   information (e.g., start time, start location, start heel status, LNG volume on board, grade for
   LNG on board, contract for LNG on board, needs to redirect to another destination location);
   updated planning information towards ships (e.g., daily availability, fuel modes, speed levels,
30 heel options, and/or loading sizes); updated production/regasification profile (e.g., daily
   production rates and/or daily regasification rates); updated inventory profile (e.g., initial
   inventory level at each storage tank and/or inventory capacity for each JV); updated
   maintenance schedule; new in-chartering offers; new out-chartering opportunities; new
                                                   -43  -

    diversion opportunities; new spot market opportunities; new backhaul options; baseline
    schedule including a list of cargos (e.g., delivery contract, delivery location, delivery ship,
    delivery time, and/or delivery quantity); change flexibility for each cargo (e.g., cargo
    divertable/optional, ship change allowed, time change allowed, number of days that it can
 5  advance or delay, and/or quantity change allowed or amount of quantity that can be reduced
    or increased); relative importance of each change; objectives: minimize changes; maximize
    economics; minimize cost, etc.; and/or thresholds towards changes, economics, cost etc.
    [00147]      In addition to the input data, the LNG ship rescheduling model may include
    constraints. Appropriate constraints and specifications are layered onto the LNG ship
10  rescheduling model for conducting various analyses that are specific to problem being
    addressed. The constraints in the LNG ship rescheduling model may be similar to those in the
    LNG ship scheduling model, which is noted above. Further, the core optimization model
   provides the ability to model a supply chain that includes one or more LNG liquefaction
    terminals, multiple customers with long and short-term purchase contracts, and spot LNG
15  markets/buyers. The supply chain also has the capability to include multiple fleets of
    heterogeneous time-chartered ships together with opportunities to in-charter or out-charter
    ships. When dry-docks are required, the model also ensures the ships to take dry-docks within
    specified time windows. The model also provides functionality to model contractual
    flexibilities and market opportunities such as opportunities to divert cargo or backhaul third
20 party cargo on a return voyage. Detailed operational constraints related to liquefaction
    terminals and shipping, contractual obligations and market conditions are included in the
    model.
    [00148]      The input for contracts may consider the possibility of multiple operating entities
    or owners involved in a liquefaction project, and each operating entity or owner may have a
25 joint-venture agreement or other arrangement with the natural gas producer (e.g., national oil
    company or government (NOC)) including fiscal agreements that cover royalties and taxes.
   Another type of contract covered by contracts arises in liquefaction projects with shared
    facilities and infrastructure (such as storage facilities, loading facilities, and ships), in which
    there exist facility sharing agreements and fleet sharing agreements between the different
30 production entities (e.g., joint ventures (JVs)). These agreements may include terms outlining
    volume storage entitlements, lifting entitlements and cost-sharing terms among others.
    Further, sales and deliveries typically are negotiated between a production entity and a
   buying entity, such as a joint venture and a customer. These contracts can be long-term or
                                                  - 44  -

   short-term and include SPAs (Gas Sales and Purchase Agreements) and PSCs (Production
   Sharing Contracts). These agreements typically include terms related to annual volumes,
   ratable delivery requirements, ships required for transport, price and penalties. In any of these
   multiple entity - type contracts or agreements, it is possible that various parties are operating
 5 under different fiscal conditions. For example, two companies may be working with a
   national oil company on a liquefaction project under different joint venture agreements. For
   various reasons those joint venture agreements may have different terms governing the above
   types of subjects. These different terms are factored into the ship scheduling optimization
   model as disclosed herein.
10 [00149]     The system takes as input a baseline schedule, customer preferences regarding
   flexibility in different kinds of changes to the schedule, updated information regarding
   assumptions that are used to build the schedule, and new market opportunities. The system
   develops an updated schedule that minimizes the degree of change with respect to the
   baseline schedule. The system also generates the most economic schedule that does not
15 deviate from the baseline schedule by more than a pre-specified tolerance for changes. The
   system also investigates new market opportunities while minimizing impact on the baseline
   schedule.
   [00150]     In the baseline schedule, a list of planned cargos is specified with the following
   aspects for each cargo: the customer, the destination, the delivery ship, the delivery time and
20 the delivery quantity. All of these aspects can (sometime have to) be changed in the updated
   plan. For example, if a ship is delayed 1 day, the delivery time for some cargos may have to
   be delayed 1 day. As another example, if a ship is broken down, an extra ship may have to be
   in-chartered to cover the cargos which are planned for the broken ship. If the in-charted ship
   has different capacity, the delivery quantity is also changed. As another example, if a
25 destination terminal is shut down, the cargos which are originally planned to be sent to this
   terminal have to be diverted to another destination. As another example, the customer may
   request to send the cargo to another destination with a bigger ship on a different date, and
   therefore multiple aspects of the cargo are changed.
   [00151]     The system provides the user the ability to specify the allowed flexibility in
30 changing different aspects of the schedule. For example, the user may specify whether the
   ship associated with a planned cargo can be changed in the updated plan. As another
   example, the user may specify the amount of time by which the delivery date for a cargo can
   be delayed (or advanced) in the updated schedule. As another example, the user may specify
                                                 - 45 -

   the amount by which the quality of LNG to be loaded or delivered on a planned cargo could
   be changed in the updated schedule. As another example, the user may specify whether or not
   a planned cargo needs to be delivered to the planned customer/location at all. As another
   example, the system provides the user the ability to specify whether or not extra ships could
 5 be in-chartered or out chartered in the updated schedule.
   [00152]     The system provides flexibility for the user to specify the relative importance of
   the different types of changes mentioned above, while minimizing the overall differences
   between the baseline schedule and the updated schedule. For example, the user may specify a
   higher priority for minimizing changes for deliveries to a specific customer, or for
10 minimizing changes to deliveries in the specific period of the calendar. As another example,
   the user may prefer to make a sequence of ship swaps or date changes than to rent extra in
   charters. As yet another example, the user may prefer ship changes instead of delivery date
   changes, or vice versa.
   [00153]     As specified above, the system may also obtain as input the new and/or updated
15 information regarding assumptions that pertain to the forward planning period. These
   assumptions can be different from those that were used to build the baseline schedule. The
   system may provide the user the ability to provide updated information or consider more
   decision options which can only be practical during short-term periods. For example, the user
   can specify the initial status for ships at the beginning of the planning period with different
20 granularities including: the earliest available date, location, heel status, volume on board,
   LNG quality on board and contract information. As another example, the user can specify
   constraints on the daily availability for ships. Some of this information may not have been
   available and/or accurate when the baseline schedule was initially developed. As yet another
   example, the user can update the initial inventory level in terminal storage at the beginning of
25 the planning period which can be different from what was predicted in the baseline schedule.
   In another example, the user can update the projected daily production/regasification rates.
   Also, the user can specify short-term out-chartering opportunities which were not foreseen
   when the baseline schedule was developed. For example, the user may want to move the
   planned dry-docking events from one period to another period in order to ensure ample
30 shipping resource during the periods when the LNG market price is higher according to the
   updated pricing information. Further, the user may want to consider different or multiple fuel
   or speed options in the short-term periods instead of the options used in baseline schedule. As
                                                  - 46 -

   another example, the user may want to adopt different loading strategy including partial
   loading, split and co-loading instead of the strategy used to make a long-term plan, etc.
   [00154]      Some of these information updates, especially those related to changes for ships,
   facilities, production and/or deliveries, often causes infeasibility of the baseline schedule
 5 (e.g., disruptions). As example, if a ship is delayed, it may not be able to complete all
   deliveries on time as planned in the baseline schedule. For example, if a ship is broken down,
   other ships may have to change their schedules or extra ships may have to be in-chartered in
   order to cover the deliveries for the broken ship. As another example, if a destination terminal
   is shut down, all cargos which are planned for this terminal may have to be diverted to other
10 locations. As yet another example, if initial inventory level at a production terminal is much
   higher than what is predicted in the baseline schedule, some cargos may have to be enlarged
   or extra cargos may have to be added in order to consume the extra volume. For example, if
   the daily production rate is higher than what is assumed in the baseline schedule, cargos may
   have to be loaded faster and extra cargos may have to be added to avoid lost production. As
15 another example, if a customer requests to change the delivery time of his cargos, the entire
   schedule may have to be changed because ship availability may be changed and
   loading/unloading schedules may also be changed. As yet another example, if the user wants
   to move a dry-dock event from one period to another period, all schedules in between these
   two periods may be affected and need to be re-planned.
20 [00155]      Disruption types that user may face in LNG supply chain optimization are pre
   built in the intelligent model preprocessor. When new and/or updated information is
   provided, the preprocessor may first determine whether or not and what disruptions may be
   caused. If disruptions are caused, the preprocessor may translate the information through a
   pre-defined scheme into objectives and constraints into the model to recover the schedule
25 from disruptions in a more efficient manner before the algorithms put effort to minimize
   deviations from baseline schedule.
   [00156]      Other information updates, together with new market opportunities, may not affect
   feasibility. That is, the baseline schedule may still function if the new options or opportunities
   are not pursued. By considering the new options or opportunities, however, economic
30 efficiency may be improved with potentially significant deviation from the baseline schedule.
   For example, the user can investigate the benefit to slow down the ship fleet by allowing a
   slower speed than that used in the baseline schedule. For example, the user can improve the
   netback by allowing some specific fuel modes other than the standard mode used in the
                                                 - 47  -

   baseline schedule. As another example, the user can reduce shipping cost and avoid ship
   spare time by out-chartering additional ships while not affecting the reliability for the
   transportation network significantly. As yet another example, the user can generate higher
   profit by diverting cargos to spot markets with high price.
 5 [00157]      Similar as disruption types, opportunity types that user may consider in LNG
   supply chain optimization are also pre-built in the intelligent model preprocessor. Information
   related to opportunities may also be translated through a pre-defined scheme into objectives
   and constraints in the model to provide insight in evaluating the economic benefit in an
   efficient manner. If taking the opportunity may cause significant deviation from the baseline
10 schedule, however, the opportunity may not be considered when the system focuses on
   schedule recovery and deviation minimization; instead, it may be investigated separately
   followed by the deviation minimization again.
   [00158]      The system may also take other inputs related to setting up the objective function
   including user preferences on flexibility to various kinds of changes for each cargo and user
15 preferences on the relative importance of different kinds of changes. Inputs could also include
   user preferences for the objective function to be optimized. The selections may include
   minimizing changes compared to a baseline schedule, maximizing economics, minimizing
   changes for a given economic performance, or maximizing economics for a given level of
   changes. Economic maximization may include user-defined model objectives such as
20 maximizing LNG throughput, minimizing costs, maximum profits, maximizing gross
   netback, optimizing optionality, and/or maximizing robustness in face of uncertainty related
   to weather conditions, travel times, or market conditions.
   [00159]      The models for LNG ship rescheduling optimization also have time-space network
   structure similar as in the long-term ship scheduling optimization with specific modifications.
25 These modifications are associated with the time horizon, cargo expression and/or ship
   availability.
   [00160]      For example, the time horizon may include the length of planning horizon, which
   is adjustable. That is, the time horizon may be any practical number of time periods, which is
   not limited to 90-day periods. Also, besides the planning horizon, a posterior horizon may
30 also be created in the network, which includes an appropriate number of time periods further
   out in the future. The posterior horizon provides the model ability to incorporate the future
   and make better decisions by avoiding unnecessary costly changes or increasing chance to
   take market opportunities during the planning horizon. For an example, during the planning
                                                 -48-

   horizon, daily production rates are higher than what were predicted in the baseline schedule
   and one spot cargo needs to be delivered by the end of the horizon. An extra ship may have to
   be in-chartered for this spot cargo if the model cannot see that a ship (not in-chartered) may
   idle for a long time period since the end of this planning horizon. For example, in the baseline
 5 schedule, there is a divertible cargo whose delivery time is close to the end of the planning
   horizon. However, the spot market that may take this cargo is much farther away than the
   cargo's original destination. The cargo can be possibly diverted only if the network includes
   the posterior periods because, otherwise, no decision variables associated with this diversion
   may be created in the network. Moreover, degree of flexibility (e.g., number of decision
10 variables) in different horizons may be adjustable. For example, all operational options (e.g.,
   fuel modes, speed levels, heels etc.) may be considered in the planning horizon to make a
   practical delivery schedule in near future. However, only the standard options, which are used
   in the long-term planning, may be considered in the posterior periods since this horizon is
   further out in the future and the corresponding planning information is less accurate and more
15 uncertain.
   [00161]      As another example, these modifications may include cargo expression. That is,
   instead of the general exclusive time windows expressed in the network for the long-term
   planning, individual cargos are expressed explicitly in the network in this problem. By
   including cargos in the arcs, all changes associated with cargos can be tracked precisely,
20 while only the binary decision variables towards arcs need to be created.
   [00162]      As yet another example, the modifications may include ship availability. When a
   ship is unavailable on a specific time period, all traveling arcs (e.g., ship is always on duty on
   traveling arcs in the network), which includes that time period may not be created in the
   network to: 1) reduce the network size and speed up the solution searching; and 2) avoid
25 using constraints to handle the ships' unavailability and so reduce the difficulty of the model.
   [00163]      For the LNG ship rescheduling model, the variables may include different types of
   variables associated with different aspects. For example, variables in the model may include
   cargo variables; contract variables; spot market opportunity variables; when to dry-dock each
   ship that requires dry-docking variables; what ship to out-charter and when variables; and/or
30 what ships to in-charter and when variables.
   [00164]      The cargo variables may include whether it may be diverted; load timing,
   discharge timing; load quantity, discharge quantity; assigned ship, destination terminal; heel
   left on ship; ship speed and fuel selection for laden voyage; ship speed and fuel selection for
                                                 - 49  -

   ballast voyage; what tank farm to load cargo at; and/or what berth to load cargo at. The
   contract variables may include how much quantity to divert; which cargo to divert; how much
   extra spot sale to take; and/or how many extra spot cargos to take and when. The spot market
   opportunity variables may include whether it may be taken; how much quantity to deliver;
 5 and/or how many cargos to deliver and when.
   [00165]     In addition to the variables, the LNG ship rescheduling model may also include
   various constraints. The time space network model for the long-term planning problem can be
   applied for this problem including additional constraints related to the cargos with their
   specific flexibilities towards: delivery contract, delivery destination, delivery ship, delivery
10 time, and/or delivery quantity. The delivery contract and/or destination constraints may
   include a determination whether a cargo is not divertible/optional (e.g., the cargo is enforced;
   the cargo can only be delivered to its original contract and destination; the cargo has to satisfy
   the other restrictions (delivery ship, time, quantity etc.)) and/or a determination whether the
   cargo is divertible/optional (e.g., diversion is favored, for example, contract/destination
15 change may not penalized; and/or the other restrictions (delivery ship, time, quantity etc.) are
   deactivated). The delivery ship constraints may include a determination that the cargo can
   only delivered by the original ship if ship reassignment is not allowed; a determination that
   the cargo can also be delivered by the other compatible ships if ship reassignment is allowed;
   and/or a determination that the delivery ship changes may be penalized. The delivery time
20 constraints may include a determination that the cargo cannot be delivered beyond the
   specified time window; a determination that the cargo can be delivered at any time period
   within the specified time window; and/or a determination that the delivery time changes may
   be penalized. The delivery quantity constraints may include a determination that the cargo
   cannot deliver LNG less than or more than the specified range; a determination that the cargo
25 can deliver any LNG quantity within the specified range; and/or a determination that delivery
   quantity changes may not be penalized.
   [00166]     With regards to the intelligent model preprocessor, this processor is a translation
   layer between the input data and the optimization model, which may translate the practical
   information provided in the input data to the advanced information used by the model and
30 algorithms. This preprocessor may provide a mechanism to translate business preferences and
   new/updated information into constraints and objectives that can be built into the model, and
   guide the optimization solver searching solutions towards feasibility in a more efficient
                                                 -50  -

   manner when disruptions are faced or towards optimality in a more efficient manner when
   opportunities are investigated.
   [00167]     This preprocessor may also include a series of criteria which reflect management
   options or preferences, a scheme to manipulate cargos which may be changed due to the
 5 updated information, and a penalty calculator which assigns cargo specific penalty weights
   for changes in the schedule. When updated information is provided in the input data, this
   preprocessor may execute the following steps: detect whether disruptions are caused and/or
   opportunities need to be investigated; manipulate, delete and/or add cargos according to the
   management preferences; calculate the cargo specific penalties for potential changes in the
10 schedule; and feed the modified cargos with their change penalties to the optimization model
   and algorithms. These steps may be provided in logic or set of instructions as discussed
   further below.
   [00168]     The intelligent model preprocessor provides users ability to specify their business
   preference towards LNG supply chain management. For example, if a ship is delayed and
15 delivery of one cargo is affected, there may be two approaches to address the problem, which
   may include delaying the cargo (which is cost efficient but may reduce customer's
   satisfaction) and/or in-chartering an extra ship for that cargo (which is expensive but may
   improve customer's satisfaction). The user can specify which approach is preferred. For
   instance, if the ship delay is less than a certain number of days, the former may be preferred
20 than the latter; if a specific customer is involved, however, the latter may be preferred than
   the former. As another example, if a customer requests to change a cargo delivery date, the
   user can specify the amount of effort permitted to satisfy that request. For instance, if the
   request is from some specific customer, the user may prefer to in-charter an extra ship if
   necessary to satisfy the request and so to improve the customer's satisfaction. Otherwise, the
25 user may prefer to negotiate the delivery date with the customer to avoid the cost for in
   chartering an extra ship. If the user does not specify their preferences, default assumptions
   may be applied, which may default to the typical practice in the art.
   [00169]     These cargos, whose delivery schedules may be affected by the updated
   information, may be manipulated with respect to the delivery contract, delivery ship, delivery
30 time, and delivery quantity. If necessary, some cargos may be deleted or optional cargos may
   be added to lead solution searching. The changes associated with these manipulated cargos
   may be assigned with specifically designed penalties based on the user's preferences. The
   manipulation and penalty scheme may be used to enhance the optimization solver to recover
                                                  -51 -

   feasible schedule or investigate opportunities in a more efficient manner. When updated
   information is provided, the intelligent model preprocessor may detect the followings:
   whether the baseline schedule is disrupted; how many cargos may be affected; how severe the
   disruption is; which method is preferred and how to fix the schedule; whether new market
 5 opportunities are present; and how to take the opportunity.
    [00170]     For example, if a ship is delayed seven days and in-chartering an extra ship (if
   necessary) is preferred, the system may determine that only the first cargo of the delayed ship
   needs to be handled by the in-charter and the remaining cargo can be handled by the original
   ship. Then, the first cargo may be assigned with the in-chartered ship. This modification
10 could result in schedule feasibility immediately if the in-charter's available time window fits
   to the first cargo's delivery window. If there is a solution in which the usage of this in-charter
   is unnecessary, the model may get rid of this in-charter when minimizing deviation from
   baseline schedule by assigning a large penalty for using extra in-charters.
    [00171]     As another example, if the ship is only delayed two days and delaying cargos is
15 preferred over using in-charters, the system may determine that there are three cargos that
   may be delayed potentially. Then the delivery time flexibility for these three cargos may be
   enlarged accordingly so that they can still be delivered by the delayed ship. Thus, the model
   may recover the schedule in a more efficient manner because it only has to resolve the
   inventory and facility conflict when shipping resource is not a problem. However, if
20 delivering a cargo by its original ship two days later is not preferred compared with
   delivering the cargo by another ship (e.g., not in-chartered) on time, higher penalties may be
   assigned to delivery delays than to ship changes. When deviation from baseline schedule is
   minimized, delivery delay could then be pushed out from the schedule if such a solution
   exists.
25  [00172]     As yet another example, if a user has six divertible cargos and a market
   opportunity who may take all of these six cargos. In this scenario, the original schedule is still
   a feasible solution. The system may evaluate the spot market opportunity first and then
   minimize changes if the market opportunity is taken. Before making a decision, the user first
   needs to understand: how many cargos should be diverted; how it may improve economics;
30 and what is the impact on the baseline schedule. To achieve this objective, the intelligent
   model preprocessor may add six optional cargos with the following specifications: 1) delivery
   destination is the spot market; 2) delivery ship is existing ships (e.g., not in-chartered) if they
   are available to deliver the spot cargos without causing too many changes; extra in-chartered
                                                 - 52  -

   ships otherwise; 3) delivery time is calculated so that the corresponding loading time matches
   the loading time of each divertible cargo; 4) delivery quantity is calculated so that the
   corresponding loading quantity matches the loading quantity of each divertible cargos. The
   settings of these optional cargos may be useful to avoid shipping resource conflict, inventory
 5 tank conflict and facility conflict. By using these settings, the optimization solver may
   efficiently discover the first solution with diversions to the spot market by searching solutions
   in the neighborhood around these cargos. And then, the solver may enhance the economics by
   optimizing the aspects associated to these cargos. After the economics are maximized,
   deviation from the baseline schedule is minimized by assigning large penalty for using extra
10 in-chartered ships. Thus, the final solution is a trade-off among economic pursue, change
   tolerance and management preferences.
    [00173]      Beneficially, the intelligent model preprocessor is a scheme to translate business
   preferences and new and/or updated information in LNG supply chain management to
   constraints and objectives in the model that may be useful to the model in finding feasible
15 and more economic solutions in a more efficient manner. This preprocessor provides a
   mechanism for the optimization model to obtain optimality in a more efficient manner when
   feasible solutions exist, or make practical recommendations to the user when updated
   information causes infeasibility. The preprocessor also enables the optimization model to
   evaluate all possible solutions and balance conflicting priorities based the user's requests and
20 preference in one shot. The preprocessor provides the user with the ability to avoid
   unnecessary delays. The present techniques are specifically designed for and applied to, but
   may not be limited to, LNG supply chain optimization. However, it may be applied to other
   scheduling problems in which the schedules need to be updated based on new information
   and user's preferences.
25  [00174]      As an example, a customer request may be made to change delivery. In the
   baseline schedule, a cargo named as "cargoA" has been planned. The cargo's original
   specifications are listed in Table 4, including cargo ID, contract, delivery ship, delivery
   location, delivery time, and delivery quantity. The cargo's original allowed flexibility is also
   shown in Table 4, below:
30                                                            Table 4
                                              delivery  delivery    s This Cargo  allow    allowed   allowed  allowed allowed
                          delivery  delivery
           ID    contract   ship   location     date    Quantity     Optional?     Ship   reduction increment Advance   Delay
                                                       (MMBTU)                   Change? (MMBTU)    (MMBTU)    (days)  (days)
         cargoA contractA  ship       locA   3/12/2014  3270000          No        Yes     300000    300000       0       0
                                                                 -53 -

    [00175]         In this table, the cargo is not optional and this aspect has to be reflected in the
   updated schedule; the cargo can be delivered by other ships instead of the specified shipp1;
   the cargo can have up to 300,000 million British thermal units (mmbtu) more or less quantity
   than the delivery quantity; and the cargo does not have any delivery time flexibility and so
 5 has to be delivered on 3/12/2014.
    [00176]         The cargo's updated specifications are listed in Table 5 below:
                                                              Table 5
                                           delivery  delivery    s This Cargo  allow   allowed    allowed allowed allowed
                        delivery delivery
        ID    contract    ship   location    date   Quantity      Optional?     Ship  reduction increment Advance  Delay
                                                    (MMBTU)                   Change? (MMBTU)    (MMBTU)   (days)  (days)
     cargoA' contractA   ship      locA   3/5/2014   3270000          No        Yes    300000     300000      0       7
    [00177]         If the customer request involves advancing the cargo by seven days (e.g., on
10 3/5/2014), the user may have various concerns before the decision can be made. The user's
   concerns may include questions, such as (i) is it possible to satisfy the request (with or
   without extra in-chartered ships); (ii) What should the user propose to minimize the deviation
   from the baseline schedule (e.g., most undesirable changes: introduce extra in-chartered
   ships; undesirable but acceptable changes: deliver the cargo between 3/6/2014 and 3/12/2014;
15 and/or desirable: deliver cargoA on 3/5/2014); (iii) regular changes: reassign delivery ships
   (not in-chartered); (iv) how may these changes affect other deliveries; and (v) how may these
   changes impact economics. The intelligent model preprocessor may perform various
   calculations, such as cargo manipulation and/or change the penalty scheme. The cargo
   manipulation may include cargoA being modified to cargoA' as in Table 5 above. In this
20 table, the delivery date may be changed to 3/5/2014; and it is allowed to delay up to seven
   days. The change penalty scheme manipulation may include adjusting the penalty scheme.
   That is, penalties for all cargos may be designed as noted below in the following logic:
           -  Delivery location (cl):
                    - Original destination: co 1= 0
25                  - Other destinations: not allowed
           -  Quantity (coq)
                    - Within specified range: cq = 0
                    - Outside specified range: o q = 0 if the cargo is divertible; not allowed
                         otherwise
30         -  Ship(os)
                    - Original ship: co s = 0
                    - Other non-in-chartered ships: co s = 1
                    - Extra in-chartered ship: cos = 100
           -  Date(cod)
35                       For cargoA'
                               - Requested date: cod = 0
                                                               - 54   -

                       - Within specified range (3/6/2014-3/12/2014): o d = (date-3/5/2014)2
                       - Outside specified range (3/6/2014-3/12/2014): not allowed
               - For other cargos
                       - Original delivery date: o)_d = 0
 5                     - Within specified range: 9d = date-original date
                       - Outside specified range: not allowed
           Penalty for each cargo: col + co q+ cos+ co_d
               - Total change penalty: summation of penalties for all cargos
10 [00178]     Beneficially, the system may provide the best recommendations instead of merely
   indicating that the request is infeasible. That is, the original baseline plan is always feasible,
   which provides the optimization solver with a solution that avoids spending large amounts of
   time on demonstrating feasibility or infeasibility. Further, when the change penalty is
   minimized, trade-offs are made between satisfying the customer's request and modifying
15 other customers' delivery schedule. For cargoA', the closer the delivery date to 3/5/2014, the
   less the penalty, the more impact on others' schedule. The designed penalty scheme may be
   useful for the optimization solver by searching towards satisfying the customer's request
   because the penalty function cod for cargoA' is steeper than that for other cargos.
   Meanwhile, the solution does not have unacceptable amount of impact on others' schedule
20 because the penalties for others' change may be dominant and may be pushed out during
   minimization. Also, in-charters may not be preferred compared with the regular changes and
   the economics may be maximized after the derisible change tolerance is discovered.
   [00179]     As a result of the LNG ship rescheduling modeling, the outputs from the LNG
   ship rescheduling model to the user may include information that may be utilized for
25 negotiation and decision making. That is, the date to deliver the cargo (e.g., some day
   between the original delivery date and the requested date); the impact on other's schedule;
   and/or the impact on economics. Accordingly, the user may reply to the customer with a
   counter offer based on the outputs. The user's counter offer, if the cargo cannot be advanced
   with 7 days, may include an offer to advance five days instead of seven days, as an example.
30 [00180]     Similar to the LNG ship scheduling model and noted above, the LNG ship
   rescheduling model may include different algorithms that are utilized to calculate the outputs.
   That is, the system includes a suite of specially designed algorithms consisting of five stages.
   These different stages are shown in Figure 5B. Figure 5B is a flow chart 550 of the five stage
   algorithm method for the LNG ship rescheduling model according to an exemplary
35 embodiment of the present techniques. In stage A, as shown in block 552, a schedule that has
   no constraint violations is developed. The schedule may be created to recover the schedule
                                                 - 55 -

   from disruptions (e.g., repair schedule to satisfy all hard constraints which may be violated
   due to disruptions). Then, as shown in block 554, the deviation from baseline schedule may
   be minimized in stage B. Then, in stage C, as shown in block 556, economics may be
   maximized while sustaining deviation at the minimized level or within a pre-specified
 5 tolerance. At block 558, in stage D, economics is maximized regardless the deviation from
   the baseline schedule. In this stage, new market opportunities which may induce significant
   changes may be captured. Then, in stage E, the deviation from baseline schedule is
   minimized, while sustaining a certain level of economics, as shown in block 560. The output
   of these algorithms may be used for LNG shipping operations and negotiations with third
10 parties, as shown in block 562.
   [00181]      The system may perform these algorithms stage by stage, wherein the solution of
   the previous stage is automatically fed to the following stage to speed up the optimization
   algorithms. Depending on the new and/or updated information, some of these stages may be
   bypassed or skipped. For an example, if disruptions are caused by the new and/or update
15 information, while no new market opportunities are provided, the system may perform the
   algorithms in stages A to stage C and skipping stage D and stage E. As another example, if
   disruptions are not caused, while only new market opportunities need to be investigated, the
   system could skip performing the algorithm in stage A to stage C and perform the algorithms
   in stage D and stage E. When both disruptions and new market opportunities are present, the
20 system can also be terminated after any of these stages depending on user's need.
   [00182]      Further, each of the stages of the algorithms solves a series of local neighborhood
   optimization problems. The local neighborhood structures are designed for this system
   include, but are not limited to, those described below.
   [00183]      In stage A, the schedule is recovered from disruptions, as noted in block 552. This
25 stage determines a means to recover the schedule from disruptions in a more efficient manner
   (e.g., repair schedule in a more efficient manner to satisfy all hard constraints, which may be
   violated due to the new and/or updated information). In this stage, non-negative slack
   variables may be added to hard constraints; and the total amount of slack variables is
   minimized. If the objective function value can be minimized to zero, then the schedule is
30 recovered successfully. Otherwise, the solution may suggest what may cause infeasibility and
   provide hints for the user to resolve the disruptions. This stage includes three major steps,
   which include (step 1) construct a solution based on the cargos specified in the baseline
   schedule and the cargos manipulated by the intelligent model preprocessor; (step 2) improve
                                                  - 56 -

   the solution by applying a series of local neighborhood searches, which are similar as in the
   annual delivery model; and (step 3) search the solution directly in the global region to
   demonstrate feasibility or infeasibility if step 1 and step 2 fail to discover the first feasible
   solution.
 5 [00184]     Due to the potential disruptions caused by the new and/or updated information,
   the baseline schedule may not be feasible. However, the cargos manipulated by the intelligent
   model preprocessor are designed to recover the schedule from disruptions in a more efficient
   manner. Thus, a narrow neighborhood is constructed and searched around the cargos
   specified in the baseline schedule and the cargos manipulated by the intelligent model
10 preprocessor. Very often, the slack variables can be pushed to zero in a more efficient manner
   due to the design of the manipulated cargos. Branch and bound node limits can be specified
   to terminate each search, as well.
   [00185]     If the first feasible solution is not discovered in the above neighborhood, local
   neighborhood searches may be performed in a sequence. That is, k-day-flexibility search,
15 rolling time window search, one-ship search and two-ship search may be performed in a
   specific sequence. These searches are similar as the searches designed for the annual delivery
   model, which is discussed further above. Branch and bound node limits may be specified to
   terminate each search.
   [00186]     If step 1 and step 2 fail to determine the first feasible solution, step 3 may be
20 performed either to find the first feasible solution or to demonstrate infeasibility of the
   original configuration and provide suggestions on how to adjust the schedule. In step 3, slack
   variables may be deleted and the global region may be searched. The search may be
   terminated after a time limit specified by user or specified number of iterations. For example,
   if a terminal is down, the user needs to divert all cargos planned for that terminal to another
25 candidate spot market. However, the shipping resource and inventory management conflict
   may not be solved. As such, the spot market does not have the capacity to consume all
   volumes that need to be diverted or the user does not have resource to satisfy the requirement
   of the spot market. Thus, the user may need to consider another market or obtain more
   resource.
30 [00187]     In stage A, the system provides the capability to recover from various types of
   disruptions. When disruptions have been pre-built in the intelligent model preprocessor, the
   schedule can be recovered in a more efficient manner in step 1; otherwise, step 2 and step 3
   can obtain feasible solutions for any general type of disruptions. Also, if a disruption type is
                                                  - 57 -

   new and cannot be resolved in step 1, the intelligent model preprocessor may learn from that
   disruption, update its techniques and develop new capabilities to recover from that type of
   disruption in future performances.
   [00188]     In stage B, the deviation from baseline schedule is minimized, as shown in block
 5 554. The first schedule recovered from disruptions may have an unacceptably significant
   amount of deviation from the baseline schedule. This stage is designed to minimize the
   deviation from baseline schedule. The algorithms in this stage can be categorized into two
   groups, which are a group of searches which may eliminate changes for all cargos
   simultaneously within a local neighborhood, and another group of searches each of which
10 may eliminate changes of one specific cargo.
   [00189]     The first group includes a time window search and two global searches. In the
   time window search, the changes are detected one by one starting from the beginning of 90
   day period, and a time window around the change is created. Within the time window,
   variables are freed and may be re-evaluated, while outside the time window, variables may be
15 fixed to their current values. In one global search, variables in the posterior periods are fixed
   to the current values and the remainders are freed up; in the other global search, decision
   variables related to in-chartered ships are fixed to their current values and the remainders are
   freed up. Branch and bound node limit can be specified to terminate each search.
   [00190]     The second group includes a neighborhood structure, which is specifically
20 designed for cargos with changes. If a cargo has deviation from the baseline schedule, a
   hybrid neighborhood structure may be created for the cargo. In this neighborhood, variables,
   either inside the time window which is created around the cargo, or associated with the
   decisions corresponding to the cargo, or related to the ship that originally delivers the cargo
   in the baseline schedule, may be freed up; other variables may be fixed to their current
25 values. Cargos can be sorted according to the significance of their deviations in this
   neighborhood search. For an example, cargos which are using extra in-chartered ships can be
   investigated earlier than the cargos which only have regular date or ship changes. Branch and
   bound node limit can be specified to terminate each search.
   [00191]     If the user has higher tolerance towards the deviation from the baseline schedule,
30 the deviation tolerance can also be used to terminate the algorithm. That is, the algorithm can
   be stopped as soon as a solution whose deviation is within tolerance is discovered.
   [00192]     In stage C, the economics are maximized, while sustaining minimized deviation.
   The economics for the solution with minimized deviation discovered in stage B may be
                                                  - 58 -

   enhanced by optimizing options. For example, different speeds, fuel modes and spot markets
   may be some of the options. This stage may maximize economics among solutions with the
   minimized deviation or a deviation within a specified tolerance by adding an upper bound to
   the total deviation. The algorithms in this stage may include two rolling time window
 5 searches with different parameter specifications. The structure of rolling time window
   searches is similar to that described above for the annual delivery model.
   [00193]      The first rolling time window search has more narrow windows (as compared with
   the second rolling time window search). For each iteration, all variables, either outsides of the
   window, or for the decisions associated with a spot market, or for the decisions associated
10 with an extra in-chartered ship, are fixed to their current values; and all other variables are
   freed up. This neighborhood search is directed to optimize the options which are not related
   to spot market opportunities, for example the options for fuel, speed, or heel, etc. A smaller
   branch and bound node limit can be specified to terminate the search.
   [00194]      The second rolling time window search has wider windows (as compared with the
15 first rolling time window search). For each iteration, variables outsides of the window are
   fixed to their current values; and other variables are freed up. This neighborhood search may
   not only optimize the options which are not related to spot market opportunities, it may also
   investigate whether cargos should be sent to spot market to improve economics. This
   neighborhood is larger compared to the first one and thus a larger branch and bound node
20 limit should be specified to terminate the search.
   [00195]      This is the stage where the user can test the trade-off between deviations from the
   baseline schedule and the economic pursue. Within a certain threshold, the higher the
   deviation tolerance, the maximum economics results. Above the threshold, however, further
   higher deviation tolerance may not be useful because the optimality of the project may have
25 been achieved.
   [00196]      In stage D, economics may be further maximized regardless schedule deviation
   from the baseline schedule. The new optionality may be evaluated. As noted above,
   economics are maximized within the specified change tolerance in stage C. If the change
   tolerance is small or set up improperly, new market opportunities, which could further
30 maximize economics, may be excluded because they may involve significant amount of
   changes on the schedule. To resolve this situation, economics may be maximized without any
   change limit in this stage. Rolling time window algorithms are designed and applied in this
   stage.
                                                  - 59 -

   [00197]     The rolling time window is a similar hybrid structure as in stage C. Rolling time
   windows are created one by one starting from the beginning of 90-day horizon. For each
   iteration, all variables, either inside of the time window, or for decisions associated with
   optional cargos, or for decisions associated with spot markets, are freed up for optimization
 5 while all others are fixed to their current values. Without change limit, the optimization
   solver is free to take all options or spot market opportunities as long as the economics are
   improved. Thus, the solution in this stage has the optimal economic benefit given the
   resource and market at that time.
   [00198]     In stage E, deviations are minimized while sustaining maximized economics. The
10 schedule achieved after stage C may have unnecessary changes or unacceptable significant
   amount of deviations even though the economics are maximized. This stage may provide the
   user a different approach to make the trade-off between deviations from baseline schedule
   and the economic performance. In this stage, deviations may be minimized while sustaining
   the economics at the maximized or a pre-specified level. The algorithms in this stage are
15 similar as those in stage B. The only difference is that, a lower bound is added to the
   economics in the local neighborhood optimization problems in this stage to sustain the
   economic level.
   [00199]     In this stage, the user can specify how much economic benefit to be allocated to
   minimize deviations from baseline schedule. Within a certain threshold, the more economics
20 given up, the less the deviations from baseline schedule. Above the threshold, however,
   further larger tolerance for economic decrement may not be beneficial because the deviations
   from baseline schedule may have been minimized. The solution achieved in stage B and stage
   D present the two extreme preferences that the user may have regarding with the trade-off
   between solution reliability and economic pursue. This model provides user capability to
25 make selections among these solutions at the same time.
   [00200]     This system is designed for and applied to, but is not limited to, LNG ship
   rescheduling optimization. The present techniques perform one or more of the following:
   recovering from the disruptions; minimizing changes to the schedule; maximizing benefits
   while sustaining deviations within a certain level; maximizing benefit by evaluating new
30 opportunities; minimizing changes while sustaining economics at a certain level. These
   provide a mechanism to update schedules for all projects in which planning assumptions are
   changed frequently and trade-off between schedule reliability and economic pursue has to be
   made.
                                                 - 60 -

   [00201]     As an output from the system, the system may be used in various manners during
   project-specific operations planning, such as: to negotiate an ADP during the negotiation
   process; to develop an initial 90-day delivery plan; and/or to evaluate the effect of customer
   requests for modifying the initial 90-day delivery plan. Also, it may be used to recover ship
 5 schedule from disruptions (e.g. ship breakdown, and/or terminal breakdown). Further, it may
   be used in a similar way for other scheduling time horizons other than annual and 90-days.
   The ship schedule optimizer may be integrated with maintenance and production planning, as
   well as looking at maximizing profits by utilizing flexibility within contracts. For example,
   the ship schedule may be optimized simultaneously with any of the following: LNG
10 inventory levels at one or more LNG liquefaction terminals; LNG inventory levels at one or
   more LNG regasification terminal; fuel selection for at least one voyage; ship speed for at
   least one voyage; a maritime route for at least one voyage; berth assignment at any of the
   LNG liquefaction terminals          and/or LNG regasification terminals;        ship maintenance
   schedules; and LNG liquefaction or production schedules. Further, aspects disclosed herein
15 may be used for developing delivery plans for an individual LNG producer to one or more
   customers, or for a company that owns equity gas in one or more LNG liquefaction terminals
   and delivers LNG to one or more customers. Disclosed aspects may also be used to evaluate
   the performance of an optimized schedule under various future scenarios associated with
   uncertainties identified herein.
20 [00202]     The system may provide the user the capability to recover schedule from
   disruptions and evaluate new market opportunities in a more efficient manner through its
   intelligent model preprocessor. Depending on how severe the disruption is and how urgent
   that the schedule needs to be recovered, the system can provide different solutions with
   different priorities. If the user prefers to recover the schedule as soon as possible regardless of
25 deviation from the baseline schedule, the system may stop immediately after stage A which is
   designed to get the first feasible/practical solution in a more efficient manner. Alternatively,
   if the user also wants to minimize deviation from the baseline schedule, the system could be
   terminated after stage B in which the total weight for prioritized changes is minimized until
   satisfying the user-pre-defined change tolerance. Alternatively, if economic benefits are also
30 pursued, the system could run till the end of stage C in which economics are maximized with
   the given change tolerance. Alternatively, if more market opportunities need to be
   investigated, the system could perform stage D in which economics may be maximized
                                                    -61 -

   regardless the change tolerance and stage E in which changes may then be minimized while
   sustaining the economic advantages.
   [00203]     The system may provide the user the ability to analyze the trade-off between
   minimizing changes in the updated planned compared to the baseline plan, and maximizing
 5 the incremental economics. For example, the system may optimize economics without
   constraining for the number of changes compared to a baseline plan. The system may also
   develop a schedule that minimizes overall changes compared to the baseline plan.
   Alternatively, the system may optimize economics for a given number of changes compared
   to baseline plan. Alternatively this system may minimize the number of changes for a given
10 level of economic performance. In each of these cases, the system provides a mechanism for
   the user to specify the degree of flexibility and importance associated with each type of
   change on a cargo by cargo basis.
   [00204]     Figure 6 is a chart 600 of a notional curve 602 representing the incremental
   economics generated by allowing for more changes in the updated schedule compared to the
15 baseline schedule. Within a certain threshold, the higher the deviation tolerance, the
   maximum economics results, as shown on the curve 602. Above the threshold, however,
   further higher deviation tolerance may not be useful because the optimality of the project may
   have been achieved.
   [00205]     The system may provide the ability to optimize economics from several
20 perspectives including minimizing costs, maximizing throughput, maximizing profit etc.
   [00206]     The updated schedule can be used as a starting point to negotiate 90-day delivery
   schedules with customers. During the negotiation with a specific customer, the system can be
   used to evaluate the operational feasibility, economic effect, and side-effects on the delivery
   schedules for the overall portfolio of satisfying requests by that specific customer. For
25 example, the system may evaluate how a customer request (or the relevant scenario under
   consideration) may affect LNG inventory profiles at each storage tank farm, and re-optimize
   the schedule to ensure that storage inventory constraints are satisfied. Similarly, the system
   may evaluate whether the relevant scenario may cause any berth conflicts and may
   reoptimize the schedule to mitigate such issues. Similarly, the system may evaluate if the
30 relevant scenario may cause any contractual constraints to be violated, the system may re
   optimize the schedule to ensure that these violations are minimized
   [00207]     The system can also be used to reoptimize schedules during negotiations with
   customers during the 90-day scheduling or ADP development stage
                                                 - 62 -

   [00208]      The system can optimize the schedule at different levels of granularity. For
   instance, some decisions (e.g. ship speed) may be optimized at a finer scale in the near term
   (e.g., within the time period of the rescheduling horizon, such as within the 90-day plan), and
   at a coarser scale beyond the near term. Similarly, the system may optimize ship fuel
 5 selection in the near term, but assume nominal selection rules beyond the near term.
   [00209]      The design of the system can be applied to any scheduling problems in which
   schedules need to updated frequently based business's preferences and new information, and
   trade-off between change minimization and economics maximization need to be made.
   [00210]     As an example, the present techniques for LNG ship rescheduling may include
10 various scenarios that can be solved by this system include, but are not limited to, the
   followings: 1) production and inventory change (e.g., daily production rate differs from the
   production assumptions and or inventory level deviates from the predicted volume in the
   baseline schedule); 2) ship delay or ship down (e.g., ship delay by several days; and/or ship is
   down for a significant long period); 3) terminal down (e.g., terminal is down so cargos need
15 to be diverted; terminal is closed for maintenance so cargos need to be rescheduled; and/or
   berth is closed for maintenance); 4) change requests from customers (e.g., customer requests
   to change delivery destination/ship/time/quantity/grade and/or negotiation about the annual
   delivery plan); 5) divert contracts to spot market (e.g., spot market that accepts certain ship
   types/ cargo sizes / LNG grade); 6) dry-dock window is moved from period to period (e.g., to
20 ensure ample shipping resource during periods with higher LNG price) and/or 7) combined
   scenarios with more than one feature specified above.
   [00211]      The system may also provide intuitive interfaces to provide the user flexibility and
   enhance the identifying the differences between the baseline and the updated schedules. As
   an example, Figure 7 is a diagram 700 that represents the difference in ship schedules in the
25 updated and baseline plans for three ships. In this diagram 700, the difference in ship
   schedules in the updated and baseline plans is shown by the different color boxes. The
   diagram 700 shows the differences in the two schedules for three ships where a schedule
   changed for one of its original cargos. Each voyage (e.g., laden or ballast) is represented by
   one box. The boxes are color-coded by cargo, as noted in the legend 702.
30 [00212]      Figure 8 shows a chart 800 of a notional comparison of economics for the updated
   delivery plan compared to baseline delivery plan. The changes shown in Figure 7 provide the
   economic benefits shown in the chart 800 of Figure 8.
                                                 - 63 -

   [00213]      The user interface for the system may provide several capabilities for comparing
   two or more versions of the same schedule. The intended use of this functionality is to
   identify where the optimization model has modified the schedule in a significant way and
   provide an easy method for quantifying the value of the updated schedule.
 5 [00214]      To quantify the value of the schedule updates, the original ADP as well as the
   previous version of the schedule may be benchmarked. Benchmarking against the ADP
   provides insights into the comparison of the 90-day plan and the ADP. This type of
   benchmarking provides insights into the question of "how are we doing according to the
   original plan?" or "how are we doing given all previous schedule modifications since the
10 ADP?".
   [00215]      Outputs from the model may be utilized to provide visual indicators for the user.
   As an example, the outputs may include side-by-side comparison charts for certain metrics.
   These metrics may include total units loaded and delivered; sales revenue in dollars per unit
   delivered and overall; profit in dollars per unit delivered and overall; shipping cost in dollars
15 per unit delivered and overall; profit in dollars per unit delivered and overall; burn down
   chart showing ADP as the baseline with previous and current schedule to project the schedule
   status (e.g., units delivered, shipping costs; sales revenue, and profit). All of the above
   metrics should be displayed for the schedule overall, each Joint Venture, each Contract, and
   each Region of sale.
20 [00216]      When determining the value it is also valuable to have other metrics to benchmark
   two solutions. Some of these examples are Ship Utilization, Number of Cargos, Ratio of the
   Number of Cargos to the Cargo Size, Knots Sailed, Canal Fees Paid, etc. These metrics can
   quantify how much the schedule has changed for the value that is seen from the above charts.
   [00217]      For the system to effectively communicate changes to a schedule, several unique
25 comparison interfaces       needed to be implemented. Accordingly, displaying schedule
   differences side-by-side are filtered down to the relevant changes as well as cargoes that fall
   within the visible time period as defined by the user. These changes can be viewed side-by
   side and from multiple different perspectives, as shown in Figures 9 and 10.
   [00218]      Figure 9 is a diagram 900 that represents the difference in ship schedules for how
30 cargos are moving between the ships. In this diagram 900, the changes are represented for
   each individual ship.
   [00219]      Figure 10 is another diagram 1000 that represents the difference in ship schedules
   for how cargos are moving between the ships. In this diagram 1000, cargo schedule are
                                                 -64  -

   represented as to how the cargos are changing with respect to time, but also shows when a
   ship is changed.
    [00220]     In these diagrams 900 and 1000, the perspective blends the cargo in diagram 900
   to show the customer's delivery schedule for their cargos only. The value of this display is to
 5 provide clear indications and notifications with a user.
    [00221]     The customer schedule shows how a customer's cargos are changed for the
   purposes of updating the customer on the impact. To illustrate the scheme of this system, the
   ship down case is shown below. In this scenario, a ship Ship 1 is down in the middle of
   February and may get back to the production terminal on 3/18/2014 instead of 3/11/2014 as
10 planned. Due to the tight schedule of the ship Ship 1, the delay may affect two cargos. This
   aspect is shown further in the cargos planned for ship Ship 1 during March-May, which is
   indicated in Table 6 below:
                                                          Table 6
                         Load                                                               Back   slack days slack days
         Cargo   Vessel Termin    Load     Arrive  Custome Destinatio   Unload     Back   Termina      at         at
         Name    Name     al      Date      Date      r        n         Date     Date            production estinatio
                                                                                                    terminal n terminal
                 Ship1                              Cstm      Dest    2/27/2014 3/11/2014  ProdTr
         Cargol  ShipI  ProdTr 3/11/2014 3/22/2014  Cstm      Dest    3/24/2014 4/5/2014   ProdTr       0          2
         Cargo6  Ship1  ProdTr  4/6/2014 4/17/2014  Cstm      Dest    4/19/2014 5/1/2014   ProdTr       1          2
         Cargo7  Ship1  ProdTr  5/4/2014 5/15/2014  Cstm      Dest    5/16/2014 5/28/2014  ProdTr       3          2
         Cargo8  Ship1  ProdTr 6/10/2014 6/21/2014  Cstm      Dest    6/22/2014 7/4/2014   ProdTr      13          1
15  [00222]     As shown in Table 6, when the ship Ship1 is delayed from 3/11/2014 to
   3/18/2014, the cargos Cargo 1 and Cargo6 are impacted and cargo Cargo7 may or may not be
   affected depending on the change of facility usage caused by the ship being down. The
   system may repair the schedules for March to December (Mar-Dec) with minimum change
   given that the customers do not permit any delivery side change after July and allow ship
20 change, 1 day delivery change and 10% of quantity change during March-May period.
    [00223]     The system is able to recover the schedule in 15 minutes with minimized total
   weight of changes and maximized economics. An extra in-chartered ship is not used as in this
   correction and five cargos ship reassignments. After the schedule is repaired, the economics
   are improved by further optimizing fuel and speed options. Table 7 describes the cargos ship
25 reassignment for the baseline schedule versus the repaired schedule or plan:
                                                           - 65    -

                                                   Table 7
                                 Baseline Schedule        I           Repaired Plan
                 cargolD [ship     Load Date Unload Date       ship  Load Date Unload Date
                 Cargol    Ship1   3/11/2014   3/24/2014    -> Ship3 3/11/2014     3/24/2014
                 Cargo2    Ship4   3/17/2014   3/29/2014    -> Ship1 3/18/2014     3/29/2014
                 Cargo5    Ship3   3/17/2014    4/2/2014    -> Ship4 3/17/2014      4/2/2014
                 Cargo3    Ship1   4/6/2014    4/19/2014    -> Ship2  4/7/2014    4/19/2014
                 Cargo4    Ship2   4/11/2014   4/23/2014    -> Ship1 4/11/2014    4/23/2014
    [00224]    Figure 11 is another diagram 1100 that represents the difference in ship
   assignments.
 5  [00225]    Figure 12 is another diagram 1200 that represents the difference in ship
   assignments.
    [00226]    See Figure 11 and Figure12 for the illustration of ship reassignments below.
    [00227]    As an example, Figure 13 is a block diagram of a computer system 1300 that may
   be used to perform any of the methods disclosed herein. A central processing unit (CPU)
10  1302 is coupled to system bus 1304. The CPU 1302 may be any general-purpose CPU,
   although other types of architectures of CPU 1302 (or other components of exemplary system
    1300) may be used as long as CPU 1302 (and other components of system 1300) supports the
   inventive operations as described herein. The CPU 1302 may execute the various logical
   instructions according to disclosed aspects and methodologies. For example, the CPU 1302
15 may execute machine-level instructions for performing processing according to aspects and
   methodologies disclosed herein.
    [00228]    The computer system 1300 may also include computer components such as a
   random access memory (RAM) 1306, which may be SRAM, DRAM, SDRAM, or the like.
   The computer system 1300 may also include read-only memory (ROM) 1308, which may be
20 PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, or the like. RAM 1306 and ROM 1308 hold user and system
   data and programs, as is known in the art. The computer system 1300 may also include an
   input/output (1/0) adapter 1310, a communications adapter 1322, a user interface adapter
    1324, and a display adapter 1318. The 1/0 adapter 1310, the user interface adapter 1324,
   and/or communications adapter 1322 may, in certain aspects and techniques, enable a user to
25 interact with computer system 1300 to input information.
    [00229]    The 1/0 adapter 1310 preferably connects a storage device(s) 1312, such as one or
   more of hard drive, compact disc (CD) drive, floppy disk drive, tape drive, etc. to computer
   system 1300. The storage device(s) may be used when RAM 1306 is insufficient for the
   memory requirements associated with storing data for operations of embodiments of the
30 present techniques. The data storage of the computer system 1300 may be used for storing
                                                     - 66   -

   information and/or other data used or generated as disclosed herein. The communications
   adapter 1322 may couple the computer system 1300 to a network (not shown), which may
   enable information to be input to and/or output from system 1300 via the network (for
   example, a wide-area network, a local-area network, a wireless network, any combination of
 5 the foregoing). User interface adapter 1324 couples user input devices, such as a keyboard
   1328, a pointing device 1326, and the like, to computer system 1300. The display adapter
   1318 is driven by the CPU 1302 to control, through a display driver 1316, the display on a
   display device 1320. Information and/or representations of one or more 2D canvases and one
   or more 3D windows may be displayed, according to disclosed aspects and methodologies.
10 [00230]     The architecture of system 1300 may be varied as desired. For example, any
   suitable processor-based device may be used, including without limitation personal
   computers, laptop computers, computer workstations, and multi-processor servers. Moreover,
   embodiments may be implemented on application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) or very
   large scale integrated (VLSI) circuits. In fact, persons of ordinary skill in the art may use any
15 number of suitable structures capable of executing logical operations according to the
   embodiments.
   [00231]     In one or more embodiments, the method may be implemented in machine
   readable logic, set of instructions or code that, when executed, performs the instructions to
   create the 90-day plan and/or the ADP. The method may perform the operations noted in the
20 blocks of the different figures.
   [00232]     In one or more embodiments of LNG ship scheduling model, the LNG ship
   scheduling model may include various logic and components. The system may be used to
   develop annual delivery plan given the contract specification; production and re-gasification
   location specifications, rates; ship specifications; ship compatibilities with contracts,
25 production and re-gas terminals, berths; dry-dock requirements; storage tank requirements;
   berth specifications; berth and storage maintenance; loans / transfers of LNG among co
   located JVs; LNG grades; optionality opportunities including in-charter, out-charter,
   diversion; price projections; and/or potential ship routes. The system generates decisions,
   which may be based on ship travel details (time, route, fuel, speed, "state" (warm vs. cold));
30 cargo size, LNG quality; storage-berth combination which a cargo is served; is ship in
   chartered or out-chartered; and/or does ship go to dry-dock on a certain day. The system may
   also optimize decisions in consideration of ship travel restrictions based on arrival and
   departure times, speed, distance, loading/unloading operations; compatibility requirements
                                                 -67   -

   between JV, storage tanks, berths, contracts, cargo sizes; limits on loans between JV's;
   storage restrictions; berth utilization; contractual requirements (quantity, time); and/or
   maintenance requirements. The system may also optimize decisions to maximize/minimize
   an objective; maximize social interest; minimize shipping costs; maximize joint venture
 5 profitability (single JV case); maximize IOC shareholder profitability (multiple JV case);
   maximize NOC interest (multiple JV case). The system uses algorithms to optimize model
   may include basic algorithm has five stages or phases, as noted above. Further, the system
   may include extensions to handle soft constraints, such as soft ratability constraints (approach
   1: minimize violation after Stage 5 and approach 2: minimize violation after stage 2) and/or
10 soft inventory constraints (e.g., approach 1: minimize violation after stage 5 and approach 2:
   minimize violation after stage 2.
   [00233]      In one or more embodiments of the LNG ship rescheduling model, LNG ship
   rescheduling model may include various logic and components. The system may develop
   updated LNG loading and delivery schedules. The present techniques may adjust the given
15 baseline schedule for individual flexibility specifications towards cargo divertible/optional,
   delivery destination; delivery ship, delivery date, and/or delivery quantity. In response to
   new/updated information, the system may update the schedule in response to updated
   planning information; disruptions; new market opportunities; new customer request etc. The
   objective of the system may be to minimize changes; maximize economics; and/or combined
20 (balance changes and economics).         The LNG ship rescheduling model may provide
   adjustment to the length of planning horizon is adjustable; posterior horizon further in future;
   degree of flexibility (# decision variables) in different horizon. The system may include
   various constraints for cargos, such as a cargo is enforced if it is not divertible/optional;
   cargos cannot have changes beyond their specified flexibilities; cargo-based penalties are
25 assigned to each cargos to penalize changes; and/or the total penalties are minimized. As part
   of the system, an intelligent model preprocessor may be provided, which provide user's
   preferences responding to new/updated information; cargo manipulation; penalty calculation
   and/or guide optimizations to recover feasible schedules and achieve better economics in a
   more efficient manner. The system may also provide balancing between schedules need to
30 updated based business's preferences and new information and/or trade-off between change
   minimization and economics maximization need to be made
   [00234]      The disclosed aspects, methodologies and techniques may be susceptible to
   various modifications, and alternative forms and have been shown only by way of example.
                                                 - 68 -

The disclosed aspects, methodologies and techniques are not intended to be limited to the
specifics of what is disclosed herein, but include all alternatives, modifications, and
equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.
                                              - 69 -

                      Appendix A: Exemplary ADP Mathematical Model
   Content
 5 1 Data
      1.1 Fundamental Data
          1.1.1 Basic Sets
          1.1.2 Compatible Indexes and Sets
      1.2 Time Windows
10        1.2.1 Notations
          1.2.2 Definitions
          1.2.3 Compatible Sets
   2 Network
      2.1 Nodes
15        2.1.1 Dummy Nodes
          2.1.2 Production Nodes
          2.1.3 Regasi cation Nodes
          2.1.4 Incharter Nodes
          2.1.5 Outcharter Nodes
20        2.1.6 Maintenance Nodes
          2.1.7 Diversion Nodes
          2.1.8 Coloading and Split Nodes
          2.1.9 Compatible Sets
      2.2 Arcs
25        2.2.1 Dummy Arcs
          2.2.2 Arcs from production nodes
          2.2.3 Arcs from regasi cation nodes
          2.2.4 Incharter arcs
          2.2.5 Outcharter arcs
30        2.2.6 Maintenance arcs
          2.2.7 Diversion arcs
          2.2.8 Coloading and Split arcs
          2.2.9 Arcs between time windows
   3 Modeling
35    3.1 Notations
          3.1.1 Sets
          3.1.2 Parameters
          3.1.3 Variables
      3.2 Formulation
40
                                              - 70 -

1     Data
1.1     Fundamental Data
1.1.1    Basic Sets
Time Periods
    *i T: set of time periods [fE T = (0, 1           )
                                                  T. )JT
Terminals
    v TRLNG: set of production terminals [tr E TRLNGO
    * TR"G: set of regasfiation terminals [fr E TREG'
    P TR'01": set of incharter terminals [r E TRcu ]
    * TRff T   : set of outcharter terminals [tr E TRoH}
    * TRMftN: set of maintenance terminals [tr E TRM"]
    * TIR: set of all terminals [tr F TR = TRL NG UpTRIG U TRIc           JTROC" u TRMN]
    * TRP': set of diversion terminals [tr E TRDI' C TR ENGj
Distances
    a RIT: set of routes [rt E RT]
Ships
           5
    * Vr     : set of DES ships {v E VDES
    * VFOB: set of FOB ships [v F V" 0 )
    v ycV H set of inehaners [v E V cH)
    * V: set of all ships [v E V = VDES U VFOS        VICH
    P VoCc: set of outcharters [v E VOCH C VDEJ)
    * SP: set of ship speeds [sp E SP]
    w SF: set of ship fuel types [sf E SPg
    * ST: set of ship states [st E ST]
    * ZL: set of loading cargo sizes at production terminals[zl E ZLj
    * ZR: set of arrival cargo sizes at regasilfeation terminals[zr E ZR]
           Note: ZR is derived from ZL, boil-off and fuel usage (See LL2 Ships).
    m ZD: set of discharging cargo sizes at regasification terminals[zd F ZDJ
           Note: ZD is derived from ZR and heel reserve (See 1-1.2 Ships).
    w SZ: set of cargo sizes [sz E SZ = ZL u ZR u ZD]
                                                        - 71  -

Joint Ventures
   * JV: set of joint ventures [jr E JV]
Storage Units
   a SU: set of storage units [su E SU7]
Grades
   w C: set of energy grades of LNG (g E C)
Berths
   s B: set of berths [b E B]
   * BL NO: set of berths in production terminals      [b E BLNC]
Customers
   * CM: set of customers [cm E CMll
   w CMINV: set of customers with inventory management in the model [CMIVV C CA]
Contracts
   a DCDES: set of contracts with DES ships [dc E DCDEE)
   s DCFOB:     set of contracts with FOB ships [de E DCFOB]
   a  DC: set of all contracts [dec E DC = DCDEs U DCFD       6
                                                                 ]
   a Notes:
           Each contract associates with one unique joint venture jv(dr).
           Each contract associates with one unique customer cm(dc).
           Each contract associates with one unique production terminal trL NG(dc) E TRLNG,
           Each contract associates with one unique regasification terminal trREG(de) E TREG.
Fiscal Regimes
   s BFR: set of base fiscal regimes [bfr E BFR]
   w FR: set of fLscal regimes   [fr E FR)
1.1.2   Compatible Indexes and Sets
Time Periods
   * T(?): set of available time periods for ship v, [T(v) Q T]
   s t(v): the earliest available time period of ship v, if(v) = minT(v)]:
   * T(v): the latest available time period of ship v, Ft(v) = maxT(v)];
   a T(dc): set of available time periods for contract dc, [T(dc) c T]
   a I(dc.): the start time period for contract dec, [t(dc) E T)
   a T(dc): the end time period for contract de,    [(dc) E T]
                                                    - 72   -

Terminals
   * TR(v): set of terminals that ship v can visit, [TR(v)       TR.J
     Ef(v): the start location of ship ?i, [tr(v) E TR);
           Vv    VDES, tr(v) F TRLNG
           Vv F V      B, Lt(v) E TRLNG
           Vv F VICH, tr(v) F TRC01
   * lT(v): the end location of ship v, [Ft(v) E TR);
           Vs E VDES,           FE()TRLNC
           Vv F VPOn tr(v) F TRREG
           Vv F Vic,      tr(u) E TWR0 "
   * TRLJvG(v): set of production terminals that ship v can visit, [TRL      NO(V)       gTRLNG
   * TRREG(v): set of regasification terminals that ship v can visit, [TRLNG(V) E TRIEG}
   * fr(js): the production terminal that joint venture jv locates, [h-(jv) F TRLNG)
   *  trLNG(dc): the production terminal associated with contract     de, [trLNG(de) F TiLNG
   *  trREG(dc): the regasification terminal associated with contract de, [frREG(dc) E TREG]
   * TR(cm): set of regasification terminals where customer cm has contracts , [TR(cm) g TRREG
Distances
   * RT(tri,   tr2 ): set of routes between terminals frI and tr2, [RT(lri, tr2 ) E RT]
   * FSTD(fr1 tr2): the standard route between terminals tri and tr 2 , [ria (tri,2fr) E RT(tri, tr2)]
   * RT+(fr): set of outgoing routes from terminal tr, [RT+(tr) E RT]
   *RT -(fjr): set of incoming routes to terminal tr, [RT-(tr) E RT]
   * Ai(ri, sp): the travelling time needed for route rt with speed sp
Ships
   * V(dc): set of ships that are compatible to contract de, [V(dc) E V]
   * ST(v): set of states that ship v can take, [ST(s) E ST]
   * _s(v): the start state for ship u, [sgte) E ST(v)];
   * s7 (v): the end state for ship v,  [Fk(v) E ST(v);
   * ST(v, tr): set of states that are compatible with ship v at terminal     tr, [ST(v, fr)  ST (v)]
   * ST(v, sf): set of states that are compatible with ship v with fuel type       f, [ST(s, sf) C ST(v)]
   * stITD(u): the default state of ship v, [sti3 r(v)    E ST(?)]
   * SP(s): set of speeds for ship s, [SP(v) g SP]
   * spD(): the standard speed of ship v,         (spSTD(v)  E SP(v)]
                                                        - 73  -

   * SF(v): set of fuel types for ship v, [SF(v) G SF]
   * sf5TD(v): the standard fuel type of ship v, [sf3T"(v) E SF(v)
   * SF(v, st): set of fuel types that are compatible with ship v and state st,           [SF(,    st) G SF(v)]
   * ZL(v): set of loading cargo sizes for ship v, [ZL(v) G ZL
   * ZR(v, Zl, tr, tr 2 ): set of arrival cargo sizes for ship v when it arrives at regasification terminal tr 2
     from production terminal tri with loading cargo size z, [ZR(v, ztri, tr 2) 9 ZR)
           Letting loss(v, zi, sp, sf, rt) be the boil-off and fuel usage associated with        v, zl, sp, f, rt from
     production terminals to regasification terminals,
            ZR(v, zl, i, tr2) = (zi - loss(v, z, sp, sf, rt) :        Vsp F SP(v)j
                                                                      Vsf E Uatescvtu       )SF(, st),
                                                                      Vrt E RT(tri, tr2 )}
   * ZR(v, tri, tr 2): set of arrival cargo sizes for ship v at regasification terminal tr 2 from production
     terminal ti-j
           ZR(,   tr1, tr 2 ) = UJIEZL(v)ZR(v, ZI, tr1,tr2) C   ZR
   * ZR(v, tr): set of arrival cargo sizes for ship v at regasification terminal tr
           ZR(v,tr)    =  UgrTRLNC{v)ZR(vfr1 tr) C ZR
   * ZR(v, A, de): set of arrival cargo sizes at for ship v when it delivers gas for contract dc with loading
     cargo size z
           ZR(v, zl, de) = ZR(v A, trLNG(dc) &REG(dc))            9 ZR
   * ZR(v, dc): set of arrival cargo sizes at for ship v when it delivers gas for contract d
           ZR(v,de) = Z R(v,tr          0(dc),trEC(&)) C ZR
   * zd(v, zr, sp, sf, st, rt): the discharging cargo size for ship v associated with v, zr,       sp,    , strt
           heel(v.,zr. sp. sf, st, rt) is the heel reserve associated with v.,zr., sp. sf, st, rt from regasification
     terminals to production terminals (including boil-off, fuel usage and the LNG amount which is
     necessary to keep the ship in the state st),
           zd(v, Zr. sp, sf, St, t) = zr - heel(v, zr, sp, sf, st, T)
   * SizePlan: set of feasible combinations of loading size and arrival size, [szPlan E SizePlan]
   * SizePlan(v,dc): set of size plans szPlan which are compatible with v and dc, (SizePlan(v,de) C
     SizePlan}
           szPlan = ( zl,zr) with      z E ZL(v) and zr E ZR(v, zl, dc) for some v and dc.
Fiscal Regimes
   * fr(v): the default fiscal regime for ship v F yDes u yCHc,[fr() g FR]
           Note: the default fr(e) is used to calculate costs during the time periods when no specific
     fiscal regime is associated to ship v.
   * FR(bfr): set of fiscal regimes associated with the base fiscal regime bfr E BFR, [FR(bfr) C FR]
                                                            - 74 -

   * FR(jv): set of fiscal regimes assigned by jv E N, [FR(jOv)        FRI
   * FR(dc): set of fiscal regimes that are compatible with contract de E DC, [FR(dc) E FR
   * fJrREC(fr): the fiscal regime that immediately precede fr, [frPac(fr) E FR]
Joint Ventures
   * j'(fr): the joint venture associated with fiscal regime fr E FR, [jv(fr) E JV)
   * j'(dc): the joint venture associated with contract de E DC, [jv(de) E JV]
Storage Units
   * SU(jv): set of storage units for jo E V, [SU(jv) C Sul
   * SU(jv,g): set of storage units for jv E JV and g E G, [SU(jv,g) C SU(jv)]
Berths
   * B(v): set of berths that are compatible with ship v E V, [B(v) 9 B]
   * B(jv,su): set of berths that can be used by (jv,su), jv E JV, su E SU(jv), [B(jv, su) C B]
   * B(fr, st): set of berths that are compatible with terminal tr and state sf, [Br,st) C B]
   s B(v, j, su): set of berths that can be used by (vi,   jsu), [B(v, jv, su) q B(j, su)]
   * B(de, g): set of berths that can be used by dc to discharge LNG in grade g, [B(dc, g) C B(tr
   * B(?, de, g): set of berths that are compatible with v, dc, g, [B(v, dc, g) G B(trREG(dc),g)]
Contracts
   s DC(v): set of contracts that are compatible with v E V, [DC(v) G DC)
   * DC(v, tr): set of contracts that ae compatible with v and tr, [DC(v, fr) C DC(')]
   s DC(jv): set of contracts that are signed by jv E JV, [DC(jv) 9 DC]
   * DC(cm, tr,g): set of contracts that are compatible with (cm, tr, g), [DC(cm, tr, g) C DC]
Grades
   s g(su): the energy grade of LNG at storage unit su E SU,      [g(su) E C]
   * G(dc): set of energy grades of LNG that ae required by contract dc E DC, [G(de) q C]
                                                      - 75 -

1.2    Time Windows
1.2.1   Notations
    * TW: set of all time windows, [ti    E TW]
    * Note:
          Listed below are attributes that a time window tw might have.
          Not all attributes are required to define the time window tw.
    * Ship attributes
           V(tw): set of ships that are compatible with time window tw
          v(tw): the ship that is specified in the time window tw
          st(tw): the state associated with the time window tw
           sf(tw): the arrival state associated with the time window ti
          st(tw): the departure state associated with the time window to
    * Terminal attributes
          tr(tw): the terminal that is specified in the time window to
    * Time period attributes
          tf'"(tw): the earliest start time of time window tw
          t""(tw): the latest start time of time window tin
          t(tw): the start time of time window tw
          l(tw): the end time of time window tw
           t(tw): the time duration to complete an operation in time window tw
          T(tw): set of time periods that are compatible with time window tw
    * Contract attributes
           JV(tw): set of joint ventures that are compatible with time window tw
          jv(tw): the joint venture that is specified in the time window ti
           FR(tw): set of fiscal regimes that are compatible with time window to
           fr(tw): the fiscal regimes that is specified in time window tw
           DC(tw): set of contracts that are compatible with time window tw
          dc(tw): the contract that is specified in the time window tw
    * Delivery attributes
          p(ti): the minimum number of deliveries within time window tw
          Ag(i): the maximum number of deliveries within time window ti
          q(tw): the minimum quantity of LNG within time window tin
          4(tw): the target quantity of LNG within time window tw
          q(tw): the maximum quantity of LNG within time window tw
           zl(tw): the minimum loading cargo size specified in time window twn
           zl(tw): the maximum loading cargo size specified in time window tw
           zl(tw): the loading cargo size specified in time window tin
                                                  - 76 -

           ZL(tw): set of loading cargo sizes that are compatible with time window tw
           g(fw): the LNG grade that is specified in time window tw
           G(tw): set of LNG grades that are compatible with time window tw
1.2.2    Definitions
In this section, six categories of time windows are defined. Each category has its own data attributes
which are listed after the definition. Except for the inclusive time windows, all time windows are explicitly
expressed in the network either in the nodes or in the arcs.
Inclusive time windows
    * TWIN: set of inclusive time windows [tw E TWIN] (Sheet "Ratability")
           de(*41),tt)i(tw), q'tw), i(tW)(iWW)
    s Note: Inclusive time windows are not expressed in the network.
Exclusive time windows
    * TWEX: set of exclusive time windows          [1tw E TWEx] (Sheet  k1Windows")
           de(fw), f(tw), i(tw), p4ept)qt)i(tw),               ZL(tr)
           Note: Exclusive time windows will be expressed in the arcs in the network.
Outcharter time windows
    * TWGc': set of outcharter time windows [tw E TWH] (Sheet "Outcharter ")
           V(tWw) triF     ), tl(* ),Sti(tw), tr2(tW)- t2(t), SiQ(twr).
    * Description:
           V(tw): set of ships that can be outcharted, [V(tw) C VDES]
           tri(tw),ti(tw), sti(tw): the outcharter should arrive at h-i(tw) at ti(tw) with state stj(tw)
           tr2(tw), t2(tw), St2(tw):   the outcharter will return from tr(tw) at t2(tw) with state 5t2(tw)
Maintenance time windows
    * TWMN: set of maintenance time windows             [hr E TWMNI (Sheet "Maintenance")
           V(tw), tr-(tz), t"""(tzV), t"(tw), i(tw), St(tw)
    * Description:
           v(iw): the ship that needs maintenance as specified in time window tw, [v(tw) E VDEJ
           tr(tw): the dry dock that the ship v will have maintenance, [tr(tw) E TRMN]
           st(tw): the ship state when it returns from the dry dock, (st(&r) E ST']
                                                            - 77 -

Diversion time windows
  * TWE': set of diversion time windows [tw E TW'J (Sheet "Diversions")
          V(tw), JV(tw). FR(tur), trt)                          pt)     ~wJi)Mt) zw,~opt)      l(tw), G(tw)
  * TWDIJv: set of diversions each of which requires cargos from the same jo; [TWaD'               G TWDI]
          TIV          - {tw E TV': all cargos of tw need to be from the same jv)
  * TVDIFR: set of diversions each of which requires cargos from the same fr; [TWDIFR c TWDI]
          TWDIFR -            E TW'DI: all cargos of tw need to be from the same fr)
  * TWDRY: set of diversions that do not have specific restrictions; (TIVIReg C TW']
          TKTIRa'2 -       tw E TWDI: cargos of f can he from different jo and f-}
  * SizePlan(v, tUB): set of size plans szPlanwhich are compatible with v and tWoI; (SizePlan(v,twDI) E
     SizePlani
  * Note:
          Diversion optionality is considered for DES and ICH ships, Le,, V(tw) c VDES u VCH
          If a diversion is selected, then all its requirements need to be satisfied.
          zI(V.  tW, zr): the loading cargo size associated with arrival size zr for ship v and diversion tw
Coloading and split time windows
  * TWCo: set of coloading and split time windows (tw E TWc00 (Sheet "Complex-Windows")
          ptw),r(tw), dei(fw), _(fj)Ji(tw), z11w), g(tw), PI (tw), dc2 (tw),         (tw)  2 (tw), z12 tw),92(w), p2 (tw)
  * Description:
         t1 (fw),i(tw),1zl(tw),g 1 (tw),pi(tw): the earliest start time, latest end time, loading cargo
    size, LNG grade, and cost share of contract dcq(tw)
         t-(W),i(tw), Zb(tw),9 2 (tw), p(tw): the earliest start time, latest end time, loading cargo
    size, LNG grade, and cost share of contract dc 2(tw)
  * Derived attributes
          trLNG(tw): the production terminal associated with      tu
          trREG(tW): the regasification terminal associated with contract dei (tfU)
          tfrE0 (tw): the regasification terminal associated with contract dc 2 (tw)
          jvi(tw): the joint venture associated with contract dci (tw)
          jv 2 (tw): the joint venture associated with contract dc2 (tw)
  * Assumption:
          Coloading and split are allowed only for DES contracts,i.e., dci(fw), dc2(tw) E DCDE3       5
          Coloading and split are allowed among no more than 2 contracts.
          Coloading can only occur at the same berth.
          Split can occur either at the same berth or at different locations.
          Contract dci(ftw) is always processed earlier than dc(tw),Le., the order is fixed.
          Standard speed, standard fuel and standard route are used for tw E TWCO.
                                                         - 78 -

1.2.    Compatible Sets
    * TWEX (dc): set of exclusive time windows that are compatible with de, [TWEX (dc) Q TWEX]
    * TWEX (v, t,dc, zi): set of exclusive time windows that are compatible with v, t, dc and         zl
             TWEX (v        d, H) - tw E TWEX (dr) E             V(do(tw4
                                                            t E [t(tw),(tw)) n T(v),
                                                            de = dc(tu,
                                                            zI E ZL(tw)    n ZL(v)}
    * TWEX (v, t,dc, zr): set of exclusive time windows that are compatible with         v, t, do and zr
             TWEX(v. , dzr)= {tw E TWE (de) :                v E V(dc(t)),
                                                             i E T(v)[f (tw), 1(tw)] f T(v),
                                                             de = dc(tw),
                                                             zl(v, d. zr) E Z L(tw) n Z L(v)}
2     Network
2.1    Nodes
    * Parameters
           r""r(tri, tr 2 ): maximum travel time periods between terminal fr and fr 2
            Ti(ftr    tr2 ): minimum travel time periods between terminal tr and r-2
           A"t(tw): maximum waiting time periods allowed for time window tw
           AN: maximum operating time periods among all ships at all compatible terminals
              operating = berthing(including cooling down time) + loading(discharging)           + de-berthing
    * Attributes: v(n), t(n) tr(n), de(n), g(n), zr(n), st(n), fw(n)
           v(n): ship associated with node n
           f(n): time period associated with node n
           tr(n): terminal associated with node n
           dc(n): contract associated with node a
           g(n): LNG energy grade associated with node n
           zr(n): arrival cargo size associated with node n
           st(n): ship state associated with node n
           tw(n): time window associated with node n, [tw(n) E TWO' UTWCC UTWOCH UTWM]
              Not all attributes are required to define a node n.
2.1.1   Dummy Nodes
    * Source nodes
           NSRC ={(v) :Vv        EV}
    * Sink nodes
           NSNK     _(v}:VvEVI
                                                        - 79   -

    * Description
          Each ship (including in-charters) has one individual source.
          Each ship (including in-charters) has one individual sink node.
2.1.2   Production Nodes
      NLNG = {(v, t, fr,st) :Vv E VVi E T(v),Vtr E TRLNVG(v), Vat E ST(vir)}
    * Description
          st: the state when the ship arrives at the production terminal
             This is required to calculate the cooling-down time.
             jo, su and b will be put in the outgoing arcs,
             spsfrt and th c TWEX will be put in the outgoing ares.
             Loading size zI is indicated by end nodes of the outgoing arcs.
             Fiscal regime fr is indicated by end nodes of the outgoing arcs.
2.1.3   Regasification Nodes
      NRE    =  {(v, , tr,de, g, szPlan,fr) :    V E V, Vt E T(v), Vir E TRREO(V),
                                                 Vde E DC(v, r),Vg E G(de). VszPlan E SizePlanv,de),
                                                 Vfr E FR(dc))
    * Description
          szPlan: the combination of loading size zI and arrival size zr
             This is required to calculate the discharging size and time.
          b will be put in the outgoing arcs.
          sp,sf,rt and hr E TWEX will be put in the outgoing arcs.
          at is indicated by end nodes of the outgoing arcs.
2.1.4   Incharter Nodes
    * Incharters are treated as DES ships in the network with the following features:
          Their cost structures are more complicated than DES ships.
          Their available time periods ae more restricted than DES ships.
          Incharters are only allowed for regular contracts, diversions and coloading and split.
          Incharters get into the system through production terminals.
          Incharters leave the system through regasification and diversion terminals.
2.1.5   Outcharter Nodes
    * Outcharter nodes
           NO..     =   (wv,t, tr,st) :     Vtw E TW0",
                                            Vv E V(tw), VI E [ft(tw) - A-",
                                                                          Gt(tw)J n T(v),Ir = tri(fw),
                                             St = sti(tw)}
          Note: The outcharter jobs are built into the outgoing arcs from   tw.
                                                       - 80 -

2.1.6   Maintenance Nodes
                NMN     _(tutit.,i.st)
                        =                      Vtw cTrMN,
                                               v = v(tw), Vt E [f"(tw) - A"ft"ttm(tw)]     n T(v)ftr = tr(tw),
                                               Vsf E ST(v, tr)}
        The maintenance jobs will be built in the outgoing arcs from tw.
2.1.7   Diversion Nodes
      NO' = {(tw, v, t, tr,gzr, fr) :     Vtw E TW 0 '
                                          Vv E V(tw),Vt E [t(tw) - A"ait-(t)w)J fT(v), tr = tr(tw)l
                                          Vg E G(fw),Vzr E UI[atwmtI(z)||nZL(I)TR(v, zl, tr).
                                          Vfr E FR(tw)}
    a Description
          Diversion time windows are treated similar as an SPA contracts in the network.
          Diversion nodes are treated similar as the regular regasification nodes in the network.
          sp,sfst and rt will be put in the outgoing arcs.
2.1.8   Coloading and Split Nodes
    * Notations: Vtw E TIE
          the earliest time that the ship needs to arrive the production terminal for coloading
             tARR(tW)     = ftU)   - A't       -th)     L     (      )rREG(dci(_w)))    -     -     ar
          the latest time that the ship needs to arrive the production terminal for coloading
             I     (tw) = t 2 hl -&,)RG                   t?(REG(dc2 (tw))) _Tmn     LNG~dc (tw))l ir'EG(dci(1w)))
          ZRi(th): set of potential cargo sizes when the ship arrives at the terminal of dci(tw).
          ZR 2(tw): set of potential cargo sizes when the ship arrives at the terminal of dc(tw).
          ZDI (iw): set of potential discharging cargo sizes for dc, (tw).
          ZDw(tw): set of potential discharging cargo sizes for dc2(tw).
          Notes:
             ZRi(tw), ZR 2(tw), ZlDi(tw) and ZD 2(tw) will be calculated approximately.
             Cost will be allocated between frI(tw) and fr2 according to predefined ratios Pi and P2
    s Coloading nodes
       NCL   = Qt   1  ,t, t St) :    VhE TWcF
                                      Vv E V(tw),Vt E tARR&WH               ) T fARRv)t =
                                                                                  TLNGd(v),
                                      Vsf E ST(v, tr)}
          st is the state when the ship arrives at the production terminal.
          si is used to calculate the time for cooling down.
          The coloading operations will be built in the coloading arcs.
                                                      - 81   -

    v Split nodes for dci(th)
      NOD' =     {(tw, v, t, tr, darg,zr,fzst) :  Vw E TWO,
                                                  Vv E V(tw), Vt F (tI(tw) - A t, 4i(tw)] f T(v), tr = fr  (dej(tw))
                                                  dc = dct(ta'),g = gjiw), Vr E ZRI(tui) = ZR(v, zi(hi), det(t)),
                                                  fr = FR(dci),Vst F ST(, sf '"(v))}
           st is the state when the ship returns to production terminals later.
           The discharging size for dc (ho)is approximately calculated as if standard speed,fuel and route
      are used in the remaining voyages to tr 2(hw) and back to production terminals.
    P Split nodes for de(tw)
      Nc'    =   {(tw, v,t,fr,del g, zr,fr, st) :   W F TWCO,
                                                  Vu E V(tw),Vt E It(tw) - A" tCJ2(ti)] T(v), tr = fr      (deQ(tW))
                                                  de = dc2 (tu)),q = gq(tw),Yzr E ZR 2 (tw),
                                                  fr = FR(dc2),Vsi E ST(v, sffl       (v))}
           st is the state when the ship returns to production terminals later.
           The discharging size for dc 2(tw) can be calculated more accurately than that for dei(tv).
2.1.9   Compatible Sets
    s N: set of all nodes, [n E N]
    P NFOB: set of nodes associated with FOB ships,      in E NFOB]
    o N DEs: set of nodes associated with DES ships, [n E N D ES
    v N'C': set of nodes associated with ICH ships,     [n ENcli
    * NLNG: set of nodes associated with production terminals, (n E NLNGJ
    * NREG: set of nodes associated with regasification terminals,      In F NREGJ
    s N(v): set of nodes for ship v, (N(v) C Nj
    v NL NG(U): set of production nodes for ship v, ANL    N(v)    E N(u)]
    s NREG(v): set of regasification nodes for ship v, [NREG(v) E N(u)]
2.2    Arcs
      A set of all ares [a E A]
    * Operating and travelling arcs
           Definition: (nif",n",jv(optional), su(optional), b,sp,sf,       T, tw E TW E   (optional))
           Timeattributes: rf7r,4.$ rIrf, T, TF
              r-2: time to start berthing and cooling down, rg   = t(nfr-)
                                                          -  82 -

             rG: time to start operating (loading, discharging, outchartering or maintaining)
             r,: time to start de-berthing
             T3   time to start departing
             T: time of arriving at destination, -' = t(n'")
             T1: set of time periods on which the arc a is operating, TO          ='={l+   1. ,
             T7T: set of time periods on which the are a is occupying     a berth, Tf      = {      1     rf)
           Terminal attributes:  jv,, su, h.
             jv%: the joint venture associated with are a
              su: the storage unit associated with arc a
             b: the berth associated with are a
           Size attributes: z., zd, ..0 3,, qq
              zl: loaded cargo size at production nodes associated with are a
              zda: discharged size at regasification nodes associated with are a
             &,,g: loaded amount associated are a during time period t
              4,t: discharged amount associated with are a during time period t
             4,: sold energy quantity associated with z4 or zd for are a
             ql.: loaded energy quantity associated with z1 or zl(v, de, zr)/zl(v1 w, zr) for are a
           Cost attributes: fr,, tax,, share(OC, sharei&OC Rev., Roys, Shp.
             fr.: the fiscal regime associated with the are
                   fr_= fr(v(n!F" )) if none of Jrm and n'" has specified fT
             tax.: tax rate associated with the are
             share 0 G: share of the specific organization associated with the arc
             share.,O: share of the non-specific organization associated with the are
              Rev: revenue achieved by the arc
              Roya: royalty associated with the are
              Shp,: shipping cost associated with the arc
           Note: All attributes can be calculated based on nPfr"     nt", b, sp, sf, rt in the definition. At
      tributes can be optional for some arcs.
    * Waiting arcs
           Definition: (nf",    n")
2.2.1    Dummy Arcs
    * ASRC: set of arcs from source nodes to destination nodes, Le', nrom E NSRC
                                                   - 83 -

           ASRC          r    om ):      V E VDES u vFOB.
                                           from      SRC()
                                         VRtz  EIn ENLNC(v) :v(n) = v,I(n) =ft),'ir(n) ETR(v), st(n) E.L(v')I
        u{(n"fr"    n"spsfPrt) :         Vt E V     ',
                                         ,from    _ SRC
                                         Vtrf        TR(v),Vtrgo ETRLNG(v), Vrt ERT(frfom, t
                                         Yst E _(v),VSp ESP(v),Vsf ESF(v si)
                                         VnF6 {n E NLNG(v) : v(n) = v,(n) = f(v) + A(rtjsflj(n) =                sQ
           All ships get into the system through production terminals with initial information.
   s  AsK: set of arcs to sink nodes i.e., n' ENSNK
                ASNK   =     7fOmm   to)       Vv E 1JDES,
                                               nto =3NVK (V
                                               VnJrom F IFN LN(V): v(n) = v, t(n) -I(v), tr~n) ETR(v)..st(n) E ST(t'
                        U{(f       ht)         Vv FEVFGB.I
                                                to =     NK
                                                 n=nSNK
                                                       ElnFNREG(
                                                    From                                7(v)tr(n)FTRfiEG(V)[
                                                                                                      R:v(n)=v.1(n)>
        U{(nfromn"b,spisfrf,st)                Vv    VEicH.
                                               nto = n    K(
                                                ts"" E TRREG(u)Vb F          "
                                               Virg ETR(v) Vrt ERT(ffrmfr to)
                                              VA E ST(v),Vp F SP(v),Vsf       SF(v, si)
                                              V&" E {n F NREi(v) : v(n) = vt(n) < i(v) - At(rt,sp)1r(n) =trfr
           DES ships leave the system through production terminals. FOB ships leave the system through
      regasificationt terminals. Incharters leave the system through regasification terminals,
   * ASRC->3NK: set of dummy arcs from source nodes to sink nodes for incharters
            ASRC->SNK       _I    f1m     t)from-       Ns RCMnpo - nS=K (v) Vv F VICH}
2.2.2   Arcs from production nodes
   * ALNG->RE:        set of arcs from production nodes to regasification nodes
                                                             - 84 -

         ALN->E         _ufroml                     b4 3Assp      , ,   EX)
                                            Vn         =   (v,          rifrotttfnm,st) C NL       nNFOB
                                            nto  = (v,   to, rio,de g, zr, fr) E          N EG,
                                            jv = j(de),Vsu ESU(jv, g),Vb E B(v,jvsu),
                                            Vsp F SP(v),Vsf E SF(v),Vrt E RT (tr'*It),
                                            VtwEX E TWEX (v r,, d.2 zl)}
                        ut((n""n",          jo, SU. b. SP, Sf, rt :
                                            Vf"m = (V                     ifm, st) E NLNG   yifrom n {NDE S ul N'C"H
                                            no = (vto,t",de g,zrfr) F NREG
                                            jv = jv(de),Vsu F SU(jv,g) Vb E B(v jv,su)
                                            Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(vVrf F                            from, t)
    s ALWAIT: set of waiting ares at production terminals
           ALw AIT   _,from          :to   Vn       =                   E N L NG
                                           n"= Vt+1,tr,             st) E NLNYG}
2.2.3   Arcs from regasification nodes
    * AREG->LNG:    set of arcs from regasifleation terminals to production terminals
      AREG->LNG     _.U from            bo    4 H)
                                        Vnm = {v,        tfr,            mrf,d. g,    zr, fr) F  N REG  nN '8,
                                        n      (vt *tr",st) E NLNG
                                        Vb E B(de g)n B(v)
                                        Vsp F SP(v), Vsf E SF(v, st), Vrt E RT{ir 1 '", t")}
                    u{(nffrom 7 0 ,       3sf, r, tw E)
                                        b,sp,
                                        VfrIm    = (vft"",trfmtdceg,zrfr) F N REG                       n (N DES UNcH)l
                                        n" = (v,t"tir"tst) F NLNG
                                        VbE B(de g) nB(v),
                                        Vsp E SP(v)l Vsf E SF(v st),Vrt E RT(frfrm, t-),
                                        VtwEXa    E TWEX (V, r I de, zr)}
    * ARWAIT:  set of waiting arcs at regasification terminals
           ARWAIT   =  ((nfromlto)             r     =_VN        rdezlfr)              FREG
                                           nto  = (v, t+ 1       r, dc,    zr, fr) E NREG
                                                       -  85   -

2.2.4   Incharter arcs
Incharters are treated as DES ships in the network,
   * AICH: set of all arcs for incharters
   o AcHv): set of arcs for incharter v E VIci
2.2.5   Outcharter arcs
   * A                 set of arcs from regasification nodes to outeharter           nodes
       A REG->{CH        _     frem-         b            ,,EX):
                                             Vn" = (tw v, t",t r1(tw), sti(tw))            E No
                                             n r"    =  (vjifrm,)tfro          de,g,zrfr)     E NREG n NDES
                                             bE B(dcg) n B(v),
                                             Vsp F SP(v)1 Vsf E SF(v st1(tv)),Vrt E RT(trf"rtir1(tw)),
                                             VtwEX       TWEX(?.dezr)
   * AoCH->LNG: set of arcs for outcharter nodes to production nodes
           AOCH->LNG        _    (fromnt         b.sp.SfLH)
                                                val'"     = (tw. v, tj{fw), tri(tw),sti(tw)) E NOCH,
                                                 n"' = (v,t"'irts2(tw))            E  N   LNGnn NDES,
                                                 b E B(tr 2 (tw).sktw)) n B(v),
                                                Vsp F SP(v).Vsf F SF(v.st2 (tw)),Vrt E RT(tr(tw), ts 0 ))
   * AOW AIT:    set of waiting arcs for outcharterS
            AOW     r   _(from n               Vfr     = (tw, v      t, tr,st) E 1   OCH
                                               nt = (tw,t,+          L trst) E NOC H
2.2.8   Maintenance arcs
   * AREG->MN:        set of arcs from regasiflication nodes to maintenance nodes
          AREG->MN =          (n1h',           bsp,sfrtwEX)
                                               Vn" = (tw.v(tw),t",tr(tw), st) E NMN
                                               nr** = {v(tw)t"tfr!rom,dcg,zrtfr) F NREG                  nNDES
                                               Vb E B(dc, g) n B(v),
                                               Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(, st),Vrt E RT(trf""tr")
                                               VtwEX      TWEX(v(tw)TT,dcz-r)}
                                                        - 86     -

   * AMN->LNO: set of arcs from maintenance nodes to production nodes
      AMN->LNG     =      fj n   nt.      b, sp, sf. rt)
                                          WI""" = (w, V(tW), tif"        t""wtr(tw), st(tw)) E N
                                          nt = (v~tW), t, "," si(tw)) E N LN.G n N DES
                                          Vb E B(tr(tw), si(tw)) f B(i),
                                                                                                 t
                                          Vsp E SP(v):Vsf E 5F(v, st(tW)),Vrt E RT(tr(tw)), fr )}
   * Am WAIT: set of waiting arcs for maintenance time windows
          AMWAIT    =  QfrOm       to),           r=(tw,v,ftr)      E Nf
                                             n=      (twt' +1, tr) E NMN
2.2.7 Diversion arcs
   * ALJY<->I:   set of arcs from production nodes to diversion nodes
          ALNG->D      _     fromto           j vsu. b,sp. srt)
                                              Vn" = (tw, V,f", tr(tw). g,zr, fr) E N0 1
                                              n!"" = (v , 1 rO, trO"" St) E NLN n NDES
                                              Vjv E jv(fr),Vsu E SU(j, g), Vb E B(jv, su) n B(v),
                                              Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(v),Vr E RT (trfrm,tr(tw))}
   * ADI>LNG: set of arcs from diversion nodes to production nodes
          ADI->LNG     _     frspmsfrH)
                                              WI""' = (twv,t 1""" > t(iw), ftr(w), gj zr, fr) E ND',
                                              n=      (vitt,tr,st)E NLNG nNDE3
                                              Vb E B(tr(tw)) n B(v),
                                                                                              t  )}
                                              Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(v,st),Vrf F RT(tr(tw),r
   * AD WAIT: set of waiting arcs for diversion time windows
          ADWAIT    -{frompto)          :              =
                                                       - (fo vytr(fw),g, zr f)   E NDI,
                                                    (-W,
                                                     o= Vt+1, tr(tWg         f     ND
                                                      - 87 -

2.2.8   Coloading and Split arcs
    * AREG->CL: set of arcs fhom regasification nodes to coloading nodes
      AREG->CL   _     frdnn  to(       StOsf,   1)
                                     Vn" = (tw,v~t'", trLNG(tw), St) ENC ,
                                     nfro      = (v,ci]e,trfrom,de g, zr. fr) E N              n {NDES uN      "C)
                                     Vb E B(de,g) n B(v)I
                                     Vsp E SP(v)1 Vsf E SF(v),Vri E RT(trFfrtrLNG
    * ACL->CD1: set of arcs from coloading nodes to first contracts
      ACL->CDi = {from , to,        jViSulr      29  SU2 ,Sspfr4:
                                    Vnf""" = (tw1 V, rn, trL NGur) stfrc)F                  NCL
                                     n    = (tw, v! totrPEf(tw),dci(tw9 i(tw)             zr fr, (t)st)      E ATCD  1
                                    jvi = jv(twu),Vsui E SU(jvi(tw), gi(tw)),
                                    j;2 = j 2 (tw),Vsu2 E SU(jz(tw)- g2(tw))
                                    Vb E B(jvisuj) lB(jA,su 2 ) AB(v),
                                     sp=spT0 (v), sf=sfT                =          rtTD (FLNG(tW) t         GR
    * ACD1->CD2: set of ares froin first contracts to second contracts
      A CD1->CD2        fS              , sf,       )
                                      inf     * = (tw       , t 1 "" > t 1 (tw),trREGhv
                                                                           dci(w),gi (tw), zrr      frI(tw), st") E NC
                                       P'= (twv,vot ,irfEG(tw), dc2(tw), g2(t)              zr", f r2(tw), st") E NOD,
                                      Vb E B(dei(t), g1(tw)) n B(v).
                                                                                       0                 REG
                                      sp = spL(TD         sf = sfLD(v),rt = r's          rWD(tEG
    $ ACD2->LNG: set of arcs from second contracts to production nodes
      ACD2->LNG    _ {(from     to     b. SP,      _
                                       Vaf""= {1 ,          ~       Im,NG(tw), dc2 (tw).g 2(fw), -r, fr2 (iw).,st'")) F NCD2
                                       n10 = (v       ,tr",, st") E NLNG             D
                                                                                  (NDES  UN'CH),
                                       Vb E B(& 2(w),g 2(tw)) n B(v),
                                       sp = sPTD(v), Sf = sf 57D(V),             j =ri 73%REG            to
    * ACWAT: set of waiting ares for coloading and split
                                                          -   88     -

             COW AIT      _       frm                      from =      '     .        F NCL
                                                       n"=(tfw~vd+1trsEl }
                                  fAm        tWo.        nfrm= (tw,v~t~trdezr frst) E NcOEni
                                                       n = (tw, v,t+1, tr,dcygzr frst) E NCIl}
                           uI((nf""onf")               Vrom =       (twv, tr, d,9r ,fr,st) E NCDm
                                                       no = (twv, t +1, trde,gzr fr, st) F NCD
2.2.9   Arcs between time windows
   a Listed below are the type of connections between different time windows
          outcharter -4 outcharter
          outcharter    -4    maintenance
          outcharter    -4    coloading and split
          maintenance       -    outcharter
          maintenance      -     coloading and split
          diversion  -*   outcharter
          diversion  -4   maintenance
          diversion  -+ coloading         and split
          coloading and split        -outcharter
          coloading and split        -    maintenance
          coloading and split        -    coloading and split
   0 AOCH-OCH1 set of arcs between different outchaner time windows
      AOCH->OCH      =       f(nlroms to.         bSPSfjr4
                                                     fMw              m     Vtw""),ri(twI),f           s tj fkJm)) E N CH
                                                  nt "=   (twt *    t    rorntv to, trffMtG), st 2 (fWr"")) E N0J0H,
                                                  Vb  E Btfr{w"'"), si(t                  n      ),
                                                                                                Vro
                                                  Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(v, stq(iu            ')), Vrt F RT(tr2(tw     "),tof(tio))}
   v  AOCH->MN: set of arcs from outcharter time windows to maintenance time windows
           OC
           A   H->MN_
                    = {(,.j
                 NH>A'
                               from n~to         b. sp, sf rt)
                                                               (Innn     rr       tr(tw
                                                                                 f),             1om
                                                            =                                                f(r )) E NOCH,
                                                 nt = (twQ, v,tt frT(f a"), St (iWfrM)) F N!NI
                                                 Vb E Btrtw   2 (hf    ) S             n     (),
                                                 Vsp E SP(u),Vsf E SF(v, sti(twfrm)), Vrt E RT(Fr2(twfm), fw"))}
                                                                  - 89    -

* A00*->cO: set of arcs from outcharter time windows to coloading and split time windows
  AD=Clf->CL  -      2romfL         spsf.rf)
                                 Vnf"" = (twJro,                  fr        ,                 ( frm) E NOC,
                                                                                           strong
                                 n   = (tW, v,to trLNc (ta),             St 2 (tLfrzmn))  E NCL
                                 Vb F B                  3f2trQ")ste(twf"))     R(U),
                                 VspC SP(v),Vsf E SF{u, st.(IwIro),Vrt E RTjr 2 (t"ujr"),trLC(tw"))}
* Amv->OcH: set of arcs from maintenance time windows to outcharter time windows
  AAIJN->QCH   ={fri        .O    b.BP, Sf, rt)
                                  VnW"" = {twfr"",v,         tiwf""-), tr (twf""-), si) E N"M N
                                  n = (tw v,tW ir{tuw), st(twf")) E NOCH,
                                  Vb E B(tr(twI""),sqtw"")) nB(v),
                                  Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(v, si(fl"n')),Vri E RT(tr(tvw ""), tir(iw))}
* Am, ->cL: set of arcs from maintenance time windows to coloading and split time windows
  AMJN>CL   = 1 (nfromt-o      b,%pfT):
                               Vnf romr (tW" rom nn=tttJrm)              tr(tw"f r), st) E N mN,
                               r1* = (tw%        t rLNGjfrom)                           E NCL,
                                                                                        F
                               Vb E B(tr(tr"), st(tw "')) n B(v),
                               Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(v, st(twf')), Vr E RT(tr(twf""'),                     trLNG(tWI
* ADI->": set of arcs from diversion time windows to outeharter time windows
  A=          _ {->(C frvm5lo   bspsfrt):
                                Vn"fro    = (tw"fro"nIV,     "frm  > i(ftwf""'), tr(fw"frO") ,g    r, f r) E ND;
                                   n'= (v",,     tto, ri (ew"a), stij(twto)) E NOCH,
                                Vb E B(trtw"f),sti(twW)) nlB(v),
                                Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(v,st1(tw")),Vrt E RT(tr(twl""'), tr ;(t))}
* AD'->": set of arcs from diversion time windows to maintenance time windows
  AD-MN      _ (from,,         bSPsf)
                               Vnf""' = (t""frf Vtfr"mu,         > I(tTL"""), fr(twr""'), g, zr, fr)       E NyD,
                               n' = (wt", V,il, tr(tu), st) E NMN.
                               Vb F      r      ~twv""'
                                                    ),st) n B(v),
                               Vsp E SP(v),Vsf E SF(?', st),VT EF"'),           RT(tr(ti
                                                    - 90 -

SADI->CL: set of arcs from diversion time windows to coloading and split time windows
 AD 1 ->CL  =  (fm      .nto      6, sp,sf, rt)
                                           Vafh  -m (t    mf i~n    ~m          >ttfrm), tr~          rrlpm),    izr fr) F  A\
                                  no = (twtV,        t ",  trLNG(tw 0),st)) E Nc
                                  Vb EB(tr(f         "m), st)    f   B(v),
                                  Vsp F SP(v) Vsf E SF(vst),Vrt E RT(tr(twf"m). rLNG(hzA))
  AcD2->cf:     set of arcs from coloading and split time windows to outcharter time windows
 ACD2->OCH     =      from! . tof     b.SPSf)
                                      Vn fro            f rowr     , tfrO
                                                                           m
                                                                                       twf     m     tREG (tzvfm)
                                                                                           1                               s") E NCm,
                                                               dQ(twf'*), g2(w F),                     zr. fr 2 (twfr'),
                                          n = (twzt u, t% fri(iwt), s")                 EN
                                      Vb E B(tr           (wfrom,          a') n B(v),
                                                    0                              )       =-    D    (IuEG)rfom
                                      SP =     sp S (v), sf = sf!
  AcD2->MN:    set of arcs from coloading and split time windows to maintenance time windows
    A      >    -  ((romt,           b, SPSf, r) :
                                     Vnfrom     = (pfrrom,                          t      (hMr>nfom    REG     from
                                                              dc{(wITO),          92(twfurm). zr, fr 2 (twI'")            st"t) E Nem0
                                     ntO = (twt v, ttr(fwt), stto) E NmNIv,
                                     Vb E B(tr4REG(twr-), A'O) n B(fj,
                                       sp=apSTD(v). ! = Sf TDD                          = y-SrD(t REQ (t from)               tO
  AcD2->E:    set of arcs between coloading and split time windows
 ACD2->GL     _ (nfrom, ntn         b, -PI f oi)
                                                Vn *= (twfr-, V,                  ffro  z, mt    )trREG t tfrm),
                                                             dc2(twfom) g2 (twfrm), zr, fr 2 (twfrom                     St')  ENGm,
                                      n"= (tw,          ftltrLNG          wto     Sto) E NCL,
                                    VbE B(t4rEG             fr-),     at')    fl Bou)
                                                           f=sf             (v).rt=r                      EG      from     LNG
                                    SP  =     Sp ST(v),
                                                             -91      -

3      Modeling
3.1 Notations
3.1.1     Sets
        6+(n):          set of outgoing arcs from node n;
        6-(n):          set of incoming arcs to node n;
  ((jv, su, t):         set of arcs that am loading gas from (jv, su) during time period t;
 (cm, trg, t):          set of arcs that are discharging gas for (cm, tr,y) during time period t;
        ((b, t):        set of arcs that are occupying berth b E B during time period t;
           C(v):        set of arcs that associate with ship  v;
         ((dc):         set of arcs that diseharge(load) gas to the contract de E DCDES(DCFOB);
         4(tw):         set of arcs that contribute to time window th E TW;
    ((fw 1  jt):        set of arcs that are discharging gas for diversion tw E TWV'   from  joint venture jv;
    ((tw, fr):          set of arcs that am discharging gas for diversion tw E TWI     from fiscal regime f;
       ((bfr):          set of arcs associated with base fiscal regime bfr;
   AFRSUCC:             set of billing arcs whose fiscal regime is the immediate successor of some other fiscal regimes;
CF RPREC(a) :           set of billing arcs whose fiscal regime is the immediate predecessor of the fiscal regime fra;
Note that billing arcs are loading arcs for FOB contracts and discharging arcs for DES contracts.
3.1.2    Parameters
                 pjv,.uga :      production of (O su) during time period t
                Temtgt           consumption of (cm, tr, g) during time period i
                       s~ :      the minimum and maximum capacity for storage unit su;
          _!vsu     iTu :        the minimum and maximum storage capacity for (jv, su);
      semprniempgtscnr :         the minimum and maximum storge capacity for (cm, fr,g);
            Ijar U'jVU  A        the maximum net loan or transfer allowed from (jv', su') to (jv, su)
                                 the maximum loan or transfer from (jo', s') to (jvo su) during time period t
                     V':'        the maximum divertable energy quantity from dc;
                                 the maximum over produced LNG quantity that de can take;
                    q q:         the minimum and maximum energy quantity required by dc; (including diversions)
                pd p, :          the minimum and maximum cargos required by dc; (excluding diversions)
                   qtw           the minimum and maximum energy quantity required by tw;
                                 the minimum and maximum cargos required by t;
                     qbfr:       the maximum energy quantity allowed for bfr;
 FRPRE ERP REC                   the minimum and maximum energy quantity spEcifed for
                                                              - 92 -

3.1.3 Variables
           zu :     binary variable, 1 if are a is selected; 0 o.w.; Va E A
      sjvftt:       inventory level for (jv, su) at the end of time period t
    semrg~t :       inventory level for (cm,    ,g) at the end of time period t
ly1g   a81JMt :     loan or transfer from (jv', su') to (jv, su) during time period t
          YdC:      the LNG energy quantity that is diverted from contract de, Vdc E DC
          zp :      binary variable, 1 if diversion time window fw is selected; C'o.w,; ViW E TWD"''
       ZtwJ         binary variable, 1 if diversion ft is selected by joint venture jv; 0 o.w.; Vfw E TWDIJVouv E JV(tw)
                    binary variable, 1 if diversion fw is selected by fiscal regime fr; [ o.w.; Vtw E TW"' ", fr E FR(tw)
                                                                                                           1
       Ztw,r
3.2 Formulation
    * Objective
      Social Economy
             max ( (Reva - Shpa)za                                                                      (la)
                   EA
      JV's Profit
             maxY(1 - taza). (Rea - Roya - Shp4 )18                                                     (lb)
                  aEA
      IOC's Profit
             max Y share0co (1- iaa) ,(<Reva - Roya - Shpa)a                                            (1c)
                  aEA
      NOC's Interest
             max Y(Roy, + (taz +shreNOC(I - tax,)) -(Reva - Roya - Shp,)Ix                              (ld)
                  aEA
    * Flow Conservation
                            YS         = 1,Vn E SRC                                                     (2a)
                          aE   n)
                      ,-    E     xa = 0, Vn EN                                                         (2b)
            GE6(n)       aE-n)
                            Y     Ia   = 1, Vn E SNK                                                    (2c)
                          aES-(n)
                                                           - 93  -

    a inventory Constraints
               sjp=Si'              , I + Pjv.(
                             SjU'f-1+.                  +                              p
                                                        -              a-'-ra, VjvEJVsuESU(jv),VfET
                            =  y    L'= s ry9tI    - ra.yng +         >(        ,z -1,
                                                                                        naemprg)                      (Sb)
                                                           Ven E CMINV,tr          E TR(cm),     9 E G(cm, tr),Vi E T
                     sap 5 su             ju~t,     Vjv F JVs u E SU(jv),Vt E T                                       (Sc)
                   S                sjvva uj. s.          VsuESUVtET                                                  (ad)
                       jvEJv au}
               scmyr,g       scm,rgs      -   icmtrg,  V        CMI' NV ,A E TR(an),g E G(cmtr),Vt ET                (2p)
                -Z
                     1
                       uVSei3?VU        >3{ljv'aWgt'pp        -Q
                                                                   1
                                                                     jvaitw,p}',     j   pp g3USpVS
                                                                                                                      (3f)
                                   Vjr' F    JV;, Fu SU(jo),r F/ .TJVsu' F          SU~jf,(j'.su') # (jv, su), Vt      F  T
                                 Vjr F JVE su E SU(jV), jI' E JV, S' E SU(jr), (jv' a')                  ( (e, SU)
    * Berth Constraints
                   T   rat1,VbEBL NGiT                                                                                  (4)
    * Contract Constraints
                                           &         zS ,   Pdc,         Vdc E DC                                     (5a)
            q-          yde < Y      ,     zna  <-q    +q   0            VdC EDC                                      (5b)
                                                  0 Yde C'               Vde E DC                                     (5e)
    a Fiscal Regime Precedency Contraints
                                                 Y: q'.          94,f,      Vbf r E BF                                 6a)
                                          aefbfr)
                              7, -     ., <I - x. + T1(1 -           rQ,    Va E Asucc,          E CREC               (6b)
                              PRECPRECSUC
    a Inclusive and Exclusive Time Windows
                                        r <       Pnzni, VtUII ETWEX                                                  (7a)
q,,   >3              <-                 iw,       Vtw E TWiN      uTWEX
                                                               -  94   -

    * Outcharter Constraints
              Z
            aGE(ttw}
                     za    1,Vtw E TW"O"                                                                     (8)
    * Maintenance Time Windows
              Z
            aettw)
                     x = 1,Vtwf TWVE         "                                                               (9)
    * Diversion Time Windows
                         p          (w z:  I      paT wZt,        Vtw       DIR-U                         (10a)
                                           z
                                      9 ,1,&        ew-           VtEFTWDIR                               (b)
                                             Z   Zrwj,      1,    Vtw E TWDIJV                            (1c)
                                   jvEJV(tm'}
                 pz     Ja                       TghCt,,,         Vtw E TWDIJVVjv E JVtw)                 (10d)
                              aEf(twjv)
             $~tzw~ v         S      4a-'    a&     lztmjv,       Vtw    TWDIJV Vjv E JV(tw)              (10e)
                          aE0jWJV)
                                       E         zFjr 5 1,        Viw E TW DIFR                           (10f)
                                   frEFR(tw}
                p%               (VJr' za - 4twztwjr,
                                 Y                                Vtw E TW DIFR Vfr E FR(tw)              (1og)
                              aC(twJr)
                                     4a -exa   5   ewstwqr,               B
                                                                  VwiL E TW   FRV fr E F R(tw )           (10h)
                          aEC(Iw Jr}
    * Coloading and Split Time Windows
            &'Ua Y:               p: ,        Viw E TIVC                                                   (11)
    The objective function can be selected as one of the objectives in (la) - (ld). The objective function
(Ia) considers the overall profit of the entire social economy which is simply the difference of sales revenue
and shipping cost; the objective function (ib) represents the after-tax profit for all joint ventures; the
objective function (1c) describes the profit for a specific international oil company IOC; and the objective
function (1d) represents the profit of the national oil company NOC. One of these four objectives can
be selected to optimize and in the current version, the objective is selected as maximizing the social
economics.
    Constraints (2a) - (2c) are the network flow constraints. Constraint (2a) and (2b) ensure that each
ship leaves its source node and arrives at its sink node, while constraint (2c) conserves the flow through
network.
    Constraints (3a) - (3g) enforce the inventory balance at the terminals. During a time period t, the
production inventory unit (jo, su) might have four activities: production, loaning LNG from others,
returning LNG to others and loading LNG to ships. Constraint (3a) ensures that the inventory at the
production terminals is balanced at the end of each day given these four activities. Regasification termi
nals, however, only have two activities: regasification and discharging LNG from ships. Constraint (2b)
                                                              - 95  -

guarantees the inventory at regasification terminals is balanced based on the two activities. Constraints
(3c) - (3e) put the storage limits or inventory capacities on production inventory unit (jA, su), storage
unit su and regasification inventory unit (invCm, trr,g); while constraints (3f) - (3g) put the limits on
the net loan volume and daily transfer rate between two different production inventory units.
     Constraint (4)ensures that only one ship can be operated at a berth at a time. In case a regas
terminal has two terminals, there has to be two distinct berth entries in the input file.
     Constraints (5a) - (be) guarantee that all contractual requirements are satisfied. Constraint (Sa) gives
the minimum and maximum cargo requirements for the contract while constraints (5b) put the minimum
and maximum energy quantity requirements for that contract, Two additional options of requirements
might be provided for a contract: one specifies the maximum quantity that can be diverted from the
contract and the other one specifies the maximum quantity that the contract can take ifthe jv has over
production. These options provide flexibility with regard to quantity requirements and it is reflected in
the lower and upper limits in (5b) and (5c).
     Constraints (6a) - (6) ensure that the fiscal regime of each cargo is set correctly. Constraint (6a)
specify that the energy quantity assigned to a base fiscal regime should not exceed its limit. Ifthe fiscal
regime associated with an are a has immediate preceding regime, constraint (6b) guarantees that all of
cargos assigned the preceding regime will be scheduled earlier than the cargo that is represented by a
if the arc a is selected; while constraint (6c) says that the are a can be selected only if the quantity of
precedent regime has been fulfilled.
     Constraints (7a) - (7b) provide cargo and quantity requirements for inclusive and exclusive time
windows,
     Constraint (8)ensures that the outcharter opportunity isonly taken at most once.
     Constraint (9) forces that maintenance is applied exactly once.
     Constraints (10a) - (10h) guarantee that all requirements for a diversion are satisfied if it is selected.
Constraints (10a) - (10b) give the minimum and maximum cargo and quantity requirements for diversion
opportunities that do not require unique joint venture or unique contract. Constraints (10e) - (10e) are
cargo and quantity requirements for diversions that require all cargos to be from the same joint venture;
while constraints (10f) - (lh)are for those that require all cargos to be from the same fiscal regime.
     Constraint (11) gives the minimum and maximum cargo requirements for coloading and split time
windows.
                                                       - 96  -

   CLAIMS
   1.      A computer implemented method for generating an optimized ship schedule to deliver
   liquefied natural gas (LNG) from one or more LNG liquefaction terminals to one or more
   LNG regasification terminals using a fleet of ships, comprising:
 5         obtaining input data on the LNG shipping operations;
           defining one or more objectives associated with the LNG shipping operations in a
   computer system;
           defining, one or more constraints in the computer system, wherein at least one of the
   one or more constraints is configurable to be a hard constraint or a soft constraint, wherein
10 the soft constraint permits minor violaions of the soft constraint;
           prioritizing the one or mopre constraints based on the one or more objectives;
           defining at least one of the one or more constraints to be the hard constraint based on
   the prioritization;
           defining at least one of the one or more constraints to be the soft constraint based on
15 the prioritization;
           determining one or more algorithms to optimize an LNG ship scheduling model in the
   computer system;
           calculating optimal decisions with the one or more algorithms based on the one or
   more objectives, input data, and one or more constraints in the computer system, wherein the
20 calculating optimal decisions with the one or more algorithms comprises;
           generating a feasible solution to a feasibility model, wherein the feasibility
           model is a based on the LNG ship scheduling model;
           generating an optimal solution to the feasibility model;
           calculating a soft constraint violation with respect to original constraint range
25 for one of the constraints, after generating the optimal solution to the feasibility model;
           and
           calculating a minimal violation for the calculated constraint violation; and
           using the output from the calculation to perform LNG shipping operations.
30 2.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calculating optimal
   decisions with the one or more algorithms comprises minimizing the in-chartered ships using
   an in-charter model, wherein the in-charter model is based on the LNG ship scheduling
   model, after generating the optimal solution to the feasibility model.
                                                  - 97 -

   3.       The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calculating optimal
   decisions with the one or more algorithms comprises searching for out-charter opportunities
   using an out-charter model, wherein the out-charter model is based on the LNG ship
   scheduling model, after generating the optimal solution to the feasibility model.
 5
   4.       The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calculating optimal
   decisions with the one or more algorithms comprises computing optimal solution to an
   optimality model, wherein the optimality model is based on the LNG ship scheduling model,
   after generating the optimal solution to the feasibility model.
10
   5.       The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
            identifying one of the constraints to be the soft constraint;
            relaxing the constraint range for the soft constraint; and
            defining the feasibility model with penalties for the relaxed constraint.
15
   6.       The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein a soft constraint is generated
   from the one or more constraints based on values of input data.
   7.       The computer implemented method of claim 6, wherein the soft constraint is
20 generated based on one or more of aggregated for constraints based on ratability and relaxed
   for constraints based on inventory.
   8.       The computer implemented method of claim 7, comprising adjusting a ratability
   window for the soft constraint range based on the input data.
25
   9.       The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calculating optimal
   decisions with the one or more algorithms based on the one or more objectives, input data
   and one or more constraints comprises modeling the boil-off rate for one or more of the ships
   in the fleet of ships.
30
   10.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calculating optimal
   decisions with the one or more algorithms based on the one or more objectives, input data
                                                   - 98 -

   and one or more constraints comprises computing fuel options for one or more of the ships in
   the fleet of ships.
   11.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the fleet of ships includes at
 5 least one ship that is one of leased, owned, in-chartered, and available for transport of a spot
   LNG cargo.
   12.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the optimal decisions
   comprise a ship schedule for at least one ship owned or leased by an LNG customer.
10
   13.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein creating an optimized ship
   schedule includes optimizing optionality in the LNG supply chain.
   14.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the LNG ship scheduling
15 model is an annual development plan (ADP) model.
   15.      A system for generating an optimized ship schedule to deliver liquefied natural gas
   (LNG) from one or more LNG liquefaction terminals to one or more LNG regasification
   terminals using a fleet of ships, comprising:
20          a processor;
            an input device in communication with the processor and configured to receive input
   data associated with the LNG shipping operations;
             memory in communication with the processor, the memory having a set of
   instructions, wherein the set of instructions, when executed, are configured to:
25          define one or more objectives associated with the LNG shipping operations;
            define one or more constraints, wherein one of the one or more constraints is
   configurable to be a hard constraint or a soft constraint, wherein the soft constraint is
   configured to permit minor violations of the soft constraint;
            prioritize the one or more constraints based on the one or more objectives;
30          define at least one of the one or more constraints to be the hard constraint based on
   the prioritization;
            define at least one of the one or more constraints to be the soft constraint based on the
   prioritization;
                                                  - 99 -

           determine one or more algorithms to optimize an LNG ship scheduling model;
           calculate optimal decisions with the one or more algorithms based on the one or more
   objectives, input data, and one or more constraints;
           generate a feasible solution to a feasibility model, wherein the feasibility model is a
 5 based on the LNG ship scheduling model;
           generate an optimal solution to the feasibility model;
           calculate a constraint violation of the feasibility solution using the soft constraint with
   respect to one of the one or more constraints; and
           minimize the constraint violation based on the one of the one or more constraints
10 using at least one penalty term in the objective; and
           an output device that outputs the optimized ship schedule.
   16.     The system of claim 15, wherein the set of instructions are further configured to
   minimize the in-chartered ships using an in-charter model, wherein the in-charter model is
15 based on the LNG ship scheduling model.
   17.     The system of claim 15, wherein the set of instructions are further configured to:
   search for out-charter opportunities using an out-charter model, wherein the out-charter
   model is based on the LNG ship scheduling model.
20
   18.     The system of claim 15, wherein the set of instructions are further configured to
   compute optimal solution to an optimality model, wherein the optimality model is based on
   the LNG ship scheduling model.
25 19.     The system of claim 15, wherein the set of instructions are further configured to
   calculate aggregate constraints based on input data.
   20.     The system of claim 15, wherein the set of instructions are further configured to
   model the boil-off rate for one or more of the ships in the fleet of ships.
30
   21.     The method of claim 1, further comprising determining whether to convert one of the
   one or more constraints from the hard constraint into the soft constraint.
                                                 - 100 -

   22.     The system of claim 17, wherein the set of instructions, when executed, are further
   configured to convert one of the one or more constraints from the hard constraint
   into the soft constraint.
 5 23.     A computer implemented method for generating an optimized ship schedule to deliver
   liquefied natural gas (LNG) from one or more LNG liquefaction terminals to one or more
   LNG regasification terminals using a fleet of ships, comprising:
           obtaining input data associated with LNG shipping operations;
           defining one or more objectives associated with the LNG shipping operations in a
10 computer system;
           defining one or more constraints in the computer system, wherein at least one of the
   one or more constraints is configurable to be a hard constraint or a soft constraint;
           determining one or more algorithms to optimize an LNG ship scheduling in the
   computer system;
15         obtaining a LNG ship scheduling feasibility model based on the LNG shipping
   operations;
           generating a feasible solution to the LNG ship scheduling feasibility model;
           generating an optimal solution to the LNG ship scheduling feasibility model;
           calculating a minimal level of violation for one or more constraints that are
20 configured
           to be the soft constraint from the optimal solution;
           obtaining a LNG ship scheduling optimality model;
           updating one or more constraints based on the minimal level of violation;
           calculating optimal decisions in the LNG ship scheduling optimality model with the
25 one or more algorithms based on the one or more objectives, input data and the updated one
   or
           more constraints in the computer system; and
           using the output from the calculation to perform LNG shipping operations.
                                                 - 101 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
