                     VERTICAL-BASED QUERY OPTIONALIZING
ABSTRACT
        In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a search query from a client system;
modifying the search query by removing a first search term associated with a first object type
from the search query; retrieving search results responsive to the modified search query from a
first data store storing objects of the first object type; and sending one or more of the search
results to the client system.

                               3/5
                              Search query
                             Top aggregator
                                     320
Vertical: P1 (users)    Vertical: P2 (pages)  Vertical: P3 (apps)
  Index server            Index server          Index server
       330                     330                   330
                  340 _           0_
                                   _     _340                  340
                          FIGURE 3

                                                   1
                   VERTICAL-BASED QUERY OPTIONALIZING
RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [1]    This application is related to United States Provisional Patent Application Serial
No. 13/858,775, titled "Vertical-based query optionalizing" and filed on 8 April 2013,
International Application No. PCT/US2014/032780, titled "Vertical-based query optionalizing"
and filed on 3 April 2014 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent Application
No. 2014251231, titled "Vertical-based query optionalizing" and filed on 3 April 2014 in the
name of Facebook, Inc., United States Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 15/066,333,
titled Vertical-based query optionalizing" and filed on 10 March 2016, and Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>,         titled "Vertical-based    query optionalizing" and filed on
30 August 2016 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is hereby
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herewith.
TECHNICAL FIELD
         [2]    This disclosure generally relates to database.
BACKGROUND
         [3]    A social-networking system, which may include a social-networking website,
may enable its users (such as persons or organizations) to interact with it and with each other
through it. The social-networking system may, with input from a user, create and store in the
social-networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include
demographic information, communication-channel information, and information on personal
interests of the user. The social-networking system may also, with input from a user, create and
store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social-networking system, as
well as provide services (e.g., wall posts, photo-sharing, event organization, messaging, games,
or advertisements) to facilitate social interaction between or among users.
         [4]    The social-networking system may send over one or more networks content or
messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also
install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a
user profile of the user and other data within the social-networking system. The social-

                                                      2
networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user, such
as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.
SUMMARY
         [5]     A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising, by one or
more processors of one or more computing devices:
         receiving, from a client system, a search query comprising a plurality of search terms;
         modifying the search query by removing a first search term from the search query, the
first search term being determined to be associated with a first object type of a plurality of object
types;
         retrieving first search results responsive to the modified search query from a first data
store of a plurality of data stores, the first data store storing objects of the first object type; and
         sending, to the client system in response to the search query, one or more of the first
search results.
         [6]     A second aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more computer
readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
         receive, from a client system, a search query comprising a plurality of search terms;
         modify the search query by removing a first search term from the search query, the first
search term being determined to be associated with a first object type of a plurality of object
types;
         retrieve search results responsive to the modified search query from a first data store of a
plurality of data stores, the first data store storing objects of the first object type; and
         send, to the client system in response to the search query, one or more of the search
results.
         [7]     A third aspect of the present disclosure provides a system comprising:
         one or more processors; and
         a non-transitory memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by
the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
                 receive, from a client system, a search query comprising a plurality of search
         terms;

                                                      3
                  modify the search query by removing a first search term from the search query,
         the first search term being determined to be associated with a first object type of a
        plurality of object types;
                  retrieve search results responsive to the modified search query from a first data
         store of a plurality of data stores, the first data store storing objects of the first object
        type; and
                  send, to the client system in response to the search query, one or more of the
         search results.
         [8]      Particular embodiments describe methods for optimizing a search query by
identifying a search term in the search query, and modifying the search query by optionalizing
the search term. In particular embodiments, one or more computing devices may receive a
search query, and identify in the search query a search term associated with a first object type of
a plurality of object types. The computing devices may modify the search query by optionalizing
the search term in the search query.         The computing devices may send the search query as
modified for execution against a first data storing objects of the first object type. The computing
devices may also send the search query without the modification for execution against a second
data store storing objects of a second object type of the object types, and aggregate first results
from execution of the search query as modified with second search results from execution of the
search query without the modification.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [9]      FIGURE 1 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
         [10]     FIGURE 2 illustrates an example social graph.
         [11]     FIGURE 3 illustrates an example partitioning for storing objects of a social
networking system.
         [12]     FIGURE 4 illustrates an example method for optimizing a search query.
         [13]     FIGURE 5 illustrates an example computer system.

                                                  4
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
         [14]    FIGURE 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated with a
social-networking system. Network environment 100 includes a user 101, a client system 130, a
social-networking system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to each other by a
network 110. Although FIGURE 1 illustrates a particular arrangement of user 101, client system
 130, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable arrangement of user 101, client system 130, social-networking system
 160, third-party system 170, and network 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, two
or more of client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third-party system 170 may be
connected to each other directly, bypassing network 110. As another example, two or more of
client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third-party system 170 may be physically
or logically co-located with each other in whole or in part. Moreover, although FIGURE 1
illustrates a particular number of users 101, client systems 130, social-networking systems 160,
third-party systems 170, and networks 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable number of
users 101, client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and
networks 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, network environment 100 may
include multiple users 101, client system 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party
systems 170, and networks 110.
         [15]    In particular embodiments, user 101 may be an individual (human user), an entity
(e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or a group (e.g., of individuals or
entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system 160. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a network-addressable computing system
hosting an online social network. Social-networking system 160 may generate, store, receive,
and send social-networking data, such as, for example, user-profile data, concept-profile data,
social-graph information, or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social
networking system 160 may be accessed by the other components of network environment 100
either directly or via network 110. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may
include an authorization server (or other suitable component(s)) that allows users 101 to opt in to
or opt out of having their actions logged by social-networking system 160 or shared with other
systems (e.g., third-party systems 170), for example, by setting appropriate privacy settings. A
privacy setting of a user may determine what information associated with the user may be

                                                 5
logged, how information associated with the user may be logged, when information associated
with the user may be logged, who may log information associated with the user, whom
information associated with the user may be shared with, and for what purposes information
associated with the user may be logged or shared. Authorization servers may be used to enforce
one or more privacy settings of the users of social-networking system 160 through blocking, data
hashing, anonymization, or other suitable techniques as appropriate. In particular embodiments,
third-party system 170 may be a network-addressable computing system that can host websites
and applications. Third-party system 170 may generate, store, receive, and send third-party
system data, such as, for example, web pages, text, images, video, audio, or applications. Third
party system 170 may be accessed by the other components of network environment 100 either
directly or via network 110. In particular embodiments, one or more users 101 may use one or
more client systems 130 to access, send data to, and receive data from social-networking system
 160 or third-party system 170. Client system 130 may access social-networking system 160 or
third-party system 170 directly, via network 110, or via a third-party system. As an example and
not by way of limitation, client system 130 may access third-party system 170 via social
networking system 160. Client system 130 may be any suitable computing device, such as, for
example, a personal computer, a laptop computer, a cellular telephone, a smartphone, or a tablet
computer.
         [16]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless
LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network
(PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these. Network 110
may include one or more networks 110.
         [17]   Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160, and
third-party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 include
one or more wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable
Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for example Synchronous

                                                   6
Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular
embodiments, one or more links 150 each include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a
VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the
PSTN, a cellular technology-based network, a satellite communications technology-based
network, another link 150, or a combination of two or more such links 150. Links 150 need not
necessarily be the same throughout network environment 100. One or more first links 150 may
differ in one or more respects from one or more second links 150.
         [18]   FIGURE 2 illustrates example social graph 200. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may store one or more social graphs 200 in one or more data
stores. In particular embodiments, social graph 200 may include multiple nodes-which may
include multiple user nodes 202 or multiple concept nodes 204-and multiple edges 206
connecting the nodes. Example social graph 200 illustrated in FIGURE 2 is shown, for didactic
purposes, in a two-dimensional visual map representation. In particular embodiments, a social
networking system 160, client system 130, or third-party system 170 may access social graph
200 and related social-graph information for suitable applications. The nodes and edges of social
graph 200 may be stored as data objects, for example, in a data store (such as a social-graph
database). Such a data store may include one or more searchable or queryable indexes of nodes
or edges of social graph 200.
         [19]   In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to a user of social
networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user may be an individual
(human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or a group (e.g.,
of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system
 160. In particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with social-networking
system 160, social-networking system 160 may create a user node 202 corresponding to the user,
and store the user node 202 in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes 202 described
herein may, where appropriate, refer to registered users and user nodes 202 associated with
registered users. In addition or as an alternative, users and user nodes 202 described herein may,
where appropriate, refer to users that have not registered with social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated with information provided by a user
or information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, a user may provide his or her name, profile picture,

                                                 7
contact information, birth date, sex, marital status, family status, employment, education
background,     preferences,   interests, or  other  demographic     information.    In   particular
embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to
information associated with a user. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond
to one or more webpages.
         [20]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to a concept. As
an example and not by way of limitation, a concept may correspond to a place (such as, for
example, a movie theater, restaurant, landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example, a
website associated with social-network system 160 or a third-party website associated with a
web-application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group, sports team,
or celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video file, digital photo, text file,
structured document, or application) which may be located within social-networking system 160
or on an external server, such as a web-application server; real or intellectual property (such as,
for example, a sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or written work); a
game; an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more such concepts. A
concept node 204 may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or
information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, information of a concept may include a name or a title;
one or more images (e.g., an image of the cover page of a book); a location (e.g., an address or a
geographical location); a website (which may be associated with a URL); contact information
(e.g., a phone number or an email address); other suitable concept information; or any suitable
combination of such information. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may be
associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept
node 204. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to one or more
webpages.
         [21]   In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 200 may represent or be
represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page"). Profile pages may be
hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 160. Profile pages may also be hosted on
third-party websites associated with a third-party server 170. As an example and not by way of
limitation, a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular
external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node 204. Profile

                                                   8
pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way
of limitation, a user node 202 may have a corresponding user-profile page in which the
corresponding user may add content, make declarations, or otherwise express himself or herself.
As another example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 204 may have a corresponding
concept-profile page in which one or more users may add content, make declarations, or express
themselves, particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node 204.
         [22]  In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may represent a third-party
webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 170. The third-party webpage or resource
may include, among other elements, content, a selectable or other icon, or other inter-actable
object (which may be implemented, for example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP codes)
representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a third-party
webpage may include a selectable icon such as "like," "check in," "eat,". "recommend," or
another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage may perform an
action by selecting one of the icons (e.g., "eat"), causing a client system 130 to send to social
networking system 160 a message indicating the user's action. In response to the message,
social-networking system 160 may create an edge (e.g., an "eat" edge) between a user node 202
corresponding to the user and a concept node 204 corresponding to the third-party webpage or
resource and store edge 206 in one or more data stores.
         [23]  In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 200 may be connected
to each other by one or more edges 206. An edge 206 connecting a pair of nodes may represent a
relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments, an edge 206 may include or
represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair
of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may indicate that a second user
is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication, social-networking system 160 may
send a "friend request" to the second user. If the second user confirms the "friend request,"
social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206 connecting the first user's user node 202
to the second user's user node 202 in social graph 200 and store edge 206 as social-graph
information in one or more of data stores 164. In the example of FIGURE 2, social graph 200
includes an edge 206 indicating a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "A" and user
"B" and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "C" and user "B."
Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges 206 with particular attributes

                                                  9
connecting particular user nodes 202, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with
any suitable attributes connecting user nodes 202. As an example and not by way of limitation,
an edge 206 may represent a friendship, family relationship, business or employment
relationship, fan relationship, follower relationship, visitor relationship, subscriber relationship,
superior/subordinate relationship, reciprocal relationship, non-reciprocal relationship, another
suitable type of relationship, or two or more such relationships. Moreover, although this
disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected, this disclosure also describes users or
concepts as being connected. Herein, references to users or concepts being connected may,
where appropriate, refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected
in social graph 200 by one or more edges 206.
         [24]   In particular embodiments, an edge 206 between a user node 202 and a concept
node 204 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user
node 202 toward a concept associated with a concept node 204. As an example and not by way
of limitation, as illustrated in FIGURE 2, a user may "like," "attended," "played," "listened,"
"cooked," "worked at," or "watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to a edge type or
subtype. A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 204 may include, for example,
a selectable "check in" icon (such as, for example, a clickable "check in" icon) or a selectable
"add to favorites" icon. Similarly, after a user clicks these icons, social-networking system 160
may create a "favorite" edge or a "check in" edge in response to a user's action corresponding to
a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation, a user (user "C") may
listen to a particular song ("Imagine") using a particular application (SPOTIFY, which is an
online music application). In this case, social-networking system 160 may create a "listened"
edge 206 and a "used" edge (as illustrated in FIGURE 2) between user nodes 202 corresponding
to the user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the
user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover, social-networking system 160 may
create a "played" edge 206 (as illustrated in FIGURE 2) between concept nodes 204
corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by
the particular application. In this case, "played" edge 206 corresponds to an action performed by
an external application (SPOTIFY) on an external audio file (the song "Imagine"). Although this
disclosure describes particular edges 206 with particular attributes connecting user nodes 202
and concept nodes 204, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any suitable

                                                10
attributes connecting user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204. Moreover, although this disclosure
describes edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 representing a single
relationship, this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204
representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation, an edge 206
may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively, another
edge 206 may represent each type of relationship (or multiples of a single relationship) between
a user node 202 and a concept node 204 (as illustrated in FIGURE 2 between user node 202 for
user "E" and concept node 204 for "SPOTIFY").
         [25]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206
between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 in social graph 200. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile page (such as, for example, by using a web
browser or a special-purpose application hosted by the user's client system 130) may indicate
that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node 204 by clicking or selecting a
"Like" icon, which may cause the user's client system 130 to send to social-networking system
 160 a message indicating the user's liking of the concept associated with the concept-profile
page. In response to the message, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206 between
user node 202 associated with the user and concept node 204, as illustrated by "like" edge 206
between the user and concept node 204. In particular embodiments, social-networking system
 160 may store an edge 206 in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments, an edge 206
may be automatically formed by social-networking system 160 in response to a particular user
action. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a
movie, or listens to a song, an edge 206 may be formed between user node 202 corresponding to
the first user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure
describes forming particular edges 206 in particular manners, this disclosure contemplates
forming any suitable edges 206 in any suitable manner.
         [26]   In addition, the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the
minimum number of hops (or edges) required to traverse the social graph from one node to the
other. A degree of separation between two nodes can be considered a measure of relatedness
between the users or the concepts represented by the two nodes in the social graph.
         [27]   As described earlier, a social-networking      system may store social-graph
information and other social-networking system related information in one or more data stores.

                                                 11
In particular embodiments, the information stored in the data stores may be organized according
to specific data structures. Each data store may be a relational, columnar, correlation, or other
suitable database. Particular embodiments contemplate any suitable types of database. Particular
embodiments may provide interfaces that enable the social-networking system, a client system,
or a third-party system to manage, retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the information stored in the
data stores.
         [28]   In addition, a database may be divided into a number of partitions. Each partition
may be held by separate servers or at separate physical locations. As the index for each partition
of a database is smaller than the index for the overall database, the partitioning may improve
performance in accessing the database. As the partitions may be distributed over a large number
of servers (while each partition may be duplicated at geographically diverse locations), the
partitioning may also improve performance and reliability in accessing the database. A database
may be partitioned by storing rows (or columns) of the database separately. A database may also
be partitioned by using a hashing algorithm. A database may also be partitioned by some real
world segmentation of the data held by the database (e.g., customers in each time zone of the
United States). Particular embodiments may partition storage of a collection of data based on
object types. Particular embodiments may store data objects in a plurality of partitions, while
each partition holding data objects of a single object type.
         [29]   FIGURE 3 illustrates an example partitioning for storing objects of a social
networking system, or any suitable system storing a collection of data.         In the examples of
FIGURE 3, a plurality of data stores or verticals (e.g., P1, P2, P3, and so on) may store objects of
a social-networking system. In particular embodiments, each data store may be configured to
store objects of a particular one of a plurality of object types in respective data storage devices
340. An object type may be user, web page, application, group, music, photo, video, post, news,
question, comment, event, message, offer (e.g., coupon), and review. Particular embodiments
contemplate any suitable object types for a social-networking system or any system storing a
collection of data. For example, vertical P1 illustrated in FIGURE 3 may store user objects;
vertical P2 may store web page objects; vertical P3 may store application objects. That is, each
data store may store objects of a single object type. In particular embodiments, objects stored in
each data store or vertical may be indexed by a search index. The search index may be hosted by
respective index server 330 comprising one or more computing devices (e.g., servers).

                                                  12
         [30]   In particular embodiments, a server process hosted by one or more computing
devices (e.g., servers of the social-networking system) may store objects in the verticals
illustrated in FIGURE 3. The server process may receive an object, and identify an object type
of the received object. For example, the server process may receive an application uploaded to
the social-networking system by a particular user, and identify an object type (e.g., application)
of the application. The server process may assign an identifier (e.g., a character string) to the
received application. In addition, the server process may determine information associated with
the received object. For example, the server process may determine one or more users using the
application, a comment about the application, or a location of the application. The server process
may store the received object in at least a particular data store configured to store objects of the
identified object type. For example, the server process may store the received application in the
application vertical P3 illustrated in FIGURE 3.       The server process may store information
associated with the received object in the particular data store. The server process may updated
the search index of the particular data store based on at least in part on the received object.
         [31]   In some embodiments, the received object (e.g., the received application) may
correspond to a particular node of a social graph of the social-networking system.           An edge
connecting the particular node and another node may indicate a relationship between the
received object and a user (or concept) corresponding to the other node. That is, the server
process may store in the particular data store (of the identified object type) information of the
received object, and information of one or more edges connecting a node corresponding to the
received object in the social graph. The server process may update the search index of the data
store based on the received object, and relationships (i.e., edges) associated with the received
object.
         [32]   A user or a computing process may submit a search query to a vertical illustrated
in FIGURE 3 for execution, causing the index server of the vertical to retrieve and return one or
more search results for the search query. The index server may retrieve search results using the
search query in its entirety. However, search results based on the entire search query may not be
optimal. For example, a user may submit a search query "farmville app" to look for a game
application named "farmville."     If the entire search query "farmville app" is submitted to the
application vertical P3 illustrated in FIGURE 3, the index server of the application vertical P3
may not return matched results, as the application vertical P3 may only store application objects

                                                  13
such as "farmville" or "farmville 2", but not an application object "farmville app."             In
comparison, if a search query "farmville" is submitted to the application vertical P3, the index
server of the application vertical P3 may return matched results (e.g., applications "farmville"
and "farmville 2"). That is, a search query may yield better search results if one or more terms in
the search query is removed or made optional when the search query is submitted to a particular
vertical.     Particular embodiments     describe methods for optimizing a search query by
optionalizing a search term in the search query. Particular embodiments may identify in a search
query a search term and its corresponding vertical, modify the search query by optionalizing the
search term, and send the modified search query to the corresponding vertical for execution.
         [33]    FIGURE 4 illustrates an example method 400 for optimizing a search query. The
method 400 may be implemented by an aggregator process (e.g., top aggregator 320 illustrated in
FIGURE 3) hosted by one or more computing devices (e.g., servers) of the social-networking
system, or any suitable system comprising one or more database. The method may begin at step
410. In particular embodiments, at step 410, the aggregator process may receive a search query.
For example, the aggregator process may receive a search query as illustrated in FIGURE 3. The
search query may comprise a text string. The search query may be a structured or substantially
unstructured text string submitted by a user via a PHP process (or another process of the social
networking system). The search query may be a text string such as "farmville app", "becks
company", "lake tahoe", or "the US President."
         [34]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system may specify one or more
search terms that may be made optional in a search query submitted to a particular vertical for
execution.     For example, the social-networking system may specify search terms "app",
"application", and "game" that may be made optional in a search query submitted to the
application vertical P3.       The social-networking system may specify search terms "page",
"pages", "company", "about", and "com" that may be made optional in a search query submitted
to the page vertical P2. The social-networking system may specify search terms "friend" and
"person" that may be made optional in a search query submitted to the user vertical Pl. The
social-networking system may also specify search terms "group" and "groups" that may be made
optional in a search query submitted to a data store storing objects of a group object type. In
particular embodiments, at step 420, the aggregator process may identify in the search query a
search term associated with a first object type of a plurality of object types.        That is, the

                                                 14
aggregator process may identify in the search query a search term corresponding to a particular
vertical storing objects of the first object type. The search term may be made optional in a
search query submitted to the particular vertical for execution.
        [35]    In particular embodiments, at step 430, the aggregator process may modify the
search query by optionalizing the search term in the search query. The aggregator process may
optionalize the search term by removing the search term from the search query.      For example,
the aggregator process may identify in a search query "farmville app" a search term "app" that is
associated with an application object type. The aggregator process may optionalize the search
term "app" by removing the search term from the search query. That is, the aggregator process
may modify the search query as "farmville."      For another example, the aggregator process may
receive a search query "becks company" (e.g., from a user looking for a company named "Beck"
or "Beck's").    The aggregator process may identify in the search query "becks company" a
search term "company" that is associated with a web page object type. The aggregator process
may optionalize the search term "company" by removing the search term from the search query.
That is, the aggregator process may modify the search query as "becks." In one embodiment, the
aggregator process may remove from a search query one or more stop words such as "a", "an",
or "the." For example, the aggregator process may remove "the" from a search query "the US
President."
        [36]    In other embodiments, the aggregator process may optionalize the search term by
assigning a value to the search term in the search query. The search query as modified may
require, from execution of the search query as modified, a ratio of results matching the search
term to all results exceeding the value. For example, the aggregator process may assign a value
of 0.2 to the search term "app" in the search query "farmville app." The aggregator process may
modify the search query as "farmville app 0.2." The modified search query "farmville app 0.2"
may requires that 20% (i.e., 0.2) of search results must match the search term "app", while the
remaining 80% of the search results may omit that search term. That is, if there are 100 search
results of the modified search query "farmville app 0.2", then 20 results must match the search
term "app", while 80 results may match only the rest of the search query (i.e., "farmville"). For
another example, the aggregator process may receive a search query "lake tahoe."              The
aggregator process may identify in the search query "lake tahoe" a search term "lake" that is
associated a web page object type. The aggregator process may assign a value of 0.4 to the

                                                  15
search term "lake" in the search query "lake tahoe." The modified search query "lake 0.4 tahoe"
may requires that 40% of the search results must match the search term "lake", while the
remaining 60% of the search results may omit that search term. That is, if there are 100 search
results of the modified search query "lake 0.4 tahoe", then 40 results must match the search term
"lake", while 60 results may match only the rest of the search query (i.e., "tahoe").
         [37]   In particular embodiments, at step 440, the aggregator process may send the
search query as modified for execution against a first data store storing objects of the first object
type.   That is, the aggregator process may send the search query as modified for execution
against the vertical corresponding to the identified search term. For example, for the search
query "farmville app" with the identified search term "app" that is associated with the
application object type, the aggregator process may send the modified search query "farmville"
(or "farmville app 0.2") to the application vertical P3 illustrated in FIGURE 3. As described
earlier, the modified search query may yield better search results, as it is more likely that the
application vertical P3 store application objects with names comprising "farmville", while it is
less likely that the application vertical P3 store application objects with names "farmville app."
For another example, for the search query "becks company" with the identified search term
"company" that is associated with the web page object type, the aggregator process may send the
modified search query "becks" to the page vertical P2 illustrated in FIGURE 3. For another
example, for the search query "lake tahoe" with the identified search term "lake" that is
associated with the web page object type, the aggregator process may send the modified search
query "lake 0.4 tahoe" to the page vertical P2 illustrated in FIGURE 3.
         [38]   In addition to sending the search query as modified for execution against the first
data store storing objects of the first object type, in particular embodiments, the aggregator
process may send the search query without the modification for execution against a second data
store storing objects of a second object type of the object types. That is, in addition to sending
the search query as modified to a data store storing objects of the (identified) first object type,
the aggregator process may send the search query without the modification to other data stores
each storing objects of an object type different from the first object type.      For example, the
aggregator process may send the unmodified search query "farmville app" to the users vertical
P1 or to the page vertical P2 illustrated in FIGURE 3.        For another example, the aggregator
process may send the unmodified search query "becks company" to the user vertical P1 or to the

                                                   16
application vertical P3 illustrated in FIGURE 3.            The aggregator process may send the
unmodified search query "lake tahoe" to the user vertical P1 or to the application vertical P3
illustrated in FIGURE 3.
         [39]   In particular embodiments, the aggregator process may aggregate first results
from execution of the search query as modified with second search results from execution of the
search query without the modification.        For example, for the search query "farmville app"
described above, the aggregator process man aggregate a first list of search results retrieved from
the application vertical P3 (based on the modified search query "farmville" or "farmville app
0.2") and a second list of search results retrieved from the user vertical P1 and the page vertical
P2 (based on the unmodified search query "farmville app").            The aggregator process may
aggregate the first and second list of search results by applying an OR operator to the first and
second list of search results. That is, the aggregated results are a union of the search results in
the first and the second lists. In addition, in particular embodiments, the aggregator process may
rank the aggregated results based at least in part on the first search results. For example, the
aggregator process may rank the first search results (e.g., retrieved from the application vertical
P3 based on the modified search query "farmville" or "farmville app 0.2") higher than the second
search results (e.g., retrieved from the user vertical P1 and the page vertical P2 based on the
unmodified search query "farmville app").
         [40]   Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIGURE
4, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the
method of FIGURE 4 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
steps of the method of FIGURE 4 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out
particular steps of the method of FIGURE 4, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of
the method of FIGURE 4.
         [41]   FIGURE 5 illustrates         an example      computer system 500.     In particular
embodiments, one or more computer systems 500 perform one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer
systems 500 provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments,
software running on one or more computer systems 500 performs one or more steps of one or

                                                  17
more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated
herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems
500. Herein, reference to a computer system may encompass a computing device, and vice versa,
where appropriate. Moreover, reference to a computer system may encompass one or more
computer systems, where appropriate.
         [42]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 500. This
disclosure contemplates computer system 500 taking any suitable physical form. As example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may be an embedded computer system, a system
on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on
module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile
telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA),        a server, a tablet computer system, or a
combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system 500 may include one
or more computer systems 500; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple
machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud
components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 500
may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more
computer systems 500 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or
more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 500 may perform
at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein, where appropriate.
         [43]   In particular embodiments, computer system 500 includes a processor 502,
memory 504, storage 506, an input/output (I/O) interface 508, a communication interface 510,
and a bus 512. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system
having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable
components in any suitable arrangement.
         [44]   In particular embodiments, processor 502 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 502 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an

                                                 18
internal register, an internal cache, memory 504, or storage 506; decode and execute them; and
then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 504, or storage
506. In particular embodiments, processor 502 may include one or more internal caches for data,
instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 502 including any suitable
number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 502 may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches,
and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may
be copies of instructions in memory 504 or storage 506, and the instruction caches may speed up
retrieval of those instructions by processor 502. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in
memory 504 or storage 506 for instructions executing at processor 502 to operate on; the results
of previous instructions executed at processor 502 for access by subsequent instructions
executing at processor 502 or for writing to memory 504 or storage 506; or other suitable data.
The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 502. The TLBs may speed
up virtual-address translation for processor 502. In particular embodiments, processor 502 may
include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure
contemplates processor 502 including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers,
where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 502 may include one or more arithmetic logic
units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 502. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable processor.
         [45]   In particular embodiments, memory 504 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 502 to execute or data for processor 502 to operate on. As an example
and not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may load instructions from storage 506 or
another source (such as, for example, another computer system 500) to memory 504. Processor
502 may then load the instructions from memory 504 to an internal register or internal cache. To
execute the instructions, processor 502 may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or
internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor 502 may
write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or
internal cache. Processor 502 may then write one or more of those results to memory 504. In
particular embodiments, processor 502 executes only instructions in one or more internal
registers or internal caches or in memory 504 (as opposed to storage 506 or elsewhere) and

                                                   19
operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 504 (as
opposed to storage 506 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an
address bus and a data bus) may couple processor 502 to memory 504. Bus 512 may include one
or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory
management units (MMUs) reside between processor 502 and memory 504 and facilitate
accesses to memory 504 requested by processor 502. In particular embodiments, memory 504
includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate
Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM).
Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 504 may include one or more memories
504, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
         [46]    In particular embodiments, storage 506 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 506 may include a hard disk
drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc,
magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these.
Storage 506 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate.
Storage 506 may be internal or external to computer system 500, where appropriate. In particular
embodiments, storage 506 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments,
storage 506 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask
programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically
erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a
combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 506 taking any
suitable physical form. Storage 506 may include one or more storage control units facilitating
communication between processor 502 and storage 506, where appropriate. Where appropriate,
storage 506 may include one or more storages 506. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
         [47]    In particular embodiments, 1/0 interface 508 includes hardware, software, or both,
providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 500 and one or
more 1/0 devices. Computer system 500 may include one or more of these I/O devices, where
appropriate. One or more of these 1/0 devices may enable communication between a person and

                                                 20
computer system 500. As an example and not by way of limitation, an 1/0 device may include a
keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus,
tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I/O device or a combination of two
or more of these. An 1/0 device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable I/O devices and any suitable I/O interfaces 508 for them. Where appropriate, 1/0
interface 508 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor 502 to
drive one or more of these 1/0 devices. 1/0 interface 508 may include one or more I/O interfaces
508, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I/O
interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable 1/0 interface.
         [48]    In particular embodiments, communication interface 510 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 500 and one or more other computer
systems 500 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation,
communication interface 510 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC
(WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI
network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication
interface 510 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 500 may
communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network
(LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or
more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 500 may
communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a
WI-FL network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a
Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network
or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system 500 may include any suitable
communication interface 510 for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication
interface 510 may include one or more communication interfaces 510, where appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

                                                 21
         [49]   In particular embodiments, bus 512 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
components of computer system 500 to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation,
bus 512 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced
Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT
(HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect,
a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a
Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced
technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus,
or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 512 may include one or
more buses 512, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular
bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
         [50]   Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may include
one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for example, field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives
(HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical
discs, magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes, solid
state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any other suitable
computer-readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable combination of two or more of
these, where appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile,
non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
         [51]   Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise
or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or both," unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, "and" is both joint
and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore,
herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context.
         [52]   The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a
person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not
limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular

                                                    22
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may include
any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, functions, operations, or
steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would
comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a
component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to,
enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus,
system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or
unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable,
configured, enabled, operable, or operative.
Further Embodiments
        [53]     One embodiment provides a method comprising:
        by one or more computing devices, receiving a search query;
        by one or more computing devices, identifying in the search query a search term
associated with a first object type of a plurality of object types;
        by one or more computing devices, modifying the search query by optionalizing the
search term in the search query; and
        by one or more computing devices, sending the search query as modified for execution
against a first data store storing objects of the first object type.
        [54]     In one arrangement, the method further comprises, by one or more computing
devices:
        sending the search query without the modification for execution against a second data
store storing objects of a second object type of the object types; and
        aggregating first results from execution of the search query as modified with second
search results from execution of the search query without the modification.
        [55]     In one arrangement, the method further comprises, by one or more computing
devices, ranking the search results as aggregated based at least in part on the first search results.
        [56]     In one arrangement, modifying the search query by optionalizing the search term
comprises removing the search term from the search query.
        [57]     In one arrangement, modifying the search query by optionalizing the search term
comprises assigning a value to the search term in the search query, the search query as modified

                                                  23
requiring, from execution of the search query as modified, a ratio of results matching the search
term to all results exceeding the value.
         [58]    In one arrangement, an object type is user, web page, application, or group.
         [59]    In one arrangement, a social-networking system comprises the computing devices
and the first data store.
         [60]    Another embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory
storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
        receive a search query;
        identify in the search query a search term associated with a first object type of a plurality
of object types;
        modify the search query by optionalizing the search term in the search query; and
         send the search query as modified for execution against a first data store storing objects
of the first object type.
         [61]    In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
         send the search query without the modification for execution against a second data store
storing objects of a second object type of the object types; and
         aggregate first results from execution of the search query as modified with second search
results from execution of the search query without the modification.
         [62]    In one arrangement, the software is further operable when executed to:
        rank the search results as aggregated based at least in part on the first search results.
         [63]    In one arrangement, to modify the search query by optionalizing the search term,
the software is operable when executed to remove the search term from the search query.
         [64]    In one arrangement, to modify the search query by optionalizing the search term,
the software is operable when executed to assign a value to the search term in the search query,
the search query as modified requiring, from execution of the search query as modified, a ratio of
results matching the search term to all results exceeding the value.
         [65]    In one arrangement, an object type is user, web page, application, or group.
         [66]    In one arrangement, a social-networking system comprises the computing devices
and the first data store.
         [67]    A further embodiment provides a system comprising:
        one or more processors; and

                                                  24
         a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
                 receive a search query;
                 identify in the search query a search term associated with a first object type of a
plurality of object types;
                 modify the search query by optionalizing the search term in the search query; and
                 send the search query as modified for execution against a first data store storing
objects of the first object type.
         [68]    In one arrangement, the processors are further operable when executing the
instructions to:
         send the search query without the modification for execution against a second data store
storing objects of a second object type of the object types; and
         aggregate first results from execution of the search query as modified with second search
results from execution of the search query without the modification.
         [69]    In one arrangement, the processors are further operable when executing the
instructions to rank the search results as aggregated based at least in part on the first search
results.
         [70]    In one arrangement, to modify the search query by optionalizing the search term,
the processors are operable when executing the instructions to remove the search term from the
search query.
         [71]    In one arrangement, to modify the search query by optionalizing the search term,
the processors are operable when executing the instructions to assign a value to the search term
in the search query, the search query as modified requiring, from execution of the search query
as modified, a ratio of results matching the search term to all results exceeding the value.
         [72]    In one arrangement, an object type is user, web page, application, or group.

                                                     25
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1. A method comprising, by one or more processors of one or more computing devices:
         receiving, from a client system, a search query comprising a plurality of search terms;
         modifying the search query by removing a first search term from the search query, the
first search term being determined to be associated with a first object type of a plurality of object
types;
         retrieving first search results responsive to the modified search query from a first data
store of a plurality of data stores, the first data store storing objects of the first object type; and
         sending, to the client system in response to the search query, one or more of the first
search results.
         2. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
         accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges
connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of
separation between them, the nodes comprising:
                  a first node corresponding to a first user of the client system, wherein the first user
         is a user of an online social network; and
                  a plurality of second nodes corresponding to a plurality of objects associated with
         the online social network, respectively.
         3. The method of Claim 2, wherein the first data store further comprises information
about one or more edges connecting one or more second nodes corresponding to one or more
objects of the first object type with one or more other nodes of the social graph.
         4. The method of either one of Claim 2 and Claim 3, wherein each of the one or more
search results sent to the client system corresponds to one or more of the second nodes.
         5. The method of any one of Claims 2 to 4, further comprising updating the first data
store when a new object is received by the online social network, the updating of the first data
store comprising an update of information about one or more edges connecting a second node
corresponding to the new object to the first node.

                                                    26
         6. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 5, further comprising:
         sending the search query without the modification for execution against a second data
store storing objects of a second object type of the plurality of object types; and
         aggregating the first search results with second search results from the execution against
the second data store of the search query without the modification.
         7. The method of Claim 6, further comprising ranking the aggregated search results based
at least in part on the first search results.
         8. The method of Claim 7, wherein the first search results are ranked higher than the
second search results.
         9. The method of any one of Claims I to 8, wherein the plurality of data stores comprises
objects of a plurality of object types, each data store comprising only objects of a single object
type.
         10. The method of any one of Claims I to 9, further comprising:
         identifying an object type of an object;
         assigning an identifier to the object; and
         storing the object in a data store configured to store objects of the identified object type.
         11. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein modifying the search query further
comprises:
         assigning a value to a second search term from the search query; and
         requiring a percentage of search results to match the second search term, the percentage
being equal to the assigned value.
         12. The method of any one of Claims I to 11, further comprising sending the search
query for execution against the first data store using an aggregator process of a social-networking
system.

                                                     27
         13. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein the first object type is user, web
page, application, or group.
         14. The method of any one of Claims I to 13, wherein the one or more computing
devices and the plurality of data stores are associated with a social-networking system.
          15. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software
that is operable when executed to:
         receive, from a client system, a search query comprising a plurality of search terms:
         modify the search query by removing a first search term from the search query, the first
search term being determined to be associated with a first object type of a plurality of object
types;
         retrieve search results responsive to the modified search query from a first data store of a
plurality of data stores, the first data store storing objects of the first object type; and
         send, to the client system in response to the search query, one or more of the search
results.
          16. The media of Claim 15, wherein the software is further operable when executed to:
         send the search query without the modification for execution against a second data store
storing objects of a second object type of the plurality of object types; and
         aggregate the first search results with second search results from the execution against the
second data store of the search query without the modification.
         17. The media of either one of Claim 15 and Claim 16, wherein to modify the search
query, the software is operable when executed to:
         assign a value to a second search term from the search query; and
         require a percentage of the search results to match the second search term, the percentage
being equal to the assigned value.

                                                     28
        18. A system comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        a non-transitory memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by
the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
                 receive, from a client system, a search query comprising a plurality of search
        terms;
                 modify the search query by removing a first search term from the search query,
        the first search term being determined to be associated with a first object type of a
        plurality of object types;
                 retrieve search results responsive to the modified search query from a first data
        store of a plurality of data stores, the first data store storing objects of the first object
        type; and
                 send, to the client system in response to the search query, one or more of the
        search results.
        19. The system of Claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are further operable
when executing instructions to:
        send the search query without the modification for execution against a second data store
storing objects of a second object type of the plurality of object types; and
        aggregate the first search results with second search results from the execution against the
second data store of the search query without the modification.
        20. The system of either one of Claim 18 and Claim 19, wherein to modify the search
query, the one or more processors are operable when executing instructions to:
        assign a value to a second search term from the search query; and
        require a percentage of the search results to match the second search term, the percentage
being equal to the assigned value.
                                          Facebook, Inc.
                                  By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                       QCOTTERS
                                    Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
