                                        Abstract
                               Agrochemical Concentrates
An agrochemical formulation comprising a structurant, surfactant adjuvant, and optionally
an agrochemical active and/or nutrient. The structurant is a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16
dicarboxylic acid, and may be obtainable by the reaction of C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid, C2
to C8 polyol, and C16 to C30 monocarboxylic fatty acid. There is also provided a method of
making the concentrate.       The structurant is suitable for use in concentrates and
agrochemical formulations to provide structuring in adjuvant based systems.

                                                                                       P/00/011
                                                                                  Regulation 3.2
                                       AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                   COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                       ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        Croda International PLC
Actual Inventor(s):       Kathryn Marie KNIGHT
                          James Alexander FLAVELL
Address for Service:      Houlihan 2, Level     1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North,
                         Victoria 3104, Australia
Invention Title:          Agrochemical Concentrates
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:
                                              1

                                   Agrochemical Concentrates
   The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent Application
   No. 2014351609. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No. 2014351609
 5 and its corresponding International Patent Application No. PCT/GB2014/053417, are
   incorporated herein by reference.
   The present invention relates to structurants for agrochemical active formulations, and in
   particular for use in said formulations for suspending solids in suspension concentrate type
10 formulations comprising one or more agrochemical actives and/or nutrients. The present
   invention also includes methods of treating crops with such formulations.
   Agrochemical formulations are commonly supplied to the end user as a concentrate which
   is then diluted for use. Adjuvant and agrochemical actives can be added in the tank mix at
15 the point of dilution. However, preferably the adjuvants and actives are included in the
   concentrate. When the agrochemical active ingredient is insoluble or only partly soluble in
   water, the concentrate comprising the active is conveniently supplied in the form of a
   suspension concentrate (SC) in which finely divided solid particles of agrochemical are
   suspended in an aqueous formulation.         Wetting agents and dispersants may also be
20 including in the SC to wet and stabilise the solid particles. SC formulations may therefore
   typically comprise a solid active, surfactant, density/viscosity modifier system, freeze/thaw
   additive, bactericide, anti-foamer, and water diluent.
   It is important that the solid particles remain suspended in the concentrate formulation
25 without significant separation over an extended period of time under typical storage
   conditions.   It is also important to prevent the dispersed solid particles in the SC from
   forming a hard pack sediment upon storage.            It is therefore normally necessary to
   incorporate suspending or structuring agents in to the suspension concentrate.             For
   example, existing structuring agents used for water-based SCs include polysaccharide
30 gums, clays, celluloses, polyacrylates, and xantham gum.
                                                  2

   The presence of high loadings of adjuvant in an SC formulation with consequent reduction
   in water content (both of which are highly desirable from efficacy and efficiency
   perspectives) present the formulator with major problems. Existing structuring agents are
   limited to the need for water in order to swell properly and provide adequate thickening to
 5 support a typical SC.      The higher the amount of adjuvant that is included, in order to
   provide desired bioperformance, the more difficult it becomes to achieve a stable
   suspension concentrate. This problem is noted in US 2004/0082481.
   Therefore, there is a need for structurants for agrochemical applications which are able to
10 structure low aqueous and substantially non-aqueous concentrates. Additionally, there is a
   need for structurants which are able to suspend solid particles in a non-aqueous surfactant
   adjuvant without negatively impacting the finished product viscosity, and which are able to
   maintain solid active ingredient in suspension for a period of time to allow for storage
   without breakdown of the suspension.
15
   The present invention also seeks to provide the use of structurants in agrochemical
   concentrate compositions       in combination with an agrochemical       active, where the
   structurant may provide comparable or improved properties compared to existing
   structurants.
20
   The present invention also seeks to provide the use of agrochemical concentrates and
   dilute formulations thereof comprising said structurants.
   According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an agrochemical
25 concentrate comprising:
           i) at least one structurant, said structurant being a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16
   dicarboxylic acid;
           ii) surfactant adjuvant; and
           iii) at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient.
30
   According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided an agrochemical
   concentrate comprising:
                                                  3

           i) at least one structurant, said structurant being a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16
   dicarboxylic acid; and
           ii) surfactant adjuvant, wherein the amount of surfactant adjuvant present in the
   concentrate is at least 50 wt.%.
 5
   According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
   preparing a concentrate according to the first aspect, said method comprising mixing:
           at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient;
           at least one structurant, said structurant being a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16
10 dicarboxylic acid; and
           surfactant adjuvant;
   and grinding and/or milling said mixture.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided an agrochemical
15 formulation formed by dilution of the concentrate according to the first aspect or the
   second aspect.
   According to a fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided the use of a polyol
   ester of a C4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid as a structurant in an agrochemical concentrate
20 comprising surfactant adjuvant and at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient.
   According to a sixth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of treating
   vegetation to control pests, the method comprising applying an agrochemical formulation
   of the fourth aspect, either to said vegetation or to the immediate environment of said
25 vegetation.
   It has been found that polyol esters of a C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid provides for
   structurants having good adjuvant structuring properties, and which can allow for
   suspension concentrates with low or no water content therefore providing for high
30 adjuvant loading.
                                                 4

   As used herein, the terms 'for example,' 'for instance,' 'such as,' or 'including' are meant
   to introduce examples that further clarify more general subject matter. Unless otherwise
   specified, these examples are provided only as an aid for understanding the applications
   illustrated in the present disclosure, and are not meant to be limiting in any fashion.
 5
   As used herein, the terms 'comprise', 'comprises', 'comprised' or 'comprising' are used in
   this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated
   features, integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or
   addition of one or more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
10
   It will be understood that, when describing the number of carbon atoms in a substituent
   group (e.g. 'Ci to C6 alkyl'), the number refers to the total number of carbon atoms present
   in the substituent group, including any present in any branched groups.           Additionally,
   when describing the number of carbon atoms in, for example fatty acids, this refers to the
15 total number of carbon atoms including the one at the carboxylic acid, and any present in
   any branch groups.
   The structurant is a polyol ester of a C4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid. The structurant of the
   present invention may be obtainable by the reaction of:
20          C4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid;
            C2 to C8 polyol; and
            C 16 to C3 0 monocarboxylic fatty acid.
   The present invention is based on our finding that ester products obtainable by reaction of
25 polyols, C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acids, and long chain monocarboxylic fatty acids, and in
   particular such structurants that have multiple pendent fatty acid groups usually also with
   free polyol hydroxyl groups, can be very effective structurants in adjuvant based systems.
   In referring to compounds of and used in this invention as 'polyesters' or 'oligoesters', we
30 are referring to the multiple ester linkages in the compounds - derived from reaction
   between the polyol and the di- and mono-carboxylic acids. They do not necessarily imply
   that the compounds have polyester chains of alternating dicarboxylic acid and polyol,
                                                    5

   although such chains are a desirable feature of many compounds of and used in the
   invention.
   The term 'structurant' refers to the provision of effects ranging from increasing the
 5 viscosity (viscosifying or thickening) to gelling a continuous phase (creating a three
   dimensional structure at the molecular level which 'traps' the continuous phase) and
   includes the possibility of generating liquid crystal like phases in the continuous phase, all
   of which can enhance the stability of dispersed phases in the continuous phase.
10 The C2 to C8 polyol, typically used as a starting material in making the polyesters of the
   invention, may comprise in the range from 2 to 8 hydroxyl groups. Preferably, in the
   range from 3 to 7. Most preferably, in the range from 3 to 6. Especially preferred are
   where the number of hydroxyl groups is 3, 4, or 6.
15 The esterification with fatty acid and diacid will replace some or all of the hydrogen atoms
   (dependant on the molar ratio of the polyol group to alkoxylation group in the reaction) of
   the hydroxyl groups.
   The C2 to C8 polyol may comprise in the range from 1 to 4 primary hydroxyl groups.
20 Preferably, in the range from 1 to 3 primary hydroxyl groups. Most preferably, in the
   range from 1 to 2 primary hydroxyl groups (on the polyol terminal carbon atoms).
   The C2 to C8 polyol may comprise in the range from 1 to 7 secondary hydroxyl groups.
   Preferably, in the range from 1 to 6 secondary hydroxyl groups. More preferably, in the
25 range from 2 to 5 secondary hydroxyl groups. Most preferably, in the range from 3 to 5
   secondary hydroxyl groups.
   Preferably the polyol is a C3 to C8 polyol. More preferably, a C 4 to C7 polyol, particularly
   a C3 to C6 polyol. Especially preferred are C3, C5 , and C6 polyols.
30
   The polyol may be linear, branched, partially cyclic, or cyclic. Preferably, the polyol is
   linear or branched. More preferably, the polyol is linear.
                                                  6

   The polyol may be selected from diols, triols, tetrols, pentols, hexols, heptols, or octols.
   Preferably, the polyol may be selected from triols, tetrols, pentols, hexols, or heptols.
   More preferably, the polyol may be selected from triols, tetrols, or hexols.
 5
   Suitable specific polyols may be selected from ethylene                   glycol, isosorbide,     1,3
   propanediol, trimethylolpropane, glycerol, erythritol, threitol, pentaerythritol, sorbitan,
   arabitol, xylitol, ribitol, fucitol, mannitol, sorbitol, galactitol, iditol, inositol, or volemitol.
10 In one particular embodiment, polyols obtainable from natural sources may be preferred.
   In particular, sugar alcohols may be used as the polyol. In this specification the terms
   'sugars' and 'sugar alcohols' refer to a group of saccharide derived polyols having from 4
   to 8 hydroxyl groups.        Examples of preferred sugars and sugar alcohols may include
   monosaccharides and disaccharides having from 4 to 8 hydroxyl groups. Monosaccharide,
15 more preferably of glucose, fructose or sorbitol, and particularly of sorbitol or sorbitan,
   may be preferred as polyols obtained from natural sources.
   Particularly preferred polyols are C5 to C6 polyols having 3, 4, or 6 hydroxyl groups.
   Further preferably, the polyol is glycerol, trimethylolpropane, sorbitol, sorbitan, or
20 mixtures thereof. Most preferably, sorbitol or sorbitan.
   The polyol may be homogeneous in that it comprises only one specific polyol.                    In an
   alternative embodiment, the polyol starting material used to form the structurant may be
   heterogeneous in that it comprises a mixture of a number of different polyols from those
25 listed above, and therefore the polyol formed therefrom may be heterogeneous.
   Where the polyol has four or more carbon atoms and four or more hydroxyl groups,
   usually two primary hydroxyls and two or more secondary hydroxyls, it may be
   susceptible to react by an intra-molecular etherification (anhydridisation) reaction to form
30 cyclic ethers.    For example sorbitol may form sorbitan cyclic ethers which may react
   further to form the dicyclic diether iso-sorbide, reducing the number of hydroxyl groups
   available for esterification.      When sorbitan residues are desired in the product, it will
                                                     7

   usually be done by, in effect, in situ formation of the sorbitan; and correspondingly it is
   likely that some sorbitol will be converted into sorbitan when trying to make sorbitol
   esters.
 5 Although anhydridisation may occur its extent may be controlled (at least to a limited
   extent) by selection of the reaction conditions e.g. use of acidic catalysts, particularly if
   linked with higher reaction temperatures, will lead to a greater degree of anhydridisation
   than the use of alkaline catalysts (and lower reaction temperatures will lead to a lower
   degree of anhydridisation).
10
   The structurant is formed from a C4 to Ci 6 dicarboxylic acid, i.e. having 4 to 16 carbon
   atoms.
   The C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid may be aliphatic or aromatic. Said acids may be linear
15 dicarboxylic acids, in that they comprise terminal carboxyl groups, wherein the terminal
   carboxyl groups are bridged by a C6 to C14 alkyl group, or a C6 to C1 4 alkenyl group.
   The term 'C6 to C 14 alkyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to saturated
   hydrocarbon radicals being straight chain, branched, or cyclic moieties, containing from 6
20 to 14 carbon atoms.
   The term 'C6 to C 14 alkenyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to
   hydrocarbon radicals having in the range from 6 to 14 carbon atoms, and comprising at
   least one carbon-carbon double bonds.      The alkenyl radicals may be straight chain or
25 branched.
   Preferably, the C4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid is linear and has a C6 to C 14 alkyl bridging
   group.
30 In one embodiment, said C 4 to Ci6 dicarboxylic acid may be selected from a linear
   aliphatic dicarboxylic acid comprising in the range from 4 to 16 carbon atoms. Preferably,
                                                 8

   in the range from 6 to 14 carbon atoms. More preferably, in the range from 8 to 12 carbon
   atoms.
   In this embodiment, preferred examples of C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid may be
 5 independently selected from adipic acid (hexanedioic acid), pimelic acid (heptanedioic
   acid), suberic acid, azelaic acid, sebacic acid (decanedioic acid), undecane dicarboxylic
   acid,   dodecane    dicarboxylic     acid   (dodecanedioic    acid),   tetradecanedioic   acid,
   hexadecanedioic acid, or combinations thereof. More preferably, said acid is selected from
   suberic acid, sebacic acid, or dodecanedioic acid. Most preferably, sebacic acid.
10
   Alternatively, said acids may comprise terminal carboxyl groups bridged by at least one
   cyclic group.    The cyclic groups may be saturated or unsaturated cyclic groups, and
   selected from C5 or C6 cycloalkyls, C6 cycloaryl, or 4 to 7 membered heterocyclics.
15 The term 'cycloalkyl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to an organic radical
   derived from a saturated hydrocarbon, and may be selected from cyclopentane or
   cyclohexane. The term 'cycloaryl' as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to an
   organic radical derived from an aromatic hydrocarbon by removal of one hydrogen, and
   may be phenyl.
20
   The term 'heterocylic'    as used herein, unless otherwise defined, refers to monocyclic
   radicals comprising 4 to 7 membered ring systems, in which the ring contains at least one
   or more heteroatom selected from nitrogen or oxygen. The ring may be non-aromatic,
   partly aromatic, wholly aromatic, or contain one or more non-conjugated double bonds.
25 Examples of heterocyclic radicals may be independently selected from pyrrolidinyl,
   imidazolyl, indolyl, furanyl, or oxazolyl. Preferably, the heterocyclic radical is furanyl.
   In the embodiment where the terminal carboxyl groups are bridged by at least one cyclic
   group, suitable examples of dicarboxylic acids may be selected from terephthalic acid,
30 (ortho) phthalic acid, isopthalic acid, or 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid.
                                                   9

   The monocarboxylic fatty acids used in forming the structurant of the present invention are
   selected from C 16 to C30 fatty acids, more preferably C1 6 to C28 fatty acids, particularly C18
   to C26 fatty acids. Especially C2o and C24 fatty acids may be preferred.
 5 The fatty acids may be selected from linear or branched fatty acids. The fatty acids may
   be selected from saturated or unsaturated fatty acids.        Preferably, the fatty acids are
   selected from saturated linear fatty acids.
   Suitable saturated fatty acids may be selected from palmitic acid, stearic acid, arachidic
10 acid, behenic acid, lignoceric acid, cerotic acid, or montanic acid. Preferred saturated fatty
   acids may be selected from palmitic acid, stearic acid, arachidic acid, behenic acid,
   lignoceric acid, or cerotic acid. Most preferably, arachidic acid, behenic acid, or lignoceric
   acid.
15 Where unsaturated fatty acids are present, these may be selected from unsaturated fatty
   acids comprising at least one unsaturated carbon-carbon double bond.                Particularly
   preferred are unsaturated fatty acids having in the range from 1 to 3 carbon-carbon double
   bonds. Most preferred are mono-unsaturated or di-unsaturated fatty acids residues. The
   carbon-carbon double bond(s) of the fatty chain may be present either in a cis or a trans
20 configuration.
   Preferably, said unsaturated fatty acid is linear and mono-unsaturated.
   Iodine values are understood to represent the average amount of unsaturation of fats or
25 oils, and is expressed in terms of the number of centigrams of iodine absorbed per gram of
   sample (% iodine absorbed). Where unsaturated fatty acids are present, said fatty acids
   may be selected such that the iodine value is greater than 70. Preferably, said iodine value
   is greater than 75. More preferably, said iodine value is greater than 80. Most preferably,
   said iodine value is greater than 85.
30
   Suitable unsaturated fatty acids may be selected from myristoleic acid, palmitoleic acid,
   sapienic acid, oleic acid, elaidic acid, vaccenic acid, linoleic acid, linoelaidic acid,
                                                  10

   arachidonic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid, erucic acid, or docosahexaenoic acid. Preferred
   unsaturated fatty acids may be selected from arachidonic acid, eicosapentaenoic acid,
   erucic acid, or docosahexaenoic acid. Most preferably, erucic acid.
 5 Preferably, said unsaturated fatty acid is linear and mono-unsaturated.
   The fatty acids may be obtained from natural fats and oils, and these may be selected from
   canola oil, sunflower oil, soybean oil, olive oil, cotton seed oil, grape seed oil, peanut oil,
   rapeseed oil, safflower oil, cottonseed oil, or tall oil. Preferably, canola oil, safflower oil,
10 soybean oil, or tall oil.
   In an alternative embodiment, the fatty acid used may be purified prior to use in the
   present invention. Purification may be undertaken to raise the levels of desired fatty acid
   chains and reduce the level of undesired fatty acid.
15
   Mixtures of monocarboxylic acids may be used if desired and it may be advantageous in
   permitting the properties of the products to be adjusted. Using combinations of long chain
   monocarboxylic acids will generally give products whose properties are intermediate
   between the properties of the respective products made wholly with the respective fatty
20 acids.   Including small proportions of short chain (particularly shorter than 16 carbon
   atoms) or branched or unsaturated monocarboxylic acids (of any chain length) will tend to
   make the products less likely to be gellant type structurants. The proportions of short
   chain or branched or unsaturated monocarboxylic acids, if present, will generally be low,
   typically an average of not more than 30 mol.%, more usually not more than 25 mol.%,
25 and desirably not more than 20 mol.% e.g. from I to 20 mol.%, and particularly from 5 to
   15 mol.% of the total moncarboxylic fatty acid residues in the compounds.
   The molar ratio of C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid, C2 to C8 polyol, and C16 to C30
   monocarboxylic fatty acid present in the structurant is preferably in the range from
30 0.5-1.5:1.5-2.5:2.5-3.5 respectively. Preferably, in the range from 0.8-1.2:1.8-2.2:2.8-3.2
   respectively. Most preferably, about 1:2:3 respectively.
                                                  11

   The molecular weight (number average) of the structurant is preferably in the range from
   600 to 8,000, more preferably 800 to 2,000, most preferably 1,100 to 1,700.                The
   molecular weight (weight average) of the structurant is preferably in the range from 1,500
   to 12,000, more preferably 2,000 to 7,000, most preferably 2,800 to 4,000.                 Said
 5 molecular weights are as measured by gel permeation chromatography against polystyrene
   standards.
   Such molecular weight values correspond to chain lengths derived from the nominal
   polymerisation esterification of the polyol and the dicarboxylic acid of from about 1 to
10 about 20, more usually from about 1 to about 10, and particularly from about 1 to about
   7.5, repeat units (based on a hydroxy/carboxy ended polyol-dicarboxylic acid ester unit).
   Of course, the number of "repeat units" and molecular weight are average values and may
   thus be non-integral across a bulk composition.
15 The extent to which the total available hydroxyl groups in the reaction components used in
   making the products of the invention are esterified can have a significant effect on the
   efficiency of the compounds of and used in the present invention as structurants.
   Generally a minimum of 40%, more usually at least 45% and desirably at least 50% of the
   total polyol hydroxyl groups will be esterified.
20
   At lower levels of esterification, the proportion of free hydroxyl groups is sufficiently high
   to significantly reduce the solubility of the oligoesters and thus to have a detrimental effect
   on the thickening performance of the structurants.
25 The maximum number of such ester residues will depend on the number of hydroxyl
   groups in the original polyol. The level of esterification is usually not more than about
   90%, for example up to about 80% of the hydroxyl groups in the original polyol.              In
   reckoning the number of hydroxyl groups in the original polyol, any that react to form
   ethers under the reaction conditions e.g. as in forming sorbitol from sorbitan, are not
30 included.   Within these ranges, the proportion of free hydroxyl groups may be used to
   modulate or moderate the thickening effects of the compounds.
                                                  12

   Suitable specific structurants may be selected from the reaction product of suberic acid and
   sorbitol and arachidic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; sebacic acid and sorbitol
   and arachidic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; dodecanedioic acid and sorbitol
   and arachidic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; suberic acid and sorbitol and
 5 behenic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; suberic acid and sorbitol and lignoceric
   acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; suberic acid and sorbitol and erucic acid at a
   molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; sebacic acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar
   ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; sebacic acid and sorbitol and lignoceric acid at a molar ratio of
   1:2:3 respectively; sebacic acid and sorbitol and erucic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3
10 respectively; dodecanedioic acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3
   respectively; dodecanedioic acid and sorbitol and lignoceric acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3
   respectively; or dodecanedioic acid and sorbitol and erucic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3
   respectively.
15 Most preferably, suitable specific structurants may be selected from the reaction product of
   suberic acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; sebacic
   acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively; or dodecanedioic
   acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3 respectively.
20 The amount of structurant present in the concentrate may preferably be in the range from
   0.1 wt.% to 12.0 wt.%. More preferably, in the range from 0.4 wt.% to 8.0 wt.%. Further
   preferably, in the range from 0.8 wt.% to 5.0 wt.%. Most preferably, in the range from 1.0
   wt.% to 4.0 wt.%.
25 The structurants of the present invention may be made by a generally conventional
   esterification using a polyol, a dicarboxylic acid (or a reactive derivative) and a
   monocarboxylic acid (or a reactive derivative) as starting materials.
   One method of making the structurants of the present invention comprises a direct one
30 stage route in which all three components (the polyol, the dicarboxylic acid (or reactive
   derivative) and the monocarboxylic acid (or reactive derivative)) are mixed and reacted
                                                 13

   together under (trans-)esterification conditions, particularly at elevated temperatures and in
   the presence of a catalyst.
   The reaction conditions will typically involve using reaction temperatures of from 150'C
 5 to 250'C, and particularly 170'C to 240'C. Where free acids are used as reagents in direct
   esterification, the reaction may be carried out under atmospheric pressure or under
   moderate vacuum, e.g. at pressures from 50 mBar to 250 mBar, particularly about 100
   mBar gauge, to facilitate removal of water of reaction. Trans-esterification reactions using
   lower alkyl esters will usually be carried out at ambient pressure.
10
   Suitable catalysts will depend on the actual starting materials and the desired product. For
   direct esterification, typical catalysts may include basic catalysts such as alkali metal
   hydroxides or carbonates, for example sodium or potassium hydroxide or carbonate,
   particularly potassium carbonate. Typical catalysts may include acidic catalysts, such as
15 sulphonic acids, for example p-toluene sulphonic acid, or phosphorus oxyacids, for
   example phosphoric acid.
   If it is desirable to avoid colour forming oxidation reactions, especially with starting
   polyols such as sorbitol, phosphorous acid and catalysts combining phosphoric and/or
20 phosphorous acid with alkali, typically at a molar ratio of from 1:1 to 1:3 may be used.
   Alternatively, for trans-esterification typical catalysts include relatively mild alkali metal
   base such as carbonates, particularly potassium carbonate, or titanate esters, such as
   tetrabutyl titanate, may be used.
25 The amount of catalyst used will be chosen to achieve the desired level of catalysis and
   will usually be within the range from 0.5 wt.% to 20 wt.% based on the weight of polyol
   used. Typically, the amount of catalyst will be in the range from 0.75 wt.% to 10 wt.%
   based on the polyol.
30 Higher level of esterification catalyst, for example up to 20 wt.% and particularly about 15
   wt.%, may be used to increase preference for the desired reaction to avoid side reactions
                                                  14

   such as cyclising etherification when using highly hydroxylic polyols like sorbitol.
   Catalytic materials that promote cyclisation, such as acids, will generally be avoided.
   Hydroxyl values (OH) were measured using a method based upon BS 684 Section 2.9
 5 (1976) and results are quoted in mg(KOH).g- 1. The hydroxyl value is the amount of base
   (milligrams KOH) required to neutralise the acid used to acetylate the OH groups in 1 g of
   sample.
   Free acid in the sample increases the consumption of KOH in titration to give falsely low
10 hydroxyl values, so the values are corrected for the contribution of acid OH groups. As
   directly measured the hydroxyl value includes both hydroxylic and carboxylic OH groups.
   Therefore, the contribution from hydroxylic OH groups can be obtained by subtracting the
   acid value from the hydroyxl value to give a value which can be described as the free
   hydroxyl value.
15
   The hydroxyl value of the structurant of the present invention may be in the range from 15
   mg(KOH).g- 1 to 250 mg(KOH).g- 1. Preferably, in the range from 30 mg(KOH).g- 1 to 200
   mg(KOH).g- 1. More preferably, in the range from 40 mg(KOH).g-1 to 150 mg(KOH).g-1.
20 The higher values may be achieved by deliberately using a highly hydroxylic polyol, such
   as sorbitol, as starting material, and carrying out the synthesis so as to minimise loss of
   free hydroxyl groups, for example avoiding cyclising etherification synthetic side reactions
   by using non-acid catalysts at relatively high levels.
25 To determine acid values, a test sample dissolved in a suitable solvent (usually ethanol) is
   titrated against standard (usually ethanolic) KOH solution with phenophthalein indicator.
   The acid value was measured using the A.O.C.S. Official method Te la-64 (Reapproved
   1997), and expressed as the number of milligrams of potassium hydroxide required to
   neutralise the free fatty acids in 1 g of sample. The results are quoted as "Acid Value" in
30 mg(KOH).g-1 .
   The acid value of the structurants of the present invention may be less than 25
   mg(KOH).g- 1. Preferably, less than 20 mg(KOH).g- 1.         More preferably, less than 12
                                                 15

   mg(KOH).g- 1. Further preferably, less than 8 mg(KOH).g- 1. Most preferably, less than 5
   mg(KOH).g-1 .
   Structurants of the invention may be solids with melting points in the range from 50'C to
 5 100'C. Preferably, in the range from 60'C to 85'C.
   The surfactant adjuvant of the concentrate will be understood to preferably form the
   continuous phase of the concentrate.         The surfactant adjuvant is preferably a liquid at
   room temperature and pressure.
10
   The surfactant adjuvant will be understood to serve as an adjuvant for the agrochemical
   active in the concentrate and/or formulation. The adjuvant would provide adjuvancy to the
   agrochemical concentrate and/or formulation in which it is comprised.
15 As used herein, the term 'adjuvant' or 'adjuvancy' refers to compounds which when added
   to an agrochemical formulation will improve the agrochemical's desired effect.               The
   surfactant adjuvant may affect the diluent, the mixture, the active, or the target by its
   improvements of the active's performance. The surfactant adjuvant may therefore be used
   to:
20         adhere the pesticide on the area where the pesticide is functional;
           change the epidermal layer of the leaf surface permitting pesticide entry; and/or
           attract the target pest to the pesticide as when used as a food for the pest in baits.
   Specific adjuvancy effects may include surfactants, oils, compatibility agents, buffering
25 and conditioning agents, defoaming agents, deposition agents, drift control agents,
   thickeners, spreaders (wetters), stickers (builders and extenders), emulsifiers (dispersants
   and suspending agents), plant penetrants, translocators, emulsifiable oils, compatibility
   agents, buffers, inverting agents, soil penetrants, and/or stabilising agents (UV filters).
30 The specific nature of the surfactant adjuvant is not critical to the invention and those
   skilled in the art will be able to select suitable adjuvant systems to optimise the bio
   performance of the active ingredient concerned.
                                                    16

   The surfactant adjuvant may be selected from a non-ionic surfactant and/or anionic
   surfactant.
 5 Suitable non-ionic surfactants may be selected from polyethylene oxide-polypropylene
   oxide block copolymers, polyethylene glycol ethers of linear alcohols, reaction products of
   fatty   acids   with   ethylene   oxide   and/or    propylene   oxide,  polyvinyl  alcohol,
   polyvinylpyrrolidone,    copolymers    of polyvinyl     alcohol and polyvinylpyrrolidone,
   copolymers of (meth)acrylic acid and (meth)acrylic acid esters, alkyl ethoxylates and
10 alkylaryl ethoxylates which can be optionally phosphated and optionally neutralised with
   bases, alkanol alkoxylates, and polyoxyalkylenamine derivatives.
   Suitable anionic surfactants may be selected from alkali metal and alkaline earth metal
   salts of alkyl sulphonic acids or alkyl arylsulphonic acids, salts of polystyrenesulphonic
15 acids, salts of polyvinylsulphonic acids, salts of naphthalene-sulphonic acid-formaldehyde
   condensation products, salts of condensation products of naphthalenesulphonic acid, and
   phenolsulphonic acid and formaldehyde, and salts of lignosulphoric acid.
   A wide range of adjuvant types is available to those skilled in the art and whilst it is not
20 intended to supply a comprehensive list, typically the adjuvant system may for example
   comprise one or more enhancers such as ethylene oxide/propylene oxide block
   copolymers, alcohol ethoxylates (such as Brij 010 and Brij 02), alkyl polysaccharides
   (such as Atplus 435 or AL2575), polyethoxylated alcohols/fatty alcohols (such as
   Synperonic A7, Etocas 35), alkyl phenyl ethoxylates (such as Agral 90), polyethoxylated
25 nonyl phenyl ether carboxylic acid (such as Sandopan MA-18), tallow amine ethoxylates,
   oil based derivatives (either mineral or vegetable) (such as Atplus 41 IF and Atplus 463),
   sorbitol, ethoxylated Sorbitan derivatives (such as one of the Tween series of surfactants
   such as Tween 20, or Arlatone TV), acetylenic diol derivatives (such as one of the
   Surfynol series), esters of alkoxylated diethylethanolamine (such as Atlox 4915), and
30 polyethyleneglycol. The bioperformance may additionally be enhanced by the inclusion in
   the formulation of one or more wetting agents such as short chain alcohol ethoxylates.
                                                 17

   Preferably, said adjuvant may be selected from ethoxylated sorbitol/sorbitan derivatives or
   polyethoxylated alcohols/fatty alcohols.
   Specifically preferred adjuvants may be selected from polyoxyethylene (7) C12-C15
 5 alcohol (Synperonic A7), C8-C1O alkylpolysaccharide (AL2575), polyoxyethylene (35)
   castor oil (Etocas 35), polyoxyethylene (12) di-ethyl ethanol amine mono-trimerate (Atlox
   4915), polyoxyethylene (40) sorbitol oleate (Arlatone TV), or polyoxyethylene (20)
   sorbitan mono laurate (Tween 20).
10 In order to achieve maximum enhancement of the activity of the active ingredient, it may
   be desired that the surfactant adjuvant concentration is greater than about 50 wt.% of the
   total concentrate.
   The amount of surfactant adjuvant present in the concentrate may preferably at least 50
15 wt.%. More preferably, at least 65 wt.%. Further preferably, at least 70 wt.%. Even
   further preferably, at least 80 wt.%. Particularly, at least 90 wt.%. Most preferably, the
   amount of surfactant adjuvant present in the concentrate is at least 95 wt.%.
   The agrochemical active may preferably be a solid phase agrochemical active.              Solid
20 agrochemical active compounds are to be understood in the present composition as
   meaning all substances customary for plant treatment, whose melting point is above 20'C
   (standard pressure).      Solid agrochemical actives will also include insoluble active
   ingredients, i.e. active ingredients whose solubility in water is such that a significant solid
   content exists in the concentrate after addition.
25
   Agrochemical actives refer to biocides which, in the context of the present invention, are
   plant protection agents, more particular chemical substances capable of killing different
   forms of living organisms used in fields such as medicine, agriculture, forestry, and
   mosquito control. Also counted under the group of biocides are so-called plant growth
30 regulators.
                                                  18

   Biocides for use in agrochemical formulations of the present invention are typically
   divided into two sub-groups:
     - pesticides, including fungicides, herbicides, insecticides, algicides, moluscicides,
        miticides and rodenticides, and
 5   - antimicrobials, including germicides, antibiotics, antibacterials, antivirals, antifungals,
        antiprotozoals and antiparasites.
   In particular, biocides selected from insecticides, fungicides, or herbicides may be
   particularly preferred.
10
   The term 'pesticide' will be understood to refer to any substance or mixture of substances
   intended for preventing, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest. A pesticide may be
   a chemical substance or biological agent (such as a virus or bacteria) used against pests
   including insects, plant pathogens, weeds, mollusks, birds, mammals, fish, nematodes
15 (roundworms) and microbes that compete with humans for food, destroy property, spread
   disease or are a nuisance.       In the following examples, pesticides suitable for the
   agrochemical compositions according to the present invention are given.
   A fungicide is a chemical control of fungi. Fungicides are chemical compounds used to
20 prevent the spread of fungi in gardens and crops. Fungicides are also used to fight fungal
   infections. Fungicides can either be contact or systemic. A contact fungicide kills fungi
   when sprayed on its surface. A systemic fungicide has to be absorbed by the fungus before
   the fungus dies.
25 Examples for suitable fungicides, according to the present invention, encompass the
   following species: (3-ethoxypropyl)mercury bromide, 2-methoxyethylmercury chloride,
   2-phenylphenol, 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate, 8-phenylmercuri oxyquinoline, acibenzolar,
   acylamino acid fungicides, acypetacs, aldimorph, aliphatic nitrogen fungicides, allyl
   alcohol,   amide    fungicides,  ampropylfos,     anilazine,  anilide   fungicides,   antibiotic
30 fungicides, aromatic fungicides,       aureofungin,   azaconazole, azithiram,    azoxystrobin,
   barium    polysulphide,    benalaxyl-M,     benodanil,    benomyl,    benquinox,    bentaluron,
   benthiavalicarb, benzalkonium chloride, benzamacril, benzamide fungicides, benzamorf,
                                                  19

   benzanilide fungicides, benzimidazole fungicides, benzimidazole precursor fungicides,
   benzimidazolylcarbamate fungicides, benzohydroxamic acid, benzothiazole fungicides,
   bethoxazin, binapacryl, biphenyl, bitertanol, bithionol, blasticidin-S, Bordeaux mixture,
   boscalid, bridged diphenyl fungicides, bromuconazole, bupirimate, Burgundy mixture,
 5 buthiobate, butylamine, calcium polysulphide, captafol, captan, carbamate fungicides,
   carbamorph, carbanilate         fungicides, carbendazim, carboxin, carpropamid,                carvone,
   Cheshunt    mixture, chinomethionat,           chlobenthiazone,     chloraniformethan,        chloranil,
   chlorfenazole,      chlorodinitronaphthalene,        chloroneb,     chloropicrin,      chlorothalonil,
   chlorquinox, chlozolinate, ciclopirox, climbazole, clotrimazole, conazole fungicides,
10 conazole fungicides (imidazoles), conazole fungicides (triazoles), copper(II) acetate,
   copper(II) carbonate, basic, copper fungicides, copper hydroxide, copper naphthenate,
   copper oleate, copper oxychloride, copper(II) sulphate, copper sulphate, basic, copper zinc
   chromate, cresol, cufraneb, cuprobam, cuprous oxide, cyazofamid, cyclafuramid, cyclic
   dithiocarbamate      fungicides, cycloheximide,         cyflufenamid,    cymoxanil,      cypendazole,
15 cyproconazole, cyprodinil, dazomet, DBCP, debacarb, decafentin, dehydroacetic acid,
   dicarboximide      fungicides,      dichlofluanid,    dichlone,    dichlorophen,     dichlorophenyl,
   dicarboximide fungicides, dichlozoline, diclobutrazol, diclocymet, diclomezine, dicloran,
   diethofencarb,     diethyl    pyrocarbonate,     difenoconazole,     diflumetorim,      dimethirimol,
   dimethomorph,       dimoxystrobin,       diniconazole,    dinitrophenol      fungicides,    dinobuton,
20 dinocap, dinocton, dinopenton, dinosulphon, dinoterbon, diphenylamine, dipyrithione,
   disulphiram, ditalimfos, dithianon, dithiocarbamate fungicides, DNOC, dodemorph,
   dodicin, dodine, DONATODINE, drazoxolon, edifenphos, epoxiconazole, etaconazole,
   etem, ethaboxam, ethirimol, ethoxyquin, ethylmercury 2,3-dihydroxypropyl mercaptide,
   ethylmercury     acetate,    ethylmercury bromide,         ethylmercury chloride, ethylmercury
25 phosphate, etridiazole, famoxadone, fenamidone, fenaminosulph, fenapanil, fenarimol,
   fenbuconazole, fenfuram, fenhexamid, fenitropan, fenoxanil, fenpiclonil, fenpropidin,
   fenpropimorph,       fentin,    ferbam,     ferimzone,     fluazinam,     fludioxonil,     flumetover,
   fluopicolide,   fluoroimide,      fluotrimazole,    fluoxastrobin, fluquinconazole,         flusilazole,
   flusulphamide, flutolanil, flutriafol, folpet, formaldehyde, fosetyl, fuberidazole, furalaxyl,
30 furametpyr,    furamide       fungicides,    furanilide   fungicides,    furcarbanil,     furconazole,
   furconazole-cis, furfural, furmecyclox, furophanate, glyodin, griseofulvin, guazatine,
   halacrinate, hexachlorobenzene, hexachlorobutadiene, hexachlorophene, hexaconazole,
                                                     20

   hexylthiofos, hydrargaphen, hymexazol, imazalil, imibenconazole, imidazole fungicides,
   iminoctadine,     inorganic   fungicides,     inorganic    mercury      fungicides,   iodomethane,
   ipconazole,      iprobenfos,    iprodione,      iprovalicarb,      isoprothiolane,     isovaledione,
   kasugamycin, kresoxim-methyl, lime sulphur, mancopper, mancozeb, maneb, mebenil,
 5 mecarbinzid, mepanipyrim, mepronil, mercuric chloride, mercuric oxide, mercurous
   chloride, mercury fungicides, metalaxyl, metalaxyl-M, metam, metazoxolon, metconazole,
   methasulphocarb, methfuroxam, methyl bromide, methyl isothiocyanate, methylmercury
   benzoate, methylmercury dicyandiamide, methylmercury pentachlorophenoxide, metiram,
   metominostrobin,       metrafenone,      metsulphovax,      milneb,       morpholine      fungicides,
10 myclobutanil, myclozolin, N-(ethylmercury)-p-toluenesulphonanilide, nabam, natamycin,
   nitrostyrene, nitrothal-isopropyl, nuarimol, OCH, octhilinone, ofurace, organomercury
   fungicides, organophosphorus fungicides, organotin fungicides, orysastrobin, oxadixyl,
   oxathiin fungicides,     oxazole fungicides,      oxine copper, oxpoconazole,          oxycarboxin,
   pefurazoate,        penconazole,      pencycuron,         pentachlorophenol,          penthiopyrad,
15 phenylmercuriurea,      phenylmercury     acetate, phenylmercury         chloride, phenylmercury
   derivative    of     pyrocatechol,   phenylmercury        nitrate,     phenylmercury       salicylate,
   phenylsulphamide        fungicides,    phosdiphen,       phthalide,      phthalimide      fungicides,
   picoxystrobin, piperalin, polycarbamate, polymeric dithiocarbamate fungicides, polyoxins,
   polyoxorim, polysulphide fungicides, potassium azide, potassium polysulphide, potassium
20 thiocyanate,    probenazole,    prochloraz,     procymidone,        propamocarb,    propiconazole,
   propineb,    proquinazid,    prothiocarb,     prothioconazole,      pyracarbolid,   pyraclostrobin,
   pyrazole fungicides, pyrazophos, pyridine fungicides, pyridinitril, pyrifenox, pyrimethanil,
   pyrimidine fungicides, pyroquilon, pyroxychlor, pyroxyfiir, pyrrole fungicides, quinacetol,
   quinazamid,     quinconazole,    quinoline     fungicides,    quinone     fungicides,    quinoxaline
25 fungicides, quinoxyfen, quintozene, rabenzazole, salicylanilide, silthiofam, simeconazole,
   sodium azide, sodium orthophenylphenoxide, sodium pentachlorophenoxide,                        sodium
   polysulphide, spiroxamine, streptomycin, strobilurin fungicides, sulphonanilide fungicides,
   sulphur, sultropen, TCMTB, tebuconazole, tecloftalam, tecnazene, tecoram, tetraconazole,
   thiabendazole, thiadifluor, thiazole fungicides, thicyofen, thifluzamide, thiocarbamate
30 fungicides, thiochlorfenphim, thiomersal, thiophanate, thiophanate-methyl,                 thiophene
   fungicides, thioquinox, thiram, tiadinil, tioxymid, tivedo, tolclofos-methyl, tolnaftate,
   tolylfluanid,   tolylmercury    acetate,   triadimefon,    triadimenol,     triamiphos,     triarimol,
                                                    21

   triazbutil, triazine fungicides, triazole fungicides, triazoxide, tributyltin oxide, trichlamide,
   tricyclazole, trifloxystrobin, triflumizole, triforine, triticonazole, unclassified fungicides,
   undecylenic acid, uniconazole, urea fungicides, validamycin, valinamide fungicides,
   vinclozolin, zarilamid, zinc naphthenate, zineb, ziram, zoxamide, and mixtures thereof.
 5
   An herbicide is a pesticide used to kill unwanted plants. Selective herbicides kill specific
   targets while leaving the desired crop relatively unharmed.              Some of these act by
   interfering with the growth of the weed and are often based on plant hormones. Herbicides
   used to clear waste ground are non-selective and kill all plant material with which they
10 come into contact.        Herbicides are widely used in agriculture and in landscape turf
   management.         They are applied in total vegetation control (TVC) programs                  for
   maintenance of highways and railroads. Smaller quantities are used in forestry, pasture
   systems, and management of areas set aside as wildlife habitat.
15 Suitable herbicides may be selected from the group comprising: aryloxycarboxylic acid
   e.g. MCPA, aryloxyphenoxypropionates e.g. clodinafop, cyclohexanedione oximes e.g.
   sethoxydim,       dinitroanilines   e.g.   trifluralin,    diphenyl  ethers     e.g.    oxyfluorfen,
   hydroxybenzonitriles         e.g.   bromoxynil,         sulphonylureas     e.g.      nicosulphuron,
   triazolopyrimidines e.g. penoxsulam, triketiones e.g. mesotriones, or ureas e.g. diuron.
20
   Particularly preferred herbicides may be selected from 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid
   (2,4-D), atrazine, dicamba as benzoic acid, glyphosate, imazapic as imidazolinone,
   metolachlor as chloroacetamide, picloram, clopyralid, and triclopyr as pyridinecarboxylic
   acids or synthetic auxins.
25
   An insecticide is a pesticide used against insects in all developmental forms, and includes
   ovicides and larvicides used against the eggs and larvae of insects. Insecticides are used in
   agriculture, medicine, industry and the household.
30 Suitable insecticides may include those selected from:
     - Chlorinated insecticides such as, for example, Camphechlor, DDT, Hexachloro
        cyclohexane,      gamma-Hexachlorocyclohexane,           Methoxychlor,    Pentachlorophenol,
                                                     22

         TDE, Aldrin, Chlordane, Chlordecone, Dieldrin, Endosulphan, Endrin, Heptachlor,
         Mirex and their mixtures;
     - Organophosphorous compounds such as, for example, Acephate, Azinphos-methyl,
         Bensulide,    Chlorethoxyfos,    Chlorpyrifos,     Chlorpyriphos-methyl,    Diazinon,
 5       Dichlorvos (DDVP), Dicrotophos, Dimethoate, Disulphoton, Ethoprop, Fenamiphos,
         Fenitrothion,  Fenthion,  Fosthiazate,   Malathion,   Methamidophos,     Methidathion,
         Methyl-parathion, Mevinphos, Naled, Omethoate, Oxydemeton-methyl, Parathion,
         Phorate,   Phosalone,  Phosmet,    Phostebupirim,    Pirimiphos-methyl,   Profenofos,
         Terbufos, Tetrachlorvinphos, Tribufos, Trichlorfon and their mixture;
10   - Carbamates such as, for example, Aldicarb, Carbofuran, Carbaryl, Methomyl,
         2-(1- Methylpropyl)phenyl methylcarbamate and their mixtures;
     - Pyrethroids such as, for example, Allethrin, Bifenthrin, Deltamethrin, Permethrin,
         Resmethrin, Sumithrin, Tetramethrin, Tralomethrin, Transfluthrin and their mixtures;
     - Plant toxin derived compounds such as, for example, Derris (rotenone), Pyrethrum,
15      Neem (Azadirachtin), Nicotine, Caffeine and their mixtures;
     - Neonicotinoids such as imidacloprid;
     - Abamectin e.g. emamactin;
     - Oxadiazines such as indoxacarb;
     - Anthranilic diamides such as rynaxypyr.
20
   Rodenticides are a category of pest control chemicals intended to kill rodents.     Suitable
   rodenticides may include anticoagulants, metal phosphides, phosphides, and calciferols
   (vitamins D), and derivatives thereof.
25 Miticides are pesticides that kill mites.       Antibiotic miticides, carbamate miticides,
   formamidine      miticides, mite   growth    regulators,  organochlorine,   permethrin   and
   organophosphate miticides all belong to this category. Molluscicides are pesticides used to
   control mollusks, such as moths, slugs and snails. These substances include metaldehyde,
   methiocarb and aluminium sulphate. A nematicide is a type of chemical pesticide used to
30 kill parasitic nematodes (a phylum of worm).
                                                 23

   In the following examples, antimicrobials              suitable for agrochemical        compositions
   according to the present invention are given.
   Bactericidal disinfectants may include those selected from active chlorines, active oxygen,
 5 iodine, concentrated alcohols, phenolic substances, cationic surfactants, strong oxidisers,
   heavy metals and their salts, and concentrated strong acids and alkalis between pH of from
   1 to 13.  Suitable antiseptics (i.e., germicide agents that can be used on human or animal
   body, skin, mucoses, wounds and the like) may include diluted chlorine preparations,
   iodine preparations, peroxides, alcohols with or without antiseptic additives, weak organic
10 acids, phenolic compounds, and cation-active compounds.
   Preferred actives are those with systemic or partially systemic mode of action.
   Particular preference is given to active compounds from the classes of the azole fungicides
15 (azaconazole, bitertanol, bromuconazole, cyproconazole, diclobutrazole, difenoconazole,
   diniconazole, diniconazole-M, epoxiconazole, etaconazole, fenarimol, fenbuconazole,
   fluquinconazole,      flurprimidol,    flusilazole,   flutriafol,   furconazole,    furconazole-cis,
   hexaconazole, imazalil, imazalil sulphate, imibenconazole, ipconazole, metconazole,
   myclobutanil,     nuarimol,     oxpoconazole,       paclobutrazole,    penconazole,      pefurazoate,
20 prochloraz,    propiconazole,     prothioconazole,      pyrifenox, simeconazole,       tebuconazole,
   tetraconazole, triadimefon, triadimenol, triflumizole, triforin, triticonazole, uniconazole,
   voriconazole,     viniconazole),     strobilurin    fungicides     (azoxystrobin,    dimoxystrobin,
   fluoxastrobin,      kresoxim-methyl,        metominostrobin,        orysastrobin,     picoxystrobin,
   pyraclostrobin, trifloxystrobin), the SDH fungicides, the chloronicotinyl insecticides
25 (clothianidin,     dinotefuran,     imidacloprid,      thiamethoxam,      nitenpyram,       nithiazin,
   acetamiprid,     nitenpyram,     thiacloprid),    the    insecticidal   ketoenols     (spirodiclofen,
   spiromesifen, spirotetramate), fiproles (fiprole, ethiprole) and butenolides, and also
   pymetrozine,             fluopicolid,           N-(3',4'-dichloro-5-fluoro-1,1'-biphenyl-2-yl)-3
   (difluoromethyl)- 1-methyl-i H-pyrazole-4-carboxamide                 and         N-{2-[3-chloro-5
30 (trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl] ethyl} -2-(trifluoromethyl)benzamide. Particular preference is
   also given to herbicides, in particular sulphonylureas, triketones and herbicidal ketoenols,
   and also safeners.
                                                     24

   The structurant of the present invention may be applied to a wide range of insoluble active
   ingredients (that is to say active ingredients whose solubility in water is such that a
   significant solid content exists in the concentrate). It is especially applicable to suspension
 5 concentrates which either contain a high loading of adjuvant, involve an active ingredient
   which requires formulation at low pH, or both.
   Preferred examples of such agrochemical actives may be selected from;
     - the     fungicides    tebuconazole,    prothioconazole,     N-(3',4'-dichloro-5-fluoro-1,1'
10      biphenyl-2-yl)-3-(difluoromethyl)-1-methyl-iH-pyrazole-4-carboxamide          (known from
        WO          03/070705),         N-{2-[3-chloro-5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]ethyl}-2
        (trifluoromethyl)benzamide (known from WO 04/16088), trifloxystrobin, fluopicolid,
        azoxystrobin;
     - the insecticides imidacloprid, thiamethoxam, clothianidin, thiacloprid, spirotetramate,
15      fipronil, ethiprol, carbaryl, cypermethrin;
     - the herbicides thiencarbazone, sulcotrione, mesotrione, tembotrione, pyrasulphotole,
        iodosulphuron, mesosulphuron, foramsulphuron, nicosulfuron, and pyrazosulfuron
        ethyl.
20 Particularly preferred examples of agrochemical actives may be selected from mesotrione
   or sulcotrione. When the active ingredient is mesotrione or sulcotrione, the concentrate of
   the invention is particularly suitably for use as an herbicide.
   The concentration of the agrochemical active in the concentrate is not critical for the
25 purposes of the present invention, and may be determined by other factors as required.
   The concentration of the agrochemical active is preferably in the range from 50 g/l to 500
   g/l. More preferably, in the range from 75 g/l to 250 g/l. Most preferably, in the range
   from 90 g/l to 180 g/l.
30 In an alternative embodiment the concentrate may optionally comprise nutrients in
   addition to, or as an alternative to, pesticide actives. In such formulations the nutrient is
   typically in a dry form.
                                                  25

   Nutrients refer to chemical elements and compounds which are desired or necessary to
   promote or improve plant growth.            Suitable nutrients generally are described as
   macronutrients or micronutrients. Suitable nutrients for use in the concentrates according
 5 to the invention are all nutrient compounds, preferably those which are solid at room
   temperature.
   Micronutrients typically refer to trace metals or trace elements, and are often applied in
   lower doses. Suitable micronutrients include trace elements selected from zinc, boron,
10 chlorine, copper, iron, molybdenum, and manganese.         The micronutrients may be in a
   soluble form or included as insoluble solids, and may be salts or chelated.
   Macronutrients typically refer to those comprising nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium,
   and include fertilisers such as ammonium sulphate, and water conditioning agents.
15 Suitable macronutrients include fertilisers and other nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium,
   calcium, magnesium, sulphur containing compounds, and water conditioning agents.
   Suitable fertilisers include inorganic fertilisers that provide nutrients such as nitrogen,
   phosphorus, potassium or sulphur. Fertilisers may be included in diluted formulations at
20 relatively low concentrations or as more concentrated solutions, which at very high levels
   may include solid fertiliser as well as solution.
   It is envisaged that inclusion of the nutrient would be dependent upon the specific nutrient,
   and that micronutrients would typically be included at lower concentrations whilst
25 macronutrients would typically be included at higher concentrations.
   When present, the proportion of nutrient in the total concentrate is typically from 5 wt.% to
   40 wt.%, more usually, 10 wt.% to 35 wt.%, particularly 15 wt.% to 30 % wt.%.
30 Agrochemical concentrates are agrochemical compositions, which may be aqueous or non
   aqueous, and which are designed to be diluted with water (or a water based liquid) to form
   the corresponding end-use agrochemical formulations, typically spray formulations. Said
                                                  26

   concentrates include those in liquid form (such as solutions, emulsions, or dispersions) and
   in solid form (especially in water dispersible solid form) such as granules or powders.
   Accordingly, the concentrate of the present invention may be formulated as an emulsion
 5 concentrate (EW), suspension concentrate (SC), as an oil-based suspension concentrate
   (GD), and/or suspoemulsions (SE).         In an OD, SC, or SE formulations the active
   compound may be present as a solid or emulsified liquid.            It is envisaged that the
   structurant of the present invention will particularly find use in a SC, OD, or SE
   formulation. In particular, the structurant of the present invention may particularly find
10 use in a SC formulation.
   It will be appreciated that typically SC formulations are water based, but that the
   concentrates of the present invention are described as having low or no water. Therefore,
   the preferred concentrates of the present invention may be thought of as being SC-like or a
15 non-water based SC where the continuous phase is instead formed by the surfactant
   adjuvant.
   It is typically known that the higher the surfactant adjuvant concentration in the
   concentrate in order to provide the desired bio-performance enhancement, the more
20 difficult it becomes to achieve a stable SC.      The benefits of the present invention are
   therefore most apparent at higher adjuvant concentrations where stable suspension
   concentrates can be achieved at high concentrations of adjuvant as a result of the
   structurant.
25 The concentrate may be preferably substantially non-aqueous. Preferably, the continuous
   phase is at least 50 wt.% non-aqueous.        More preferably, at least 65 wt.%.     Further
   preferably, at least 70 wt.%.     Even further preferably, at least 80 wt.%.     Particularly
   preferably, at least 90 wt.%. Most preferably, at least 95 wt.%.
30 The continuous phase may be substantially or entirely non-aqueous. It will be understood
   that the amount of water present in the concentrate may preferably be less than 50 wt.%.
   More preferably, less than 35 wt.%. Further preferably, less than 30 wt.%. Even further
                                                 27

   preferably, less than 20 wt.%.     Particularly, less than 10 wt.%.    Most preferably, the
   amount of water present in the concentrate is less than 5 wt.%.
   The amount of surfactant adjuvant and other components may be present in the concentrate
 5 such that the concentrate does not comprise any added water, although some trace amounts
   of water may be present in any of the components.
   The structurant of the present invention will typically be used in an amount proportional to
   the amount of the surfactant adjuvant in the concentrate.        The ratio of structurant to
10 surfactant adjuvant in the concentrate is preferably at a weight ratio of from about 1:20 to
   about 1:100.     More preferably, from about 1:50 to about 1:90.       This ratio range will
   generally be maintained for concentrates and in the agrochemical spray formulations.
   The structurants of the present invention provide for desired stability of the resulting
15 concentrates. The concentrates do not undergo separation under storage. Additionally, the
   concentrates return to being homogeneous liquids at room temperature after being frozen.
   It has been found that the structuring of the SC of the present invention provides excellent
   stability over time and at various temperatures, and even when the SC undergoes shear
20 forces for example on mixing.
   The concentrates of the present invention, in particular when SCs, have a maximum
   separation of 15% and preferably not more than 8% at an accelerated test over 28 days at
   54 0 C where the separation is as defined in the Examples. Most preferably, the concentrate
25 has no more than 2% separation of an accelerated test over 28 days at 54 0 C.
   The concentrates of the present invention, have a decrease in viscosity when not under
   between 24 hours and 14 days of no more than 30%, preferably no more than 20%, most
   preferably no more than 15%.
30
                                                  28

   The concentrates of the present invention, have a decrease in viscosity under low shear
   between 24 hours and 14 days of no more than 30%, preferably no more than 20%, most
   preferably no more than 15%.
 5 The concentrates of the present invention, have an increase in D(0.5) particle size of no
   more than 5% between 24 hours and 14 days at 54'C. Preferably, the concentrate has no
   increase in particle size.
   The concentrates of the present invention, have an increase in D(0.9) particle size of no
10 more than 5% between 24 hours and 14 days at 54'C. Preferably, the concentrate has no
   increase in particle size.
   The concentrates of the present invention, have a suspensibility of at least 60% at 24 hours,
   where the suspensibility is as defined in the Examples. Preferably, at least 70%. Most
15 preferably, at least 8 0 %.
   The concentrates of the present invention, have a variation in pH of no more than 20%
   when at 54'C between 24 hours and 28 days.          Preferably, no more than 10%.       Most
   preferably, no more than 5%.
20
   Agrochemically active compounds require a formulation which allows the active
   compounds to be taken up by the plant/the target organisms. When concentrates (solid or
   liquid) are used as the source of active agrochemical and/or adjuvant, the concentrates will
   typically be diluted to form end-use formulations, typically spray formulations.         The
25 dilution may be with water at from 1 to 10,000, particularly 10 to 1,000, times the total
   weight of the concentrate to form the spray formulation.
   Said concentrates may be diluted for use resulting in a dilute composition having an
   agrochemical active concentration of about 0.5 wt.% to about 1 wt.%.           In said dilute
30 composition (for example, a spray formulation, where a spray application rate may be from
   10 to 500 1.ha- 1) the agrochemical active concentration may be in the range from about
   0.001 wt.% to about 1 wt.% of the total formulation as sprayed.
                                                 29

   Spray formulations are aqueous agrochemical formulations including all the components
   which it is desired to apply to the plants or their environment. Spray formulations can be
   made up by simple dilution of concentrates containing desired components (other than
 5 water), or by mixing of the individual components, or a combination of diluting a
   concentrate and adding further individual components or mixtures of components.
   Typically such end use mixing is carried out in the tank from which the formulation is
   sprayed, or alternatively in a holding tank for filling the spray tank.     Such mixing and
   mixtures are typically termed tank mixing and tank mixtures.
10
   Where the agrochemical active is present in the aqueous end use formulation as solid
   particles, most usually it will be present as particles mainly of active agrochemical.
   However, if desired, the active agrochemical can be supported on a solid carrier e.g. silica
   or diatomaceous earth, which can be a solid support, filler or diluent material.
15
   The spray formulations will typically have a pH within the range from moderately acidic
   (e.g. about 3) to moderately alkaline (e.g. about 10), and particular near neutral (e.g. about
   5 to 8). More concentrated formulations will have similar degrees of acidity/alkalinity, but
   as they may be largely non-aqueous, pH is not necessarily an appropriate measure of this.
20
   The agrochemical      formulation may include        solvents (other than water) such as
   monopropylene glycol, oils which can be vegetable or mineral oils such as spray oils.
   Such solvents may be included as a solvent for the surfactant adjuvant, and/or as a
   humectant, e.g. especially propylene glycol. When used such solvents will typically be
25 included in an amount of from 5 wt.% to 500 wt.%, desirably 10 wt.% to 100 wt.%, by
   weight of the surfactant adjuvant.      Such combinations can also include salts such as
   ammonium chloride and/or sodium benzoate, and/or urea especially as gel inhibition aids.
   The concentrate and/or agrochemical formulation may also include other components as
30 desired. These other components may be selected from those including:
     - binders, particularly binders which are readily water soluble to give low viscosity
        solutions at high binder concentrations, such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; polyvinyl
                                                 30

     alcohol; carboxymethyl cellulose; gum arabic; sugars e.g. sucrose or sorbitol; starch;
     ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers, sucrose and alginates;
   - diluents, absorbents or carriers such as carbon black; talc; diatomaceous earth; kaolin;
     aluminium, calcium or magnesium           stearate;  sodium tripolyphosphate;    sodium
 5   tetraborate; sodium sulphate; sodium, aluminium and mixed sodium-aluminium
     silicates; and sodium benzoate;
   - disintegration agents, such as surfactants, materials that swell in water, for example
     carboxy     methylcellulose,  collodion,   polyvinylpyrrolidone   and   microcrystalline
     cellulose swelling agents; salts such as sodium or potassium acetate, sodium
10   carbonate, bicarbonate or sesquicarbonate, ammonium sulphate and dipotassium
     hydrogen phosphate;
   - wetting agents such as alcohol ethoxylate and alcohol ethoxylate/propoxylate wetting
     agents;
   - dispersants such as sulphonated naphthalene formaldehyde condensates and acrylic
15   copolymers such as the comb copolymer having capped polyethylene glycol side
     chains on a polyacrylic backbone;
   - emulsifiers such as alcohol ethoxylates, ABA block copolymers, or castor oil
     ethoxylates;
   - antifoam agents, e.g. polysiloxane antifoam agents, typically in amounts of 0.005
20   wt.% to 10 wt.% of the formulation;
   - viscosity modifiers such as commercially available water soluble or miscible gums,
     e.g. xanthan gums, and/or cellulosics, e.g. carboxymethyl, ethyl or propylcellulose;
     and/or
   - preservatives and/or anti-microbials such as organic acids, or their esters or salts such
25   as ascorbic e.g. ascorbyl palmitate, sorbic e.g. potassium sorbate, benzoic e.g. benzoic
     acid and methyl and propyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, propionic e.g. sodium propionate,
     phenol e.g. sodium 2-phenylphenate; 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one; or formaldehyde as
     such or as paraformaldehyde; or inorganic materials such as sulphurous acid and its
     salts, typically in amounts of 0.01 wt.% to 1 wt.% of the formulation.
30
                                              31

   The invention further includes a method of treating plants using agrochemical formulations
   including at least one agrochemical active, surfactant adjuvant, and structurant. These may
   be formed by dilution of the concentrate of the first aspect.
 5 Accordingly the invention further includes methods of use including:
     - a method of killing or inhibiting vegetation by applying to the vegetation, or the
        immediate environment of the vegetation e.g. the soil around the vegetation, a spray
        formulation including at least one dispersed phase agrochemical, the surfactant
        adjuvant, and the structurant of the first aspect; and/or
10   - a method of killing or inhibiting pests of plants by applying to the plants or the
        immediate environment of the plants e.g. the soil around the plants, a spray
        formulations including at least one dispersed phase agrochemical which is one or
        more pesticides, for example insecticides, fungicides or acaricides, the surfactant
        adjuvant, and the structurant of the first aspect.
15
   All of the features described herein may be combined with any of the above aspects, in any
   combination.
   In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, reference will now be
20 made, by way of example, to the following description.
   It will be understood that all tests and physical properties listed have been determined at
   atmospheric pressure and room temperature (i.e. 25'C), unless otherwise stated herein, or
   unless otherwise stated in the referenced test methods and procedures.
25
   The following test methods were used to determine performance of the adjuvant
   compositions.
       Stability - The stability of all the formulations was assessed after the stated time period
30 at room temperature (RT) and 54'C. The samples were tested in a Turbiscan to measure
   any sedimentation/creaming that may have occurred.
                                                   32

         Viscosity - Samples were tested on a TA Instruments DHR-3 rheometer.                The
   rheometer was used to assess their stability over the stated time period. This was done
   measuring the viscosity profiles and the changes in the samples structure and behaviour
   over the stated time period. Two tests were carried out to achieve this, a flow test and an
 5 oscillation test.
      i.    Flow test - measured the sample viscosity over a range of torques (force) and was
            used to look at the storage viscosity and application viscosity of a formulation. As
            the samples were shear thinning (viscosity decreases with increasing torque), the
            range over which they shear thin provides information on how homogeneous the
10          samples structure was.
     ii.    Oscillation test - involved applying an oscillating torque to the sample to measure
            how solid and liquid the sample and which behaviour dominates.          Also used to
            look at the samples LVER (linear visco-elastic region). The length of this region
            provides information on the particle size distribution of the sample which would
15          indicate how well the formulations active is dispersed. All testing was carried out
            at 20'C.
         Suspensibility (CIPAC MTJ61 SOP 0039) - Sample was diluted in 342 ppm hard water
   with 5 ml of concentrate and 95 ml of water. 40 ml of 342 ppm Ca2+ water was placed in
20 100 ml stoppered measuring cylinder. 5 ml of the formulation was added and topped up to
   100 ml mark with 342 Ca2+ ppm water (mimicking a 20 fold dilution upon application).
   The sample was inverted 30 times and left to stand for 30 minutes. The top 90% of the
   suspension was removed by using a vacuum pump connected to a catch pot. The 90% was
   then dried to constant weight at 50'C overnight in an evaporating dish. The suspensibility
25 was calculated using the weight of the solid material obtained.
            Particlesize values - the D(v,0.5) and D(v,0.9) values were determined by dynamic
   light scattering analysis using a Malvern Mastersizer 2000 with a Hydro 2000SM
   attachment running on water set at 2,100 rpm. The refractive index of the material was set
30 as 1.53 with an absorbance of 0.1. 12,000 snaps were taken over 12 seconds to obtain the
   data.    An average of three runs was used to determine a final particle size.      From the
   particle size values obtained, D(v,0.5) and D(v,0.9) values were readily determined.
                                                  33

   Example Synthesis of Structurant (Si)
   Anhydrous sorbitol (32.76g, 0.18 mol), sebacic acid (18.18g, 0.09 mol), behenic acid
   (91.80 g, 0.27 mol), and potassium carbonate (catalyst) (1.86 g, 7.5 mol.% based on the
 5 amount of polyol) were charged to a 250ml round bottomed flask fitted with a propeller
   stirrer, side-arm water condenser, collection flask, nitrogen sparge,         thermometer
   (thermocouple), and isomantle. The mixture was heated with stirring (300 rpm) to 170'C
   under nitrogen sparge and at a vacuum of 100 mbar (gauge) removing water of reaction
   through the condenser. The reaction was monitored by acid value, and stopped when this
10 fell below 20 (after 4 to 5 hrs) and the product discharged.     The measured molecular
   weight was Mn 1480 and Mw 3220.
   Example Formulations with Various Surfactant Adjuvants
   A number of concentrates were formed using the structurant Sl synthesised above. Each
15 concentrate comprised the selected amount of structurant with the rest of the concentrate
   being the respective surfactant adjuvant. The resultant blend was then heated to 80-85'C
   and stirred at about 500 rpm until a homogenous liquid was obtained. Samples were then
   left to cool. The concentrates made are listed in Table 1.
20 Table 1. - Concentrates Formed
                                     Surfactant Adjuvant                  Amount of
            ExampleS1(t%
                         Trade Name               Chemical Name           Si (wt.%)
               Cl       Synperonic A7    Polyoxyethylene (7) C12-C15           3.0
                                         alcohol
               C2          AL 2575       C8-C10 Alkylpolysaccharide            4.0
               C3         Etocas 35      Polyoxyethylene (35) castor oil       2.0
               C4         Atlox 4915     Polyoxyethylene (12) Di-ethyl         2.0
                                         ethanol amine mono-trimerate
               C5        Arlatone TV     Polyoxyethylene (40) sorbitol         2.0
                                         oleate
               C6         Tween 20       Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan         2.5
                                         mono laurate
                                                34

   To assess their long term compatibility the samples were stored at 54'C for 28 days and
   changes in appearance and rheology were assessed.
   Viscosity
 5 The viscosity was measured for C1-C3, C5, and C6 after 24 hours and 28 days, and at
   different torque values. The results are listed in Table 2.
   Table 2. - Viscosity of Concentrates
                     Viscosity after 24 hours (Pa.s)          Viscosity after 28 days (Pa.s)
       Example      At Low torque       At Torque of 5      At Low torque       At Torque of 5
                       of 0pgNm              pNm               of 0pgNm             pNm
          Cl             15482               14328               12613              10589
          C2             4217                 3874                3764              3005
          C3              1428                1274                1320               1250
          C5             2458                 2257                1972               1614
          C6             15241               15821               14817              16993
10 The results show that the viscosities of all of the concentrates C1-C3, C5, and C6 remain
   relatively constant from an initial point at 24 hours to 28 days. This also remains the case
   even when placed under some shear.
   Stability
15 The stability with regard to separation for concentrates C1-C6 was tested visually at both
   room temperature and elevated temperature. Table 3 shows the visual observations for the
   concentrates Cl -C6 over 28 days.
   Table 3. - Visual Stability Observations
                                                       7 days         28 days
                       Sample        24 hours
                                    RT     54 0 C    RT    54 0C    RT    54 0 C
                         Cl         NS      NS       NS     NS      NS     NS
                         C2         NS      NS       NS     NS      NS     NS
                         C3         NS      NS       NS     NS      NS     NS
                                                  35

                          C4        NS       NS       NS   NS     NS      NS
                          C5        NS       NS       NS   NS     NS      NS
                          C6        NS       NS       NS   NS     NS      NS
   NS - signifies no separation
   RT - room temperature
 5 All the samples did not appear to be visually impacted either at room temperature or at
   elevated temperature over the 28 day period. None of the concentrates C1-C6 showed
   signs of the structurant SI precipitating out.
   It should be noted that testing at elevated temperature was performed as it is generally
10 understood to represent an accelerated way of assessing room temperature properties over
   time. For example, a concentrate kept at 54'C for 14 days is understood to provide similar
   results compared to keeping a concentrate at room temperature for two years.
   As a result of the stability and viscosity tests it can be seen that the structurant SI was
15 shown to produce stable surfactant adjuvant formulations with a number of surfactants
   covering a broad range of chemistries, including examples of alkylpolysaccharides, castor
   oil ethoxylates, and ethoxylated triglyceride esters. Structurant Si was been shown to
   successfully structure all the surfactants tested.
20 Example Formulations with Active
   Concentrates were formed including the herbicide mesotrione, a surfactant adjuvant
   (polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan mono laurate), and structurant Si.     The mesotrione (from
   Helm AG) had an assay of 98%, and specific gravity of 1.47 g/cm 3 .
25 To form the concentrates, the surfactant adjuvant, water (if applicable), and structurant S1
   were combined and heated to 80-85'C with stirring until all solid had melted. When the
   mixture had cooled the active and any other components were added and stirred together at
   around 500 rpm. The resultant mixture was then milled at around 3,500 rpm using an
   Eiger Torrance mini motor mill.          The concentrates were pH adjusted using 0.iM
                                                   36

   phosphoric acid to approximately pH 2.5 to satisfy the mesotrione requirement.       The
   formulations of the active containing concentrates are shown in Table 4.
   Table 4. - Concentrates with Mesotrione
                          Component        C7 (wt. %)          C8 (wt. %)
                       Mesotrione              15.0                9.7
                       Atlox 4913               1.0               0.97
                       Atlas G5002L             0.5               0.48
                       Tween 20                80.5              85.85
                       Sl                       3.0                3.0
                       Water                    0.0                0.0
 5
   Atlox 4913 is an acrylic copolymer dispersant for SCs. Atlas G5002L is polyalkylene
   glycol ether polymeric emulsifier. Tween 20 is a surfactant adjuvant (polyoxyethylene
   (20) sorbitan mono laurate). All three components are obtainable from Croda Europe Ltd,
   UK.
10
   Formulations C7 and C8 contained mesotrione, with a continuous phase of Tween 20, and
   no additional water.
   Stability
15 The stability with regard to separation for concentrates C7 and C8 was tested visually at
   room temperature (RT) after 24 hours.      Table 5 shows the visual observations for the
   concentrates C7 and C8.
   Table 5. - Visual Stability Observations
                                  Sample         24 hours at RT
                                    C7             no separation
                                    C8             no separation
                                                37

   Both concentrates C7 and C8 did not appear to be visually impacted at room temperature
   over the 24 hour period.       Neither concentrate showed signs of the structurant Sl
   precipitating out at 24 hours.
 5
   The formulations C7 and C8 were reproduced but with differing levels of Sl, and were pH
   adjusted with phosphoric acid to pH 3.5. These further concentrates are shown in Table 6.
   Table 6. - Further Concentrates with Mesotrione
                          Component         C9 (wt. %)        C10 (wt. %)
                        Mesotrione               15.0                9.7
                        Atlox 4913                1.0               0.97
                        Atlas G5002L              0.5               0.48
                        Tween 20                 81.0              86.35
                        Sl                        2.5                2.5
                        Water                     0.0                0.0
10
   Again, both concentrates C9 and C10 contained mesotrione, with a continuous phase of
   Tween 20, and no additional water.
   Stability
15 The stability with regard to separation for the concentrates C9 and C 10 was tested visually
   at both room temperature and elevated temperature. Table 7 shows the visual observations
   for the concentrates C9 and C10 over 14 days.
   Table 7. - Visual Stability Observations
                                     24 hours           7 days             14 days
                   Sample
                                    RT      54 0 C    RT     54 0 C      RT     54 0 C
                      C9            NS       NS       NS    2% St        NS     2% St
                      C1O           NS       NS       NS    4% St        NS     6% St
20
                                                  38

   NS - signifies no separation
   RT - room temperature
   St - signifies separation at top (>1 and <20%) oil or water
 5 Table 7 shows the visual observation data for the formulations at room temperature and
   accelerated heat testing.
   Both the concentrates C9 and C1O did not appear to be visually impacted at room
   temperature over a 14 day period. Neither concentrate showed signs of the structurant SI
10 precipitating out.
   At elevated temperature some separation was observed at longer periods of 7 and 14 days,
   albeit the amount of sedimentation was low.
15 Suspensibility
   The suspensibility of the concentrates C9 and C10 was also tested, with the results shown
   in Table 8.
   Table 8. - Suspensibility Results
                                   Formulation     % at 24 hours
                                        C9               84.7
                                       C1O               89.9
20
   All formulations passed the suspensibility testing giving high percentage results well
   above the 60% pass mark.
   Viscosity
25 The viscosity of the concentrates C9 and C1O was also tested over a 14 day period, with
   the results shown in Table 9. The shear rates were 3.4 s-1 for 10 rpm, and 34 s-1 for 100
   rpm.
                                                39

   Table 9. - Viscosity Results
                           24 hours 10    24 hours 100      14 days 10      14 days 100
              Sample
                             rpm (cP)       rpm (cP)         rpm (cP)        rpm (cP)
                C9             5125            950              5575            1138
                C1O            5875            1255            4725             908
   Table 8 shows the viscosity data for both concentrates after 24 hours and 14 days. The
   data shows that when compared to the result at 24 hours, the viscosity after 14 days was
 5 virtually the same. This stability in viscosity over time was seen at both low and higher
   shear.
   ParticleSize
   The particle sizes in each concentrate were also tested at elevated temperature and across a
10 14 day period. The particle size results are shown in Table 10.
   Table 10. - Particle Size Results
                                   24 hours at 54*C           14 days at 54*C
                     Sample
                                  D(0.5)       D(0.9)       D(0.5)       D(0.9)
                       C9          8.138       37.754        5.324       24.570
                      C10          6.631       31.377        6.063       23.424
   Table 10 shows the particle size data for all the formulations over 14 days. Particle size is
15 known to be related to suspensibility.      An increase in particle sizes would indicate a
   decrease in suspensibility. The particle sizes of the concentrates did not show any increase
   in particle sizes across the 14 day period therefore indicating suspensibility is maintained
   even at elevated temperature.
20 pH testing
   The pH was recorded for concentrate C9 and C1O after 24 hours and 28 days for samples
   held at 54'C. The results are shown in Table 11.
   Table 11. - pH data
                                                 40

                          Sample       pH at 24 hours     pH at 28 days
                             C9             3.51                3.54
                            C1O             3.44                3.49
   Table 11 shows the pH data for both concentrate C9 and C10 at 24 hours and 28 days. The
   data shows that none of the formulations underwent any significant shift in pH during the
   period.
 5
   The structurants of the present invention were used successfully to structure several
   formulations, with stability monitored over 14 days.      The structurants provided good
   rheology performance over time, low or no sedimentation, and little particle size
   degradation.    The concentrates also passed suspensibility testing indicating that the
10 structurants of the present invention do not cause negative effects when the concentrates
   are diluted with water as they would be prior to normal use.
   It is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the details of the above
   embodiments, which are described by way of example only. Many variations are possible.
15
                                                41

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. An agrochemical concentrate comprising;
            i) at least one structurant, said structurant being a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16
 5 dicarboxylic acid;
            ii) surfactant adjuvant; and
            iii) optionally at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient.
   2. The concentrate according to claim 1, wherein the structurant is obtainable by the
10 reaction of;
            C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid;
            C2 to C8 polyol; and
            C 16 to C30 monocarboxylic fatty acid.
15 3. The concentrate according to claim 2, wherein the C2 to C8 polyol is selected from
   ethylene glycol, isosorbide, 1,3-propanediol, trimethylolpropane, glycerol, erythritol,
   threitol, pentaerythritol, sorbitan, arabitol, xylitol, ribitol, fucitol, mannitol, sorbitol,
   galactitol, iditol, inositol, or volemitol.
20 4. The concentrate according to claim 3, wherein the C2 to C8 polyol is sorbitol or sorbitan.
   5. The concentrate according to any of claims 2 to 4, wherein the C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic
   acid is a linear dicarboxylic acid having terminal carboxyl groups bridged by a C6 to C 1 4
   alkyl group, or a C6 to C 14 alkenyl group.
25
   6. The concentrate according to claim 5, wherein the C4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid is selected
   from adipic acid (hexanedioic acid), pimelic acid (heptanedioic acid), suberic acid, azelaic
   acid, sebacic acid (decanedioic acid), undecane dicarboxylic acid, dodecane dicarboxylic
   acid (dodecanedioic acid), tetradecanedioic acid, hexadecanedioic acid, or combinations
30 thereof.
                                                  42

   7. The concentrate according to claim 6, wherein the C4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid is selected
   from suberic acid, sebacic acid, or dodecanedioic acid.
   8. The concentrate according to any of claims 2 to 7, wherein the C16 to C30
 5 monocarboxylic fatty acid is selected from palmitic acid, stearic acid, arachidic acid,
   behenic acid, lignoceric acid, cerotic acid, or montanic acid.
   9. The concentrate according to any of claims 2 to 8, wherein the molar ratio of C 4 to C16
   dicarboxylic acid, C2 to C8 polyol, and C16 to C30 monocarboxylic fatty acid present in the
10 structurant is preferably in the range from 0.5-1.5:1.5-2.5:2.5-3.5 respectively.
   10. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the molecular weight
   (number average) of the structurant is in the range from 600 to 8,000.
15 11. The concentrate according to any of claims 2 to 10, wherein the structurant is selected
   from the reaction product of suberic acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar ratio of
   1:2:3 respectively; sebacic acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3
   respectively; or dodecanedioic acid and sorbitol and behenic acid at a molar ratio of 1:2:3
   respectively.
20
   12. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the amount of structurant
   present in the concentrate is in the range from 0.1 wt.% to 12.0 wt.%.
   13. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the surfactant adjuvant is a
25 liquid, and forms the continuous phase of the concentrate.
   14. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the surfactant adjuvant is
   either;
           a non-ionic surfactant selected from polyethylene oxide-polypropylene oxide block
30 copolymers, polyethylene glycol ethers of linear alcohols, reaction products of fatty acids
   with ethylene oxide and/or propylene oxide, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
   copolymers of polyvinyl alcohol and polyvinylpyrrolidone, copolymers of (meth)acrylic
                                                  43

   acid and (meth)acrylic acid esters, alkyl ethoxylates and alkylaryl ethoxylates which can
   be optionally phosphated and optionally neutralised with bases, alkanol alkoxylates, and
   polyoxyalkylenamine derivatives; or
           an anionic surfactant selected from alkali metal and alkaline earth metal salts of
 5 alkyl sulphonic acids or alkyl arylsulphonic acids, salts of polystyrenesulphonic acids,
   salts of polyvinylsulphonic      acids, salts of naphthalene-sulphonic    acid-formaldehyde
   condensation products, salts of condensation products of naphthalenesulphonic acid, and
   phenolsulphonic acid and formaldehyde, and salts of lignosulphoric acid.
10 15. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the surfactant adjuvant is
   selected   from polyoxyethylene        (7)   C12-C15   alcohol (Synperonic    A7),   C8-C10
   alkylpolysaccharide      (AL2575),     polyoxyethylene    (35)  castor   oil   (Etocas   35),
   polyoxyethylene      (12)   di-ethyl     ethanol   amine   mono-trimerate    (Atlox    4915),
   polyoxyethylene (40) sorbitol oleate (Arlatone TV), or polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan
15 mono laurate (Tween 20).
   16. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the surfactant adjuvant
   concentration is greater than about 50 wt.% of the total concentrate.
20 17. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the agrochemical active is
   a solid phase agrochemical active.
   18. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the concentrate is
   formulated as a SC, OD, or SE formulation.
25
   19. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the concentrate continuous
   phase is at least 50 wt.% non-aqueous.
   20. The concentrate according to any preceding claim, wherein the ratio of structurant to
30 surfactant adjuvant in the concentrate is at a weight ratio of from about 1:20 to about
   1:100.
                                                   44

   21. An agrochemical concentrate comprising;
           i) at least one structurant, said structurant being a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16
   dicarboxylic acid; and
           ii) surfactant adjuvant,
 5 wherein the amount of surfactant adjuvant present in the concentrate is at least 50 wt.%.
   22. A method of preparing a concentrate in accordance with any of claims 1 to 20, said
   method comprising mixing;
           optionally at least one agrochemical active and/or nutrient;
10         at least one structurant, said structurant being a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16
   dicarboxylic acid; and
           surfactant adjuvant;
   and grinding and/or milling said mixture.
15 23. An agrochemical formulation formed by dilution of the concentrate in accordance with
   any of claims I to 21.
   24. A structurant for use in an agrochemical concentrate in accordance with any of claims
   I to 21, said structurant being a polyol ester of a C 4 to C16 dicarboxylic acid.
20
   25. Use of a polyol ester of a C4 to C1 6 dicarboxylic acid as a structurant in an
   agrochemical concentrate comprising surfactant adjuvant and at least one agrochemical
   active and/or nutrient.
25 26. A method of treating vegetation to control pests, the method comprising applying an
   agrochemical formulation in accordance with claim 23, either to said vegetation or to the
   immediate environment of said vegetation.
                                                  45

