                                         ABSTRACT
[00186]     Systems and methods for estimating milk producing animal feed conversion
efficiency and carbon footprint, such as to allow adjustments to be made in the animals feed
to improve milk production, reduce waste, and/or reduce the carbon footprint. In
embodiments of the present application, a system is provided that integrates a digestion
model of an animal feed with milk production efficiency and carbon footprint. Such systems
and methods are useful to analyse and compare different animal feed compositions that differ
from one another in one or more components and/or to analyse the effect of the addition of a
feed supplement on milk production efficiency and/or carbon footprint.

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
          SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ESTIMATING FEED EFFICIENCY AND
                  CARBON FOOTPRINT FOR MILK PRODUCING ANIMAL
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
 5   [00011      This application is being filed on December 31, 2014, as a PCT International
     Patent application and claims priority to Canadian Patent Application Serial No. 2839027
     filed on January 2, 2014, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
     entirety,
10                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
     [0002]      This application relates to a systems and methods for estimating and optimizing
     feed efficiency and carbon footprint for milk producing animal(s).
                                            BACKGROUND
15   [00031      Milk is naturally produced in mammals, but certain types of mammals, referred
     to herein as milk producing animals, are commonly raised for the primary purpose of
     producing milk that will ultimately be used or sold to businesses or consumers as a source
     of food.
     [0004]      Milk producing animals obtain the nutrients needed for milk production
20   through the food that they eat. The composition of animal feed is often selected in an
     attempt to provide the animals with the proper nutrition needed to support milk
     production. Any portion of the animal feed that is indigestible by the animal passes
     through the animal without benefitting milk production. The cost attributable to such
     portions of the animal feed is, at least in theory, an unnecessary expense. Accordingly, it
25   would be beneficial if the composition of the animal feed could be evaluated and adjusted
     to reduce the portion of the animal feed that is indigestible by the milk producing animal.
     [00051      Another consideration in the selection of animal feed is the extent of
     greenhouse gases generated and/or emitted from milk producing animals after they
     consume the animal feed. Some compositions of animal feed will cause the milk
30   producing animal to generate more greenhouse gases than others. The greater the
     greenhouse gas emission, the greater the carbon footprint of the milk producing animal or
     collection of milk producing animals. Accordingly, it would be beneficial if the

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     composition of the feed could be evaluated and adjusted to reduce the resulting carbon
     footprint.
 5
                                              SUMMARY
     [0006]      The present application relates to systems and methods for estimating milk
     producing animal feed conversion efficiency and carbon footprint, such as to allow
     adjustments to be made in the animals feed to improve milk production, reduce waste,
10   and/or reduce the carbon footprint. In embodiments of the present application, a system is
     provided that integrates a digestion model of an animal feed with milk production
     efficiency and carbon footprint. Such systems and methods are useful to analyze and
     compare animal feed compositions that differ from one another in one or more
     components and/or to analyze the effect of the addition of a feed supplement on milk
15   production efficiency and/or carbon footprint. In embodiments, the systems and methods
     described herein provide a feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise. A feed
     parameter-carbon footprint compromise is useful to adjust animal feed composition by
     balancing milk production efficiency with effects on carbon footprint. Different feed
     supplements or amounts of feed supplements, and/or different feed compositions are
20   selected based on the desired feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise. The systems
     and methods can be used for a single animal or a plurality of animals.
     [0007]      The present application includes a method for estimating impact of a milk
     producing animal on carbon footprint, comprising providing one or more primary
     parameters associated with one or more of: a) a measure of microbial protein for a selected
25   feed sample from a digestion model associated with the milk producing animal; b) a
     measure of total digestible nutrients for the selected feed sample from the digestion model
     associated with the milk producing animal; and c) an amount or a percent of components
     in the selected feed sample; producing with a computing device a baseline performance
     comprising milk production efficiency using at least one or more of the primary
30   parameters and one or more secondary parameters for the milk producing animal, wherein
     the one or more secondary parameters are associated with one or more of: a measure of
     animal weight, a measure of animal milk production, a measure of animal milk protein, a
     measure of animal dry matter intake, a measure of animal milk price, and a measure of
                                                    2

   WO 2015/103360                                                                 PCT/US2014/072931
     animal dietary protein: and producing with the computing device a carbon footprint for the
     milk producing animal using the baseline performance.
     [0008]      Sonic embodiments further include displaying the carbon footprint for the milk
     producing animal. In sonic embodiments the displaying comprises displaying the carbon
 5   footprint for the milk producing animal as a function of feed intake of the animal. Further,
     in some embodiments the carbon footprint is displayed as a function of feed parameters to
     provide an optimal feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise.
     [00091      In some embodiments, the one or more secondary parameters further include a
     measure of fat, a measure of fiber, a measure of calcium, a measure of phosphorous, or a
10   measure of energy.
     [0010]      In embodiments of the present application, the digestion model is a chemical or
     biological fennentation model. In other embodinients the biological fermentation model is
     an in vitro biological model.
     [00111      In some embodiments, a method for adjusting a feed composition, comprises a)
15   digesting a feed sample in an in vitro fermentation system for a milk producing animal to
     generate a value for a primary parameter comprising a i) a measure of microbial protein
     for the feed sample; or ii) a measure of total digestible nutrients for the feed sample; b)
     measuring one or more secondary parameters selected front the group consisting of animal
     weight, aninial milk production, aninial milk protein, animal dry matter intake, aninial
20   milk price, and animal dietary protein to generate a value for the one or more secondary
     parameters; c) producing a baseline performance value comprising milk production
     efficiency using at least one or more of the values of the primary parameters and one or
     more of the values of the secondary parameters using a computing device; d) producing a
     carbon footprint for the milk producing animal using the baseline performance using a
25   computing device; and e) adjusting a component of the feed sample to change the baseline
     performance, the carbon foot print or both.
     [0012]      In other embodiments, a method for adjusting a feed composition, comprises:
     a) determining a characteristic of a first feed sample to generate a value for a primary
     parameter; b) measuring one or more secondary parameters selected from the group
30   consisting of animal weight, animal milk production, animal milk protein, animal dry
     matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary protein to generate a value for the one
     or more secondary parameters; c) producing a baseline performance value comprising
     milk production efficiency using the value of the primary parameter and one or more of

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     the values of the secondary parameters using a computing device; d) producing a carbon
     footprint for the milk producing animal using the baseline performance using a computing
     device; and e) adjusting a component of the first feed sample to change either the baseline
     performance, the carbon foot print or both.
 5   [00131       In embodiments, the steps of methods as described herein are repeated until a
     feed composition is identified that maintains or increases milk production efficiency and
     decreases carbon footprint as compared to the first feed sample.
     [00141       In embodiments of the present application, the digestion model is a chemical or
     biological fermentation model. In other embodiments the biological fermentation model is
10   an in vitro biological model. In some embodiments, the in vitro digestion system
     comprises digesting the feed sample with one digestive enzymes in the presence of a
     microbial population.
     [00151       In embodiments, the characteristic of the feed sample is selected from the
     group consisting of a measure of protein, a measure of carbohydrate, a measure of fat, a
15   measure of dry matter, and a measure of gross energy. In some embodiments, determining
     the characteristics of the feed sample comprises measuring a characteristic of the feed
     sample. For example, measurements of characteristics can be made using a chemical
     method or near infrared spectroscopy. In other embodiments, characteristics of the feed
     sample are calculated.
20   [00161       In embodiments, adjusting a component of the feed sample comprises adding a
     feed supplement to the feed sample. In other embodiments adjusting a component of the
     feed sample comprises altering the form of protein or amount of protein in the sample. In
     further embodiments, adjusting a component of the feed sample comprises altering the
     digestibility of the feed sample.
25   [0017]       In some embodiments according to the present application, producing with the
     computing device comprises calculating with the computing device. In embodiments, a
     baseline performance is calculated and/ or a carbon footprint is calculated. Some
     embodiments further include producing with the computing device feed efficiency in unit
     volume of milk produced per unit weight of feed consumed. Other embodiments further
30   include producing with the computing device NRC metabolizable protein required to
     support milk output in unit weight/time based on one or more of the secondary parameters.
     Further embodiments include producing with the computing device escape protein in units
     of weight. Additional em bodintents include producing with the computing device a
                                                    4

   WO 2015/103360                                                             PCT/US2014/072931
     change in milk production or feed efficiency for feed augmented with one or more feed
     supplements. In some embodiments, the producing with the computing device the change
     in milk production or feed efficiency comprises calculating an amount of the one or more
     feed supplements needed to obtain increased milk production or increased milk production
 5   efficiency.
     [00181      The present application further includes a method for estimating impact of a
     plurality of milk producing animals on carbon footprint, comprising providing one or more
     primary parameters associated with one or more of: a) a measure of microbial protein
     based on a selected feed sample in a digestion model associated with at least one of the
10   milk producing animals; b) a measure of total digestible nutrients based on the selected
     feed sample in the digestion model associated with at least one of the milk producing
     animals; and c) the amount or percent of components in the feed sample; producing with a
     computing device a performance for each animal comprising milk production efficiency
     using at least one or more of the primary parameters and one or more secondary
15   parameters for each animal, wherein the one or more secondary parameters are associated
     with one or more of: a measure of animal weight, a measure of animal milk production, a
     tneasure of animal milk protein, a measure of animal dry matter intake, a measure of
     animal milk price, and a measure of animal dietary protein; producing with the computing
     device a carbon footprint per animal using the baseline performance; and aggregating the
20   carbon footprint per animal for each animal of the plurality of milk producing animals to
     provide an aggregate carbon footprint.
     [00191      Some embodiments further include displaying the carbon footprint for each
     animal of the plurality of milk producing animals. Other embodiments include displaying
     the aggregate carbon footprint for the milk producing animals as a function of feed intake
25   of the animals. In some embodiments, the aggregate carbon footprint is displayed as a
     fumction of feed parameters to provide an optimal feed parameter-aggregate carbon
     footprint compromise.
     [00201      In some embodiments, the plurality of milk producing animals includes
     animals of different species or from different phylogenetic families. Further, in some
30   embodiments the plurality of milk producing animals are animals of the same species or
     from same phylogenetic family.
                                                   5

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     [00211      In some embodiments, the one or more secondary parameters further include
     one or more of a measure of fat, a measure of fiber, a measure of calcium, a measure of
     phosphorous, and a measure of energy.
     [0022]      The present application includes embodiments in which the digestion model is
 5   a chemical or biological fermentation model. In some embodiments the fermentation
     nodel is an in vitro biological model.
     [00231      In further embodiments of the present application, the producing with the
     computing device comprises calculating with the computing device. Sone embodiments
     further include producing with the computing device feed efficiency in unit volume of
10   milk produced per unit weight of feed consunied. Some embodiments further include
     producing with the computing device NRC metabolizable protein required to support milk
     output in unit weight/time based on one or more of the secondary parameters. Other
     embodiments further include producing with the computing device a change in milk
     production or feed efficiency for feed augmented with one or more feed supplements. In
15   some embodiments, producing with the computing device a change in milk production or
     feed efficiency comprises calculating an amount of the one or more feed supplements
     needed to obtain an increase in milk production or ami increase in milk production
     efficiency. In some embodiments, the producing with the computing device a carbon
     footprint per animal includes producing a carbon footprint per animal using the increased
20   milk production or increased milk production efficiency.
     [00241      Some embodiments further include calculating with the computing device
     escape protein in units of weight. In some embodiments, the aggregating the carbon
     footprint per animal for each animal of a plurality of animals includes aggregating a
     carbon footprint per animal for each animal of the plurality of ainials with feed
25   augmented with the one or more feed supplements, to provide an aggregate carbon
     footprint as a function of an amount of the one or more feed supplements or milk
     production. Sonic embodiments further include displaying the aggregate carbon footprint
     as a function of the selected amount of the one or more feed supplements or milk
     production. Other embodiments further include producing with the computing device a
30   required protein level or protein savings.
     [0025]      The present application also includes a method for estimating an increase in
     one or more of milk production and milk production efficiency in a milk producing animal
     provided with animal feed containing one or more feed supplements, comprising
                                                   6

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     providing a baseline performance comprising one or more of milk production and milk
     production efficiency for the inilk producing animal; providing a selected amount of one
     or more feed supplements; and calculating with the computing device an increase in one or
     more of milk production and milk production efficiency in the milk producing animal fed
 5   using the selected amount of the one or more feed supplements relative to the baseline
     performance.
     [00261       Some embodiments further include calculating with the computing device a
     carbon footprint for the animal. Additionally, some embodiments include displaying the
     carbon footprint as a function of the selected amount of the one or feed supplements or
10   milk production. Some embodiments also include calculating with the computing device a
     required dietary protein or protein savings.
     [0027]       The present application also includes a method for estimating an increase in
     one or more of milk production and milk production efficiency in a plurality of milk
     producing animals provided with animal feed containing one or more feed supplements,
15   comprising: providing a baseline performance comprising one or more of milk production
     and milk production efficiency for the plurality of milk producing animals; providing a
     selected amount of one or more feed supplements; and calculating with a computing
     device an increase in one or more of milk production and milk production efficiency per
     animal in the plurality of milk producing animals fed using the selected amount of the one
20   or more feed supplements relative to the baseline performance.
     [00281       Some embodiments further include calculating with the computing device a
     carbon footprint per animal for each animal of the plurality of animals. Other
     embodiments also include aggregating the carbon footprint per animal for each animal of
     the plurality of animals to provide an aggregate carbon footprint as a function of the
25   selected amount of the one or more feed supplements or milk production. Additionally,
     some embodiments include displaying the carbon footprint as a function of the selected
     amount of the one or more feed supplements or milk production.
     [0029]       The present application also includes a system for estimating the impact of a
     milk producing animal on carbon footprint, the system comprising at least one processing
30   device; and at least one computer readable storage device, the at least one computer
     readable storage device storing data instructions. The data instructions, when executed by
     the at least one processing device cause the at least one processing device to generate a
     baseline performance engine configured to receive one or more primary parameters

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     associated with one or more of a measure of microbial protein and a measure of total
     digestible nutrients, and to produce a baseline performance comprising one or more of
     milk production and milk production efficiency using at least one of the primary
     parameters and one or more secondary parameters, wherein the one or more secondary
 5   parameters are associated with a measure of one or more of animal weight, animal milk
     production, animal milk protein, animal dry matter intake, animal milk price, and animal
     dietary protein; and a carbon footprint engine configured to use the baseline performance
     to produce a carbon footprint for the animal.
     [0030]       Some embodiments further include a display device, wherein the carbon
10   footprint for the animal is displayed on the display device as a function of feed intake of
     the animal.
     [00311       Some embodiments also include a plurality of computing devices, wherein a
     first processing device is part of a first computing device and a second processing device
     is part of a second computing device.
15   [00321       In some embodiments, the baseline performance engine operates on the first
     computing device to produce the baseline performance and the carbon footprint engine
     operates on the second computing device to produce the carbon footprint. In other
     embodiments, the first computing device is in data communication with the second
     computing device across one or more data communication networks. In another
20   embodiment, the baseline performance engine is configured to calculate the baseline
     performance and the carbon footprint engine is configured to calculate the carbon
     footprint.
     [0033]       The present application also includes a system for estimating the impact of a
     plurality of milk producing animals on carbon footprint, the system comprising: at least
25   one processing device; and at least one computer readable storage device, the at least one
     computer readable storage device storing data instructions that, when executed by the at
     least one processing device cause the at least one processing device to generate a baseline
     performance engine configured to receive one or more primary parameters associated with
     one or more of a measure of microbial protein and a measure of total digestible nutrients,
30   the baseline performance engine further configured to produce a baseline performance
     comprising milk production efficiency using at least one of the primary parameters and
     one and or more secondary parameters, wherein the one or more secondary parameters are
     associated with a measure of one or more of: animal weight, animal milk production,
                                                    8

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     animal milk protein, animal dry matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary
     protein; and a carbon footprint engine configured to use the baseline performance to
     produce a carbon footprint for each animal in the plurality of animals and aggregate the
     carbon footprint produced for each animal in the plurality of animals to provide an
 5   aggregate carbon footprint.
     [00341       Some embodiments further include a display device, wherein the display
     device displays the aggregated carbon footprint for the plurality of animals as a function of
     feed intake of the plurality of animals.
     [0035]       In some embodiments the baseline performance engine is configured to
10   calculate the baseline performance and the carbon footprint engine is configured to
     calculate the carbon footprint.
     [00361       Some embodiments further include a plurality of computing devices, wherein a
     first processing device is part of a first computing device and a second processing device
     is part of a second computing device. In some embodiments the first computing device is
15   in data communication with the second computing device across one or more data
     communication networks.
     [0037]       In some embodiments the plurality of milk producing animals includes animals
     of different species or from different phylogenetic families. In other embodiments the
     plurality of milk producing animals are animals of the same species or from same
20   phylogenetic family.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     [0038]       FIG. I is a schematic block diagram illustrating an example system for
     estimating the impact of a milk producing animal on carbon footprint.
25   [0039]       FIG. 2 is a schematic block diagram illustrating an example system for
     estimating the impact of a feed supplement on production and/or carbon footprint of a
     milk producing animal.
     [00401       FIG. 3 is a screen shot of an example user interface display 300 according to
     some embodiments of the present disclosure.
30
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0041]       Definitions
                                                    9

   WO 2015/103360                                                                  PCT/US2014/072931
     [00421       The following detailed description refers to subject matter in the accompanying
     drawings which show, by way of illustration, specific aspects and embodiments in which
     the present subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in
     sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present subject matter.
 5   References to "an", "one", or "various" embodiments in this application are not
     necessarily to the same embodiment, and such references contemplate more than one
     embodiment.
     [00431       As used in this application, the term animals(s" refers to non-human animals
     raised or used as a source of food. For example, animals include, but are not limited to,
10   domesticated livestock such as cattle, goats, sheep, buffalo, camel, horse, and water
     buffalo. A "milk producing animal(s)" is an animal raised or used for milk production.
     [0044]       As used in this application, the term "baseline performance" refers to various
     aspects of a milk producing animal when the milk producing animal is fed animal feed
     without one or more optional feed supplements. Examples of baseline performance
15   include a milk producing animal's milk production and/or in ilk production efficiency. The
     term "baseline performance engine" refers to a machine or portion of a machine that
     produces and/or calculates a baseline performance associated with a milk producing
     animal. In some embodiments, the baseline performance engine includes data
     instructions, which when executed by a processing device cause the processing device to
20   produce and/or calculate a baseline performance.
     [00451       As used in this application, the term "carbon footprint" refers to the generation
     and/or emission of a set of greenhouse gases. As used herein, carbon footprint is primarily
     focused on the generation and/or emission of greenhouse gases by a milk producing
     animal. Typical greenhouse gases generated by an animal include carbon dioxide and
25   methane. Carbon footprint can refer to the generation and/or emission of gases by an
     individual animal or a collection of animals. The term "aggregate carbon footprint" refers
     to the sum of the carbon footprints of a collection of animals. A collection of animals can
     be part of a single farm or distributed across a collection of one or more farms or other
     locations. A collection of one or more animal locations is referred to herein as an
30   "enterprise." The term "carbon footprint engine" refers to a machine or portion of a
     machine that produces and/or calculates a carbon footprint associated with a milk
     producing animal or collection of milk producing animals. In some embodiments the
                                                     10

   WO 2015/103360                                                                 PCT/US2014/072931
     carbon footprint engine includes data instructions, which when executed by a processing
     device cause the processing device to produce and/or calculate a carbon footprint.
     [0046]      As used herein in this application, the term "dry matter intake" (DMI) refers to
     the amount of a feed an animal consumes per day on a moisture free basis.
 5   [00471      As used in this application, the term "estimating" refers to producing,
     determining, and/or calculating one or more values that predict or approximate an actual
     value.
     [00481      As used in this application, the term "fermentation model(s)" or "digestion
     modelss" refers to an in vitro digestion model that mimics in vivo digestion of an animal,
10   In embodiments of the present application, the animal is a ruminant anitnal. The
     gastrointestinal tract of ruminant animals is characterized by multi-compartment stomachs
     and microbial fermentation of components of the feed. An example of a fermentation or
     digestion model is a batch-culhure, rumen-fluid, gas-fermnentation system combined with
     mathematical analysis to allow for the differentiation of rapid and slowly-fermenting
15   carbohydrate pools in individual feedstuffs or TMR samples. The rate and extent of
     organic matter degradation, can be determined with such system by monitoring gaseous
     fermentation products (C02, methane) of microbial metabolism in addition to C02
     produced by the buffering of microbial produced short-chained fatty acids (SCFA,
     primarily acetate and butyrate).
20   [0049]      As used in this application, the term "feed(s)" or "animal feed(s)" refers to
     materials) that are consumed by animals and contribute energy and/or nutrients to an
     animal's diet. Animal feeds typically include a number of different components that may
     be present in forms such as concentrate(s), premix(es) co-product(s), or pellets. Examples
     of feeds and feed components include, but are not limited to, Total Mixed Ration (TMR),
25   corn, soybean, forage(s), grain(s), distiller grain(s), sprouted grains, legutnes, vitamins,
     amino acids, minerals, molasses, fiber(s), fodder(s), grassess, hay, straw, silage, kernelss,
     leaves, meal, soluble(s), and supplement(s). As used herein the term "selected animal
     feed(s)" refers to an animal feed selected for analysis using the methods and systems
     described herein.
30   [0050]      As used in this application, the term "sample(s) of animal feed" or "feed
     sample(s)" refers to a representative portion of an animal feed. In embodiments of the
     present application, a representative portion of an animal feed contains the same
                                                     11

   WO 2015/103360                                                                 PCT/US2014/072931
     components in similar proportions to that of the animal feed. A representative sample is
     preferably homogenous or substantially homogenous.
     [0051]       As used in this application, the term "feed efficiency" refers to a ratio of an
     amount of animal feed or component of animal feed that needs to be consumed by an
 5   animal to obtain a unit of production, such as weight gain, milk production, or egg
     production. The term "milk production efficiency" refers to a ratio of an amount of
     animal feed or component of animal feed that needs to be consumed by a milk producing
     animal to obtain a unit of milk production. In some embodiments, milk production
     efficiency is represented as a ratio of milk produced to the amount of feed or a feed
10   component consumed over a period of tiie.
     [0052]       As used in this application, the term "feed parameter(s)" refers to one or more
     qualities or characteristics associated with an animal feed sample. One example of a feed
     parameter is a cost of the feed, such as per unit weight or per unit volume.
     [00531       As used in this application, the term "feed parameter-carbon footprint
15   compromise" refers to a solution determined by balancing one or more feed parameters
     against one or more carbon footprint parameters. The term "optimal feed parameter
     carbon footprint compromise" refers to a most preferred solution determined by balancing
     one or more feed parameters against one or more carbon footprint parameters.
     [0054]       As used in this application, the term "feed supplement" refers to an animal feed
20   additive that, when combined with an animal feed, causes an increased milk production or
     increased milk production efficiency.
     [00551       As used in this application, the term "in vivo" refers to processes occurring
     within a living biological organism.
     [0056]       As used in this application, the term "in vitro" refers to processes occurring in
25   an artificial environment outside the living organism and to biological processes or
     reactions that would normally occur within an organism but are made to occur in an
     artificial environment. In vitro environments can include, but are not limited to, test tubes
     and cell culture.
     [0057]       As used in this application, the term "measure" refers to a quantifiable unit.
30   [0058]       As used in this application, the term "nutrient(s)" refers to a substance that is
     needed for an organism to live and/or grow. Nutrients include, but are not limited to,
     components such as protein, fat, carbohydrates (e.g., sugars), fiber, vitamins, calcium,
     iron, niacin, nitrogen, oxygen, carbon, phosphorus, potassium, sodium chloride, and
                                                     12

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     mixtures thereof. The term "total digestible nutrients" refers to a sum of the digestible
     nutrients in an animal feed, often determined from a digestion model as defined herein.
     [0059]      As used in this application, the term "primary parameter(s)" refers to data or
     information relating to nutritional content of a feed sample. Examples of primary
 5   parameters include a) a measure of microbial protein for a selected feed sample from a
     digestion model associated with the milk producing animal; b) a measure of total
     digestible nutrients for the selected feed sample from the digestion model associated with
     the milk producing animal; and c) an amount or a percent of components in the selected
     feed sample.
10   [0060]      As used in this application, the term "secondary parameter(s)" refers to data or
     information relating to factors that may influence an animal's milk production or carbon
     footprint, or the value or cost of same. Examples of secondary parameters include a
     measure of animal weight, a measure of animal milk production, a measure of animal milk
     protein, a measure of animal dry matter intake, a measure of animal milk price, and a
15   measure of animal dietary protein.
     [0061]      As used in this application, the term "microbial protein" refers to the protein
     provided by rumen microbes in a ruminant, or generated through a digestion model of a
     ruminant. Microbial protein is one of the sources of metabolizable protein for a milk
     producing animal. As used in this application, the term "metabolizable protein" refers to a
20   sum of protein and amino acids reaching the small intestine from ruminally undegraded
     protein (RUP) and microbial protein, in ruminants. The term "NRC mnetabolizable
     protein" refers to how much protein is required to support the desired milk production.
     The NRC metabolizable protein requirements in gms/day are provided by the National
     Research Council of the United States (such as available at the National Academies Press
25   website) or the National Research Council of Canada.
     [00621      As used in this application, the term "escape protein" or "rumen
     undegradable protein" (RUP) refers to a portion of protein in an animal feed that resists
     rumen degradation and can be digested directly in the other stomachs or small intestine of
     a milk producing animal.
30   [0063]      As used in this application, the term "rumen degradable protein" (RD?) refers
     to a portion of protein in an animal feed that is degraded in the rumen.
     [0064]      As used in this application, the term "protein savings" refers to an amount or
     percent of protein in excess of a baseline performance. For example, the protein savings is
                                                    13

   WO 2015/103360                                                                   PCT/US2014/072931
     an additional amount of protein digested by a milk producing animal when fed a feed
     supplement along with an animal feed.
     [0065]       Detailed Description
     [0066]       The present application relates to systems and methods for estimating and
 5   optimizing milk producing animal feed conversion and carbon footprint.
     [00671       In embodiments of the present application, a system is provided that integrates
     a digestion model of an animal feed with milk production efficiency and carbon footprint.
     Such systems and methods are useful to analyze and compare different animal feed
     compositions that differ from one another in one or more components and/or to analyze
10   the effect of the addition of a feed supplement on milk production efficiency and/or carbon
     footprint.
     [0068]       In embodiments, an animal feed sample is digested using an in vitro
     fermentation model to generate a microbial protein output (g/mg). The microbial protein
     output is combined with one or more secondary parameters, such as animal weight
15   (kg),milk production (L), milk protein(%), dry matter intake (kg), milk price (S/L), or
     dietary protein (%) to produce a baseline performance of milk production efficiency. The
     baseline performance and other parameters are entered into a carbon footprint engine.
     Such parameters comprise farm variables and/or milk production efficiency measure of the
     baseline performance. Farm variables include but are not limited to number of animals in
20   herd, average live weight, average base milk price, farm size, and combinations thereof.
     Other parameters include but are not limited to milk yield, herd culling rate, calving
     interval, first calving age, total feed use per liter, diet soya inclusion rate, nitrogen use per
     ha, diesel use per cow, electric use per liter and combinations thereof. The output of
     carbon footprint includes grams CO
25   [0069]        In embodiments, the systems and methods described herein provide feed
     parameter-carbon footprint compromise. A feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise
     is useful to adjust animal feed composition by balancing milk production efficiency with
     effects on carbon foot print. Different feed supplement or amounts of feed supplements,
     and/or different feed compositions are selected based on the desired feed parameter- carbon
30   footprint compromise. The systems and methods can be used for a single animal or a
     plurality of animals.
     [0070]       Method For Estimating Impact of Milk Producing Animal(s) on Carbon
     Footprint
                                                      14

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     [00711       The present application includes a method for estimating impact of a milk
     producing animal on carbon footprint, comprising providing one or more primary
     parameters associated with one or more of: a) a measure of microbial protein for a selected
     feed sample from a digestion model associated with the milk producing animal; b) a
 5   measure of total digestible nutrients for the selected feed sample from the digestion model
     associated with the milk producing animal; and c) an amount or a percent of components
     in the selected feed sample; producing with a computing device a baseline performance
     comprising milk production efficiency using at least one or more of the primary
     parameters and one or more secondary parameters for the milk producing animal, wherein
10   the one or more secondary parameters are associated with one or more of: a measure of
     animal weight, a measure of animal milk production, a measure of animal milk protein, a
     measure of animal dry matter intake, a measure of animal milk price, and a measure of
     animal dietary protein; and producing with the computing device a carbon footprint for the
     milk producing animal using the baseline performance. Secondary parameters include but
15   are not limited to animal weight (kg),milk production (L), milk protein(%), dry matter
     intake (kg), milk price ($/L), or dietary protein (%).
     [0072]       The present application further includes a method for estimating impact of a
     plurality of milk producing animals on carbon footprint, comprising providing one or more
     primary parameters associated with one or more of: a) a measure of microbial protein
20   based on a selected feed sample in a digestion model associated with at least one of the
     milk producing animals; b) a measure of total digestible nutrients based on the selected
     feed sample in the digestion model associated with at least one of the milk producing
     animals; and c) the amount or percent of components in the feed sample; producing with a
     computing device a performance for each animal comprising milk production efficiency
25   using at least one or more of the primary parameters and one or more secondary
     parameters for each animal, wherein the one or more secondary parameters are associated
     with one or more of: a measure of animal weight, a measure of animal milk production, a
     measure of animal milk protein, a measure of animal dry matter intake, a measure of
     animal milk price, and a measure of animal dietary protein; producing with the computing
30   device a carbon footprint per animal using the baseline performance; and aggregating the
     carbon footprint per animal for each animal of the plurality of milk producing animals to
     provide an aggregate carbon footprint.
                                                    15

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     [0073]      The present application further includes in some embodiments, a method for
     adjusting a feed composition, comprises a) digesting a feed sample in an in vitro
     fermentation system for a milk producing animal to generate a value for a primary
     parameter comprising a i) a measure of microbial protein for the feed sample; or ii) a
 5   measure of total digestible nutrients for the feed sample; b) measuring one or more
     secondary parameters selected from the group consisting of animal weight, animal milk
     production, animal milk protein, animal dry matter intake, animal milk price, and animal
     dietary protein to generate a value for the one or more secondary parameters; c) producing
     a baseline performance value comprising milk production efficiency using at least one or
10   more of the values of the primary parameters and one or more of the values of the
     secondary parameters using a computing device; d) producing a carbon footprint for the
     milk producing animal using the baseline performance using a computing device; and e)
     adjusting a component of the feed sample to change the baseline performance, the carbon
     foot print or both.
15   [0074]      In other embodiments, a method for adjusting a feed composition, comprises:
     a) determining a characteristic of a first feed sample to generate a value for a primary
     parameter; b) measuring one or more secondary parameters selected front the group
     consisting of animal weight, animal milk production, animal milk protein, animal dry
     matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary protein to generate a value for the one
20   or more secondary parameters; c) producing a baseline performance value comprising
     milk production efficiency using the value of the primary parameter and one or more of
     the values of the secondary parameters using a computing device; d) producing a carbon
     footprint for the milk producing animal using the baseline performance using a computing
     device: and e) adjusting a component of the first feed sample to change either the baseline
25   performance, the carbon foot print or both.
     [0075]      Primary parameters
     [0076]      Some embodiments include providing or calculating one or more primary
     parameters. In some embodiments, the primary parameters include, but are not limited to,
     data or information relating to the nutritional content of an animal feed sample. Once
30   provided or calculated, the primary parameters can be used to produce or calculate a
     baseline performance associated with an animal feed, for example, as described herein.
     [0077]      One example of a primary parameter is a measure of microbial protein for a
     selected feed sample from a digestion model associated with the milk producing animal.
                                                     16

   WO 2015/103360                                                                 PCT/US2014/072931
     Another example of a primary parameter is a measure of total digestible nutrients for the
     selected feed sample from the digestion model associated with the milk producing animal.
     A further example of a primary parameter is an amount or a percent of components in the
     selected feed sample. Each of these example primary parameters are described in further
 5   detail herein.
     [00781      Feed samples
     [00791      One of the examples of a primary parameter, discussed above, is an amount or
     a percent of components in a selected feed sample. Once an animal feed of interest has
     been identified, a characteristic of the feed sample such as an amount or a percent of one
10   or more components in the selected animal feed can be identified. In some embodiments
     of the present application, the amount or percent of components can be determined
     analytically using wet chemistry or using spectroscopic methods such as NIR. In some
     embodiments, the amount or the percent is obtained from, retrieved from, or looked up in
     a table providing the amount or a percent of components or characteristics of the selected
15   feed sample including but not limited to dry matter, crude protein, crude digestible fiber,
     acid digestible fiber, neutral digestible fiber, minerals, vitamins, digestible energy, net
     energy and combinations thereof Examples of such tables are available for example, at
     the website for National Research Council of the United States or Canada.
     [0080]      Digestion Models
20   [0081]      A drawback with using data identifying the components in a selected feed
     sample, however, is that there are numerous variables that can impact the digestion of
     animal feed by a milk producing animal. As a result, some embodiments utilize one or
     more digestion models to obtain a more accurate understanding of how a feed sample will
     be digested by milk producing animals.
25   [0082]      In embodiments, the digestion model is a chemical or biological fermentation
     model. In other embodiments the biological fermentation model is an in vitro biological
     model.
     [0083]      Some embodiments involve digesting a feed sample to generate a value for a
     primary parameter, or providing or calculating a measure of microbial protein or total
30   digestible nutrients for a selected feed sample from an in vitro digestion model associated
     with the milk producing animal. Example of a suitable digestion model is the In Vitro
     Fermentation Model (IFM) (Alltech of Nicholasville, KY, US) or the FermentricsTM Gas
     Fernentation System (the "Fermentrics System"), (see the Fermentrics website). An in
                                                     17

   WO 2015/103360                                                                PCT/US2014/072931
     vitro digestion model comprises contacting a feed sample with one or more digestive
     enzymes and/or microbial population under conditions of pI, time and temperature that
     simulates the in vivo digestive process of the animal. Adjustments in the digestive process
     such as pH, time, and temperature are adjusted depending on the animal.
 5   [00841       Specific examples of fermentation digestion models include IPM and
     FermentricsT-M. The IFM process involves the fermentation of a feed sample (typically a
     total mixed ration (TMR)) by incubating the feed sample in buffered rumen fluid for 48
     hours, which simulates the in vivo digestive process of a milk producing animal. During
     the process, volatile fatty acids and microbial biomass are produced, along with
10   greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane. The IFM determines, for example,
     how carbohydrates and protein are fermented and as a result the amount or percent of
     nutrients that are available for digestion by a milk producing animal. In particular, in
     sonic embodiments, the IFM provides a measure of microbial protein for the selected feed
     sample. The Fermentrics'r      System utilizes a rumen-fluid batch culture, gas fermentation
15   system to evaluate a feed sample and generate gas fermentation data, including
     carbohydrate (Bi, B 2, B3) digestion rates.
     [0085]       Other embodiments involve providing or calculating a measure of total
     digestible nutrients for the selected feed sample from the digestion model associated with
     the milk producing animal. Total digestible nutrients can be calculated based on feed
20   analysis.
     [00861       Secondary parameters
     [00871       Some embodiments of the present disclosure, involve one or more secondary
     parameters. In some embodiments the secondary parameters include, but are not limited
     to, data or information relating to factors that may influence an animal's milk production
25   or carbon footprint, or the value or cost of same. In sonic embodiments, the one or more
     secondary parameters are measured. In sonte embodiments, the secondary parameters are
     provided or calculated, and can be used along with the primary parameters to produce or
     calculate a baseline performance associated with an animal feed.
     [00881       One example of a secondary parameter is a measure of animal weight, such as
30   a weight of a milk producing animal (such as 600 Kg).
     [0089]       Another example of a secondary parameter is a measure of animal milk
     production. In some embodiments the measure of animal milk production is expressed as
     a volume over a period of time (such as 35 Liters per day).
                                                    18

   WO 2015/103360                                                             PCT/US2014/072931
     [00901      Another example of a secondary parameter is a measure of animal milk protein.
     In some embodiments the measure of animal milk protein is expressed an amount of
     protein per unit volume. In another embodiment, the measure of animal milk protein is
     expressed as a percent (such as 3.2%).
 5   [0091]      Another example of a secondary parameter is a measure of animal dry matter
     intake (DMI). In some embodiments the measure of animal dry matter intake is the
     weight of animal feed excluding water content. In some embodiments the measure of
     animal dry matter intake is expressed as a weight over a period of time (such as 22 Kg per
     day).
10   [0092]      A further example of a secondary parameter is a measure of animal milk price.
     In some embodiments the measure of animal milk price is the value at which the milk can
     be sold per unit volume (such as $0.32 per Liter).
     [00931      Another example of a secondary parameter is a measure of animal dietary
     protein. In some embodiments the measure of dietary protein is expressed as an amount,
15   while in other embodiments it is expressed as a percent (such as 16%).
     [0094]      Other secondary parameters include but are not limited to measure of fat, a
     measure of fiber, a measure of calcium, a measure of phosphorous, or a measure of
     energy.
     [0095]      Any one or more of the secondary parameters, or other secondary parameters,
20   can be used in various embodiments.
     [00961      Producing a baseline performance
     [00971      Some embodiments include producing a baseline performance comprising milk
     production efficiency using at least one or more of the primary parameters and one or
     more secondary parameters for the milk producing animal. The baseline performance
25   indicates one or more aspects of a performance of an animal feed absent the presence of
     optional feed supplements, for example.
     [0098]      In some embodiments of the present application, producing a baseline
     performance involves producing or calculating an estimate of a milk producing animal's
     milk production when fed the animal feed sample., based upon one or more of the primary
30   and secondary parameters. In some embodiments, producing a baseline performance
     involves producing or calculating an estimate of the milk producing animal's milk
     production efficiency when fed the animal feed sample, such as a measure of a volume of
     milk produced per unit weight of feed consumed. Some embodiments produce or
                                                  19

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     calculate a measure of NRC metabolizable protein required to support milk output for the
     milk producing animal given the one or more secondary parameters. Some embodiments
     produce or calculate a measure of escape protein, such as an estimate of an amount of
     protein that escapes the rumen with the selected feed sample.
 5   [0099]        In some embodiments the baseline performance includes a measure of milk
     production. In some embodiments the milk production is a number input by a user (such
     as in liters / day). In another embodiments, the milk production is calculated based on an
     estimate of the animal's daily metabolizable protein intake, such as can be computed by
     the product of the dry matter intake (kg) and the percentage dietary protein contained in
10   the animal feed. The metabolizable protein can be estimated to be equal to the sum of the
     animal's metabolizable protein required for maintenance and the metabolizable protein
     available for lactation. An estimate of the metabolizable protein can be computed based
     on the animal's weight and the amount of dry matter intake. By subtracting the
     metabolizable protein required for maintenance from the total metabolizable protein, the
15   protein required for lactation can be obtained. This value can then be used to generate an
     estimated milk production based on the amount or percent of protein per unit of milk.
     [00100]       In some embodiments the baseline performance includes an estimate of feed
     efficiency. Feed efficiency (liters per kg) can be computed by dividing the milk
     production (liters) by the dry matter intake (kg).
20   [00101]       Other values are included in the baseline performance in some embodiments.
     [00102]       Producing a carbon footprint
     [00103]       Some embodiments include producing a carbon footprint for the milk
     producing animal using the baseline performance. In some embodiments, the carbon
     footprint is produced or calculated using a carbon footprint engine. One suitable example
25   of a carbon footprint engine is the E- CO2 carbon footprint software discussed herein. In
     sonte embodiments, the carbon footprint is produced or calculated using the baseline
     performance. In some embodiments the carbon footprint includes an estimated amount of
     greenhouse gas emissions that would be generated by one or more milk producing animals
     over a period of time. In some embodiments the estimate is a weight of the emissions over
30   a period of time, and in other embodiments the estimate is a weight of the emissions per
     unit weight of milk producing animal over a period of time (such as kg CO2 / kg weight),
     In some embodiments the carbon footprint includes other aspects in addition to
     greenhouse gas emissions.
                                                     20

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     [00104]     In some embodiments of the present application, the carbon footprint is
     displayed as a function of feed parameters to provide a feed parameter-carbon footprint
     compromise. A feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise is useftil for selecting a feed
     composition or adjusting a feed composition in order to balance feed parameters with a
 5   desired carbon footprint. Feed parameters include one or more qualities or characteristics
     associated with an animal feed sample. One example of a feed parameter is a cost of the
     feed or feed component, such as a cost of the feed per unit weight or per unit volume.
     Another example of a feed parameter is the feed efficiency or milk production efficiency.
     Similarly, some embodiments include carbon footprint parameters. Carbon footprint
10   parameters include one or more characteristics of a carbon footprint. One example of a
     carbon footprint parameter is a cost associated with the carbon footprint, such as a cost per
     unit weight.
     [001051     In some cases, a more expensive animal feed may provide a reduced carbon
     footprint than a less expensive feed. As a result, the feed parameters and the carbon
15   footprint parameters can be used to provide or calculate an optimal feed parameter-carbon
     footprint comprise. In some embodiments, the optimal value is the value that has the
     lowest cost feed to achieve a carbon footprint having reduced carbon footprint as
     compared to a reference feed sample or other feed sample under consideration, for
     example.
20   [001061     Another example feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise includes
     determining a baseline carbon footprint for a feed using the methods and systems as
     described herein and then determining the effect of altering a component of the feed
     composition on carbon foot print and selecting the feed composition that provides a
     decrease in carbon footprint from the baseline carbon foot print. For example, if it is
25   desired to obtain a certain revenue per cow based on price of milk per liter, an initial feed
     composition is selected that has a level of microbial protein that provides for milk
     production in liters sufficient to attain the desired revenue per cow. In embodiments, the
     milk production can be input into a carbon footprint engine to produce a baseline carbon
     foot print for that level of microbial protein. The effect of changes to the animal feed
30   composition, such as adding at least one feed supplement, is assessed on mitk production
     and carbon footprint. The process of changing the animal feed composition can be
     repeated until the feed supplement or combination of animal feed changes achieve the
     optimal feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise. In embodiments, the animal feed
                                                     21

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     composition is adjusted to maintain milk production at a desired level while decreasing the
     carbon footprint from the baseline carbon footprint. Such analysis can be conducted in a
     single cow or plurality of cows. Such analysis can be conducted on an annual basis, and
     feed composition adjusted to decrease carbon footprint on an annual basis.
 5   [001071     In embodiments, adjusting a component of the feed sample to change the
     baseline performance, the carbon foot print or both involves adding a feed supplement. In
     embodiments, adjusting a component of the feed sample comprises altering the form of
     protein or amount of protein in the sample. In embodiments, adjusting a component of the
     feed sample comprises altering the digestibility of the feed sample.
10   [001081     Some embodiments include aggregating the carbon footprint per animal for
     each animal of the plurality of milk producing animals to provide an aggregate carbon
     footprint. As one example, the aggregate of the carbon footprint per animal is the sum of
     the individual milk producing animal carbon footprints among a collection of milk
     producing animals in an enterprise, for the selected feed sample.
15   [00109]     In embodiment of the present application, the plurality of milk producing
     animals includes animals of different species or from different phylogenetic families. In
     other embodiments, the plurality of milk producing animals is animals of the same species
     or from same phylogenetic family. Typically the plurality of animals are of the same
     species and from the same herd. Herds range in size from about 5 to 500 animals or more.
20   [001101     Producing feed efficiency
     [001111     Some embodiments include producing or calculating feed efficiency. In some
     embodiments the feed efficiency is produced or calculated in unit volume of milk
     produced per unit weight of feed consumed. In some embodiments the feed efficiency is
     computed by dividing the estimated milk production (with or without feed supplements)
25   by the animal dry matter intake.
     [001121     Additional embodiments include producing a change in milk production or
     feed efficiency for feed augmented with one or more feed supplements, as discussed in
     further detail herein. In some embodiments, producing the change in milk production or
     feed efficiency comprises calculating an amount of the one or more feed supplements
30   needed to obtain increased milk production or increased milk production efficiency.
     [00113]     Producing NRC metabolizable protein
     [00114]     Some embodiments include producing NRC metabolizable protein required to
     support milk output in unit weight/time based on one or more of the secondary parameters.
                                                  L22

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     In some embodiments the NRC metabolizable protein requirement is obtained from a
     lookup table or chart, such as available from the National Research Council, as discussed
     herein, such as based at least in part on the weight of the animal, and additional of the
     secondary parameters, or other parameters.
 5   [001151      Producing escape protein
     [001161      Further embodiments include producing escape protein in units of weight. In
     embodiments, it is desirable to increase escape protein so that more protein can be
     absorbed in the small intestine.
     [00117]      In sone embodiments the escape protein is computed by subtracting the rumen
10   digestible protein from the total metabolizable protein. In some embodiments the rumen
     digestible protein is determined based on the results of a digestion model. For example, if
     the digestion model determines the total digestible nutrients as a percentage of the feed,
     the total digestible nutrients grains ) can be computed based on the animal's dry matter
     intake to determine runen digestible protein. As another example, if the digestion model
15   determines the microbial protein, the runten digestible protein can be computed based on
     the microbial protein and the dry matter intake,
     [00118]      Routing
     [00119]      Some embodiments include or involve a routing mode of operation. The
     routing mode of operation involves fixing the animal's milk production at a constant
20   amount, and determining a reduction in the required dry matter intake or required dietary
     protein that can be accomplished by including one or more feed supplements as part of the
     animal's feed. The feed supplements can be used to increase the animal's production of
     microbial protein, for example, so that the required dry matter intake and/or required
     dietary protein contained in the feed can be reduced without reducing the total amount of
25   metabolizable protein that the animal receives. In some embodiments of the present
     application, an appropriate decrease in dry matter intake or in required dietary protein is
     produced or computed. In some embodiments a cost savings is determined based on the
     use of one or more feed supplements, as a result of the reduction in required dry matter
     intake or required dietary protein.
30   [00120]      Increased milk production
     [00121]      In some embodiments, feed supplements are used to increase milk production.
     The feed supplements can provide additional protein, or can include components that
     enhance the production of microbial protein, thereby in either case (or both) increasing the
                                                     23

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     animal's metabolizable protein intake. The increase in milk production can be estimated
     based on the amount or percent of protein per unit of milk produced.
     [00122]     Increased milk production efficiency
     [001231     Some embodiments produce an estimate of an increase in milk production
 5   efficiency that can be obtained by the use of one or more feed supplements. The increase
     in milk production efficiency can be computed, for example, by computing the total
     increased milk production (the sum of the baseline mi     production and the increased milk
     production, and dividing the total increased milk production by the dry matter intake.
     [001241     Increased revenue
10   [00125]     Some embodiments produce an estimate of an amount of increased revenue
     that can be obtained by the use of one or more feed supplements. In some embodiments
     an estimate of the increased revenue is computed as the product of the increased milk
     production and the milk price.
     [001261     Method For Estimating Impact of Feed Supplement on Production of Milk
15   Producing Animal(s)
     [00127]      The present application also includes a method for estimating an increase in
     one or more of milk production and milk production efficiency in a milk producing animal
     provided with animal feed containing one or more feed supplements., comprising
     providing a baseline performance comprising one or more of milk production and milk
20   production efficiency for the milk producing animal; providing a selected amount of one
     or more feed supplements; and calculating with the computing device an increase in one or
     more of milk production and milk production efficiency in the milk producing animal fed
     using the selected amount of the one or more feed supplements relative to the baseline
     performance.
25   [00128]     In embodiments of the present application, a method comprises producing with
     the computing device a change in milk production or feed efficiency for feed augmented
     with one or more feed supplements. In embodiments, the change in milk production or
     feed efficiency comprises calculating an amount of the one or more feed supplements
     needed to obtain increased milk production or increased milk production efficiency.
30   [00129]     The present application provides A method for adjusting a feed composition,
     comprising: a) digesting a feed sample in an in vitro fermentation system for a milk
     producing animal to generate a value for a primary parameter comprising i) a measure of
     microbial protein for the feed sample; or ii) a measure of total digestible nutrients for the
                                                   24

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     feed sample: b) measuring one or more secondary parameters selected front the group
     consisting of animal weight, animal milk production, animal milk protein, animal dry
     matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary protein to generate a value for the one
     or more secondary parameters; c) producing a baseline performance value comprising
 5   milk production efficiency using at least one or more of the values of the primary
     parameters and one or more of the values of the secondary parameters using a computing
     device; d) producing a carbon footprint for the milk producing animal using the baseline
     performance using a computing device; and e) adjusting a component of the feed sample
     to change the baseline performance, the carbon foot print or both,
10   [00130]     In other embodiments, a method for adjusting a feed composition further
     comprises Digesting a feed sample comprising a feed supplement in an in vitro
     fermentation system for a milk producing animal to generate a value for a primary
     parameter comprising a) a measure of microbial protein for the feed sample; or b) a
     measure of total digestible nutrients for the feed sample; Holding a value for one or more
15   of the secondary parameters constant , wherein the secondary parameters selected from the
     group consisting of animal weight, animal milk production, animal milk protein,
     measuring animal dry matter intake, animal milk price, animal dietary protein and
     combinations thereof; producing a supplement performance value comprising milk
     production efficiency using at least one or more of the values of the primary parameters
20   and one or more of the values of the secondary parameters using a computing device;
     producing a supplement carbon footprint for the milk producing animal using the
     supplement performance using a computing device; and comparing the supplement
     performance to the baseline performance and/or comparing the supplement carbon
     footprint to the carbon footprint and selecting the feed supplement that changes milk
25   production efficiency, carbon foot print or both.
     [00131]     Such methods are useful to select a feed composition and/or a feed supplement
     in order to increase feed efficiency, and/or to balance any increase in feed efficiency with
     effects on carbon footprint. The methods may be repeated any number of times using
     different feed compositions and/or different feed supplements or amounts, and the results
30   compared to one another to allow a selection of a feed composition and/or supplement that
     achieves the desired feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise.
     [00132]      Feed Efficiency / Milk Production Efficiency
                                                    25

   WO 2015/103360                                                                PCT/US2014/072931
     [001331     In some embodiments the feed or milk production efficiency can be improved
     by feeding a milk producing animal one or more feed supplements along with an animal
     feed. Some embodiments involve estimating an increase in, or calculating an
     improvement in, feed efficiency or milk production efficiency between the baseline
 5   performance and the supplement performance, The supplement performance refers to the
     an estimate of a performance associated with the milk producing animal when the milk
     producing animal is fed one or more feed supplements along with a selected animal feed.
     [001341     Feed Supplements
     [001351     Feed supplements as used herein refer to components that are added to a feed
10   composition in order to change the characteristics of the feed composition. Feed
     characteristics include but are not limited to, a residual component after digestion,
     microbial protein, total digestible nutrients, nitrogen source, protein source, and neutral
     detergent fiber. Feed supplements can include components that adjust digestibility of feed
     components such as protein, neutral detergent fiber, and non protein nitrogen. Feed
15   supplements include but are not limited to, protein, amino acids, non protein nitrogen
     sources, enzymes, microbial protein, andi microbial derived components. Specific
     examples of feed supplements include DEMPTM, Opigoen@, and FibrozymeTM (all
     available from Alltech, Inc. Nicholasville, KY).
     [001361     Baseline Performance
20   [001371     In embodiments, of the present application a method provides a baseline
     performance comprising one or more of milk production or milk production efficiency as
     described herein. A baseline of milk production for a particular feed sample can be
     determined by calculating the amount of milk produced per unit of feed fed to the animal.
     In embodiments, a baseline performance comprising milk production efficiency is
25   produced using at least one of the primary parameters and one or more secondary
     parameters, wherein the one or more secondary parameters are associated with a measure
     of one or more of animal weight, animal milk production, animal milk protein, animal dry
     matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary protein as described above. Baseline
     performance results can be displayed and/or stored as described herein.
30   [001381     Supplement Performance
     [001391     In embodiments, of the present application a method provides a supplement
     baseline performance comprising one or more of milk production or milk production
     efficiency for a feed composition with at least one added feed supplement as described
                                                     26

   WO 2015/103360                                                              PCT/US2014/072931
     herein. A baseline of milk production for a particular feed sample can be determined by
     calculating the amount of milk produced per unit of feed fed to the animal in the presence
     of one or more supplements. In embodiments, a supplement baseline performance
     comprising milk production efficiency is produced using at least one of the primary
 5   parameters and one or more secondary parameters, wherein the one or more secondary
     parameters are associated with a measure of one or more of animal weight, animal milk
     production, animal milk protein, animal dry matter intake, animal milk price, and animal
     dietary protein as described above.
     [001401      Once a supplement performance is generated, it is compared to a baseline
10   performance for the feed composition without any added feed supplement. The effect of
     the supplement on performance is determined by identifying whether the presence or
     amount of the supplement results in a change from the baseline performance. In
     embodiments, a feed supplement is selected that increases the milk production or milk
     production efficiency. In embodiments, the feed supplement is selected that that increases
15   milk production or milk production efficiency while maintaining or decreasing a carbon
     foot print.
     [001411      Carbon footprint
     [001421      As described above, the systems and methods of the present application
     comprise producing with the computing device a carbon footprint for the milk producing
20   animal using the baseline performance or the supplement performance, In some
     embodiments the carbon footprint is produced or calculated using a carbon footprint
     engine. One suitable example of a carbon footprint engine is the E-C0   2 carbon footprint
     software, also known as the Alltech@ "What-If" Tool available at
     "alltech. eco2proj ect.com" through a cooperative effort of E-CO of Crewe, Cheshire East,
25   UK, and Alhech of Nicholasville, KY, US. In some embodiments the carbon footprint
     includes an estimated amount of greenhouse gas emissions that would be generated by one
     or more milk producing animals over a period of time. In some embodiments the estimate
     is a weight of the emissions over a period of time, and in other embodiments the estimate
     is a weight of the emissions per unit weight of milk producing animal over a period of
30   time (such as kg C02 / kg weight). In some embodiments the carbon footprint includes
     other aspects in addition to greenhouse gas emissions.
     [001431      In embodiments, as described above, milk production or milk production
     efficiency can be determined for a plurality of animals and a carbon foot print for the
                                                  27i

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     plurality of animals can be aggregated to provide an aggregated carbon footprint for feed
     samples with or without a supplement.
     [00144]     In some embodiments of the present application, the carbon footprint is
     displayed as a function of feed parameters to provide a feed parameter-carbon footprint
 5   compromise in the presence or absence of a feed supplement. A feed parameter-carbon
     footprint compromise is useful for selecting a feed composition or adjusting a feed
     composition in order to balance feed parameters with a desired carbon footprint. Feed
     parameters include one or more qualities or characteristics associated with an animal feed
     sample. One example of a feed parameter is a cost of the feed or feed component, such as
10   a cost of the feed per unit weight or per unit volume. Another example of a feed
     parameter is the feed efficiency or milk production efficiency. Similarly, some
     embodinents include carbon footprint parameters. Carbon footprint parameters incliude
     one or more characteristics of a carbon footprint. One example of a carbon footprint
     parameter is a cost associated with the carbon footprint, such as a cost per unit weight. In
15   embodiments, the carbon footprint associated with the supplement performance is
     compared to that of the baseline performance and the feed supplement is selected that
     adjusts the characteristic of a carbon footprint parameter.
     [00145]     In some cases, a more expensive animal feed may provide a reduced carbon
     footprint than a less expensive feed. As a result, the feed parameters and the carbon
20   footprint parameters can be used to provide or calculate an optimal feed parameter-carbon
     footprint comprise. In some embodiments the optimal value is the value that has the
     lowest cost feed to achieve a reduced carbon footprint as compared to a reference feed
     sample or other feed composition under consideration, for example, a feed composition
     having a feed supplement.
25   [00146]     Implementation and display using one or more computing devices
     [001471     Some embodiments are implemented or include at least one processing device
     and at least one computer readable storage device. Computer readable storage devices
     store data instructions that, when executed by the at least one processing device cause the
     at least one processing device to implement the methods as described herein.
30   [00148]      In embodiments, a computer readable storage device contains data instructions
     that, when executed by the at least one processing device cause the at least one processing
     device to generate :a baseline performance engine configured to receive one or more
     primary parameters associated with one or more of a measure of microbial protein and a
                                                    28

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     measure of total digestible nutrients, and to produce a baseline performance comprising
     one or more of milk production and milk production efficiency using at least one of the
     primary parametersand one or more secondary parameters, wherein the one or more
     secondary parameters are associated with a measure of one or more of animal weight,
 5   animal milk production, animal milk protein, animal dry matter intake, animal milk price,
     and animal dietary protein; and a carbon footprint engine configured to use the baseline
     performance to produce a carbon footprint for the animal. In other embodiments, a carbon
     foot print is generated for a plurality of animals and aggregated as described herein.
     [001491      In embodiments, a computer readable storage device contains data instructions
10   that, when executed by the at least one processing device cause the at least one processing
     device to a method for estimating an increase in one or more of milk production and milk
     production efficiency in a milk producing animal provided with animal feed containing
     one or more feed supplements, comprising providing a baseline performance comprising
     one or more of milk production and milk production efficiency for the milk producing
15   animal; providing a selected amount of one or more feed supplements; and calculating
     with the computing device an increase in one or more of milk production and milk
     production efficiency in the milk producing animal fed using the selected amount of the
     one or more feed supplements relative to the baseline performance. A baseline
     performance engine configured to receive one or more primary parameters associated with
20   one or more of a measure of microbial protein and a measure of total digestible nutrients,
     and to produce a baseline performance comprising one or more of milk production and
     milk production efficiency using at least one of the primary parameters and one or more
     secondary parameters, wherein the one or more secondary parameters are associated with
     a measure of one or more of animal weight, animal milk production, animal milk protein,
25   animal dry matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary protein in the presence of
     one or more feed supplements(supplement performance) and/or absence of the one or
     more feed supplements(baseline performance); and a carbon footprint engine configured
     to use the baseline and/or supplement performance to produce a carbon footprint for the
     animal. In other embodiments, a carbon foot print is generated for a plurality of animals
30   and aggregated as described herein.
     [001501      An example of a processing device is a central processing unit. A wide variety
     of other processing devices can also be used in other embodiments, such as a
     microprocessor, or other device capable of processing data instructions. Some
                                                    29

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     embodiments include multiple processing devices. The multiple processing devices can
     be part of a common device, or parts of separate devices. In some embodiments the
     processing devices include or are in data communication with a data communication
     device, which permit data communication between the processing devices. In some
 5   embodiments the processing devices can communicate with each other across one or more
     networks, such as the Internet, a cellular communication network, a local area network, or
     other communication network that supports data communication.
     [00151]      Some embodiments include one or more computer readable storage devices
     storing data instructions that, when executed by the at least one processing device cause
10   the at least one processing device to perform one or more of the methods, operations, or
     functions disclosed herein. The computer readable storage device is a physical, tangible
     device. A computer readable storage device is or includes a non-transitory computer
     readable medium.
     [00152]      In some embodiments a processing device is, or is a part of, a computing
15   device. An example of a computing device is a computer, such as a server, a desktop
     computer, a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a smartphone, and a wearable computing
     device. In sonic embodiments a computer readable storage device is part of the computing
     device, while in other embodiments it is separate from the computing device.
     [001531      Some embodiments include a first processing device and a second processing
20   device, wherein the first processing device is part of a first computing device and the
     second processing device is part of a second computing device. In some embodiments the
     first and second computing devices are local and in other embodiments the first and
     second computing devices are remote. Some embodiments include three or more
     computing devices. In some embodiments the first processing device operates to produce
25   the baseline performance and the second processing device operates to produce the carbon
     footprint, as described herein.
     [001541      Some embodiments further include a display device. In some embodiments the
     display device is part of or in data communication with a processing device. The display
     device can be a display device connected with a computing device, or may be a remote
30   display device connected to another computing device.
     [001551      The Drawings
     [00156]      FIG   1 is a schematic block diagram illustrating an example system 100 for
     estimating the impact of a milk producing animal on carbon footprint. In this example the
                                                   30

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     system includes a feed sample evaluation engine 102, a baseline perfonnance engine 104,
     and a carbon footprint engine 106. In some embodiments the system also involves a feed
     sample 101, primary parameters 103, secondary parameters 105, a baseline performance
      107, and a carbon footprint 109.
 5   [001571     In some embodiments the feed sample evaluation engine 102 receives a feed
     sample 101 or data or information related to a feed sample. Examples of the feed sample
     evaluation engine 102 include a digestion model. In another example, the feed sample
     evaluation engine 102 operates to evaluate an amount or a percent of one or more
     components in the selected feed sample 201, such as based on the information related to
10   the feed sample.
     [00158]     The feed sample evaluation engine 102 generates one or more primary
     parameters 103 for the selected feed sample 101.
     [001591     The baseline performance engine 104 utilizes the one or more primary and
     secondary parameters 103 and 105 to produce the baseline performance 107. In some
15   embodiments the baseline performance engine 104 executes a set of data instructions to
     perform one or more computations of the primary and secondary parameters 103 and 105
     to compute one or more baseline performance 107 values.
     [00160]     The baseline performance 107 is provided to the carbon footprint engine 106,
     which operates to produce a carbon footprint 209 for one or more milk producing animals.
20   [001611     In some embodiments the baseline performance 107 and/or the carbon footprint
      109 are used to adjust the selected feed sample 101, and the process is repeated to
     determine a baseline performance 107 and a carbon footprint for the adjusted selected feed
     sample 101.
     [00162]     In some embodiments the selection of the feed sample is automated by a
25   computing device to determine an optimal feed parameter- carbon footprint compromise
     based on the baseline performance 107 and/or the carbon footprint 109.
     [001631     FIG, 2 is a schematic block diagram illustrating an example system 200 for
     estimating the impact of a feed supplement on production and/or carbon footprint of a
     milk producing animal. In this example the system includes a feed sample evaluation
30   engine 202, a baseline performance and supplement performance engine 204, and a carbon
     footprint engine 206. In some embodiments the system also involves a feed sample 201,
     primary parameters 203, secondary parameters 205, a baseline performance 207, a carbon
     footprint 2.09, and an optional feed supplement 211.
                                                   31

   WO 2015/103360                                                             PCT/US2014/072931
     [00164]     In some embodiments the feed sample evaluation engine 2.02 receives a feed
     sample 201 or data or infonnation related to a feed sample. In some embodiments the
     selected feed sample 201 also includes an optional feed supplement 211. Examples of the
     feed sample evaluation engine 202 include a digestion model. In another example, the
 5   feed sample evaluation engine 202 operates to evaluate an amount or a percent of one or
     more components in the selected feed sample 201 and the feed supplement 211, such as
     based on the information related to the feed sample.
     [00165]     The feed sample evaluation engine 20:2 generates one or more primary
     parameters 203 for the selected feed sample 201 and for the selected feed sample with the
10   feed supplement 211.
     [00166]     The baseline performance and supplement performance engine 204 utilizes the
     one or more primary and secondary parameters 203 and 205 to produce the baseline
     performance or supplement performance 207. The baseline performance involves the
     performance without the optional feed supplement 2 11, while the supplement performance
15   involves the performance with the optional feed supplement 211. In some embodiments
     the baseline performance engine 204 executes data instructions, such as with one or more
     processing devices, to perform one or more computations of the primary and secondary
     parameters 203 and 205 to compute one or more baseline performance and supplement
     performance 207 values.
20   [001671     The impact of a feed supplement on production can be determined by
     comparing the baseline performance with the supplement performance.
     [00168]     The baseline and supplement performance 207 is provided to the carbon
     footprint engine 206, which operates to produce a carbon footprint 209 for one or more
      nilk producing animals based on either or both of the baseline performance or the
25   supplement performance 207.
     [00169]     In some embodiments the baseline performance 207 and/or the carbon footprint
     209 are used to adjust the selected feed sample 201 and/or the optional feed supplement
     211, and the process is repeated to determine a baseline performance 207 and a carbon
     footprint for the adjusted selected feed sample 201 and optional feed supplement 211.
30   [00170]     In some embodiments the selection of the feed sample is automated by a
     computing device to determine an optimal feed parameter-carbon footprint compromise
     based on the baseline performance 207 and/or the carbon footprint 209.
                                                  32

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     [00171]     FIG. 3 is a screen shot illustrating an example user interface display 300
     according to the present disclosure. In sone embodiments, the user interface display 300
     is generated by the baseline performance engine 104, shown in FIG. 1. In other
     embodiments, the user interface display 300 is a display generated by the baseline and
 5   supplement performance engine 204, shown in FIG. 2.
     [001721     In the illustrated example, the display 300 includes a primary parameters
     section 302, a secondary parameters section 304, a feed supplements section 306, a
     supplement effect section 308, a routing effect section 310, and a protein data section 312.
     [00173]     In some embodiments the primary parameters section 302 displays one or more
10   primary parameters received from another source, such as from a digestion model. In
     another possible embodiment, the primary parameters section 302 is an input section into
     which a user can enter one or more primary parameters. In this examples, the primary
     parameters include a measure of microbial protein for a selected feed sample from a
     digestion model associated with the milk producing animal, a measure of total digestible
15   nutrients for the selected feed sample from the digestion model associated with the milk
     producing animal, and an amount or a percent of components in the selected feed sample.
     [001741     The secondary parameters section 304 is provided in some embodiments to
     display one or more secondary parameters, such as received from another source. In other
     embodiments, the secondary parameters section 304 is an input section into which a user
20   can enter one or more secondary parameters. In this example, the secondary parameters
     section includes input fields into which one or more secondary parameters can be
     provided, such as animal weight (kg), milk production (L), milk protein (%), dry matter
     intake (kg), milk price (S/L), and dietary protein (%).
     [00175]     The feed supplements section 306 is provided in some embodiments to permit
25   the selection of one or more feed supplements. In this example the user interface display
     300 includes three selectable and/or adjustable controls that the user can manipulate to
     adjust the amounts of one or more feed supplements to be included in the animal feed. In
     this example the feed supplements are DempTM, Optigen@, and FibrozymeTM, for
     example. Other embodiments include other feed supplements. In this example the
30   DempT't feed supplement is selected for inclusion in the feed, and the Optigeno and
     FibrozymeT' feed supplements are not included.
                                                    33

   WO 2015/103360                                                               PCT/US2014/072931
     [00176]      Some embodiments include a supplement effect section 308. In some
     embodiments the supplement effect section graphically displays an effect that the
     supplement has on the milk production and/or feed efficiency.
     [001771      In the illustrated example, the supplement effect section 308 includes a milk
 5   production display 320, a feed efficiency display 322, an increased milk production
     display 324, a total milk production display 326, an improved feed efficiency display 328,
     and an additional revenue display 330.
     [00178]      The milk production display 320 displays a baseline milk production (35
     liters), and also includes the feed efficiency display 322 that shows a baseline feed
10   efficiency (1.59), in this example.
     [00179]      The supplement effect display 324 displays the increased milk production (3.8
     liters / day) obtained through the use of the one or more selected feed supplements, such as
     the Demp TM feed supplement in this example.
     [00180]      The total milk production display 326 displays the total milk production (38.8
15   liters / dav, and also includes the improved feed efficiency display 328 that displays the
     improved feed efficiency (1.76) achieved through the inclusion of one or more of the feed
     supplements, for example.
     [00181]      The additional revenue display 330 shows an increased revenue ($1.07)
     obtained through the use of the one or more feed supplements.
20   [001821      In some embodiments the displays 320, 324, 326, and 328 include circular
     meter displays, having the appearance of a speedometer, that allow the associated
     information to be quickly and easily understood by the user viewing the displays. In some
     embodiments the displays 322 and 328 are displayed within the displays 320 and 326,
     respectively.
25   [00183]      As discussed herein, some embodiments include a routing mode of operation.
     As one example, the routing mode can be selectively turned on or off using the "routing"
     control within the secondary parameters section 304. During the routing mode of
     operation, the milk production can be fixed at a desired level, while the dry matter intake
     (kg), and/or the dietary protein (%) are adjusted based on the inclusion of one or more
30   supplements. The results are displayed in the routing effect section 310. In this example,
     the routing effect section 310 includes a required dietary protein (%) display and a protein
     savings (%) display. When one or more feed supplements are included, the required
     dietary protein (%) shows the reduced dietary protein of the feed that can be used while
                                                    34

   WO 2015/103360                                                                PCT/US2014/072931
     continuing to provide the milk producing animal with the appropriate metabolizable
     protein. The protein savings display shows the difference between the baseline required
     dietary protein (%) and the improved required dietary protein (%).
     [001841      The protein data display 3 12 displays other protein-related data, such as the
 5   amount of protein supplied to the milk producing animal by the inclusion of the one or
     more feed supplements, the escape protein with the feed supplement, the escape protein
     without the feed supplements, and the NRC metabolizable protein required by the milk
     producing animal.
     [001851      The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration
10   only and should not be construed to limit the claims attached hereto. Those skilled in the
     art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made without
     following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein, and
     without departing from the true spirit and scope of the following claims.
                                                    35

  WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. A method for adjusting a feed composition, comprising:
      a) digesting a feed sample in an in vitro fermentation system for a milk producing
      animal to generate a value for a primary parameter comprising a i) a measure of
      microbial protein for the feed sample; or ii) a measure of total digestible nutrients
      for the feed sample;
      b) measuring one or more secondary parameters selected from the group consisting
      of animal weight, animal milk production,       animal milk protein, animal dry
      matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary protein to generate a value for
      the one or more secondary parameters;
      c) producing a baseline performance value comprising milk production efficiency
      using at least one or more of the values of the primary parameters and one or more
      of the values of the secondary parameters using a computing device;
       d) producing a carbon footprint for the milk producing animal using the baseline
      performance using a computing device; and
      e) adjusting a component of the feed sample to change the baseline performance,
      the carbon foot print or both.
  2.  A method for adjusting a feed composition, comprising:
      a) determining a characteristic of a first feed sample to generate a value for a
      primary parameter;
      b) measuring one or more secondary parameters selected from the group consisting
      of animal weight, animal milk production,       animal milk protein, animal dry
      matter intake, animal milk price, and animal dietary protein to generate a value
      for the one or more secondary parameters;
      c) producing a baseline performance value comprising milk production efficiency
      using the value of the primary parameter and one or more of the values of the
5     secondary parameters using a computing device;
       d) producing a carbon footprint for the milk producing animal using the baseline
      performance using a computing device; and
      e) adjusting a component of the first feed sample to change either the baseline
      performance, the carbon foot print or both.

3.       The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the steps are repeated until a feed
composition is identified that maintains or increases milk production efficiency and
decreases carbon footprint as compared to the first feed sample.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the in vitro digestion system comprises digesting
the feed sample with one or more digestive enzymes in the presence of a microbial
population.
5.       The method of claim 2, wherein the characteristic of the feed sample is selected
from the group consisting of a measure of protein, a measure of carbohydrate, a measure
of fat, a measure of dry matter, and a measure of gross energy.
6.       The method of claim 2, wherein the step of determining the characteristic of the
feed sample comprises measuring a characteristic of the feed sample.
7.       The method of claim 2, wherein the step of determining the characteristic of the
feed sample comprises calculating a characteristic of the feed sample.
8.       The method of claim 6, wherein the characteristic of the feed sample is determined
by a chemical method or by near infrared spectroscopy.
9.       The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein adjusting a component of the feed
sample comprises adding a feed supplement to the feed sample.
 10.     The method of claim 9, wherein adjusting a component of the feed sample
comprises altering the form of protein or amount of protein in the sample.
 11.     The method of claim 9 or claim 10, wherein adjusting a component of the feed
sample comprises altering the digestibility of the feed sample.
 12.     The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the step of producing a baseline
performance comprises calculating a baseline performance.

13.    The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the step of producing a carbon footprint
comprises calculating a carbon footprint.
14.    The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the step of producing a baseline
performance comprises measuring a baseline performance.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
