                                                13
ABSTRACT
A hair follicle extraction instrument for the extraction of hair follicles from one part of a body
for transfer to another; the extraction instrument comprising an elongate body; the elongate
body including a single piece, circumferentially closed cutting tip extending from an open
cut-out portion which extends from a handle portion.

                                                       1
  FOLLICLE EXTRACTING INSTRUMENT AND METHOD
  TECHNICAL FIELD
  [0001]       The present invention relates to cosmetic procedures and, more particularly to the
  amelioration of scapular hair loss.
  BACKGROUND
  [0002]       Hair loss from the scalps of men can have a serious depressive effect on some males and
 have driven them to seek remedies ranging from the application of spurious preparations and
 devices, to invasive surgical procedures.
  [0003]       Successful recovery of hair involves the replacement of hair follicles to the area of hair
 loss. Some known methods, now largely abandoned, included the "harvesting" of clumps of hair
 and hair follicles in the so-called "punch" method, from either other parts of the scalp or of the
 body. This method which includes the removal of an approximately 10mm patch of skin and hair
 follicles for insertion into the balding area, was attended with considerable damage to some of the
 follicles harvested as well as to the harvested area and lead to a patchy and unsightly scarred donor
 area.
 [0004]       Another method still in use today involves the cutting of a strip of flesh, some 15 to
 20cm in length and 10 to 30mm in width, from the back of the head "donor" area, containing hair
follicles. This strip of flesh is then processed into blocks and individual follicles removed by a
 straight blade for subsequent implanting into the bald area of the scalp. Frequently this very
invasive surgical procedure left permanent and significant scarring. A large percentage of follicles
are also destroyed in this process.
 [0005]       A radically different technique involves the removal and implantation of individual
donor follicles, so-called follicle unit extraction (FUE). A considerable variety of techniques and
instrumentation have been developed and are employed in this method of transplantation. Although
a great improvement over the methods described above, there are numerous disadvantages and
unwanted side effects in the techniques commonly used. These are associated with the use of drills,
robots and mechanised implanting devices. Although less invasive than strip or punch surgical
procedures, they lead to considerable damage to follicles and to unnatural appearance of the
implanted hair region.

                                                        2
  [0006]       US2004/0092924 (Patent 924) describes a transplantation device to harvest and plant
 hair follicles with a common instrument. The device comprises a handle, holder stopper and
 transplanter. Patent 924 discloses a method of extracting a hair follicle which requires the device to
 be inserted into the skin at an angle and depth parallel to the hair roots. The device is.then pulled
 out and reinserted in the same methodology into the skin repeatedly until a complete cut encircling
 the hair follicle is made. One significant drawback of the device is its inflexibility and the absence
 of a depth gauge to indicate the depth of penetration into the skin. The cutting component is also an
 open ended wedged-shaped tip whereby the process of securing or capturing the hair follicle may be
 less efficient in that it requires multiple insertions to extract a single follicle. Another drawback of
 the method and apparatus particularly the open ended tip disclosed in Patent 924 is the need to
 insert and pull out the device repeatedly until a circumference is made around the hair follicle so
 that it can be extracted. At least some embodiments of the current invention are different in both the
 structure of the device and the methodology involved to extract the hair follicle.
 [0007]        US2006/0161179 (Patent 179) describes a multi-component hair transplantation device
to extract and implant hair follicles. The multi-component device comprises of an inner blunt
tubular guide to locate a hair follicle bulb and an outer tubular member to extract the hair follicle.
One methodology disclosed in Patent 179 to extract a hair follicle is to insert the inner blunt tubular
guide into the dermis to locate the hair follicle bulb, slide the outer tubular member over the inner
tubular member, expand the pore surrounding the follicle using the dilating portion in the outer
tubular member and cut surrounding dernal tissue to extract the hair follicle bulb. One of the
drawbacks of the device in Patent 179 is the need to have multiple components to form the device to
extract the hair follicles. A further drawback is in the methodology where the method to extract the
hair follicle is complicated and time inefficient. At least some embodiments of the present invention
the subject of this patent application address or ameliorate those drawbacks in one form by
presenting a single piece device which can extract the hair follicle in a swift and easy manner. At
least some embodiments of the present invention may also have the added benefit of flexibility in its
cutting tip to extract hair follicles easily.
[0008]        It is an object of the present invention to address or at least ameliorate some of the
above disadvantages.

                                                    3
Notes
[0009]      The term "comprising" (and grammatical variations thereof) is used in this specification
in the inclusive sense of "having" or "including", and not in the exclusive sense of "consisting only
of'.
[00010]      The above discussion of the prior art in the Background of the invention, is not an
admission that any information discussed therein is citable prior art or part of the common general
knowledge of persons skilled in the art in any country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
Definitions:
[00011]      Circumferentially closed: circumferentially closed means closed about a longitudinal
axis.
[00012]      Accordingly in one broad form of the invention there is provided a hair follicle
extraction instrument for the extraction of hair follicles from one part of a body to another; the
extraction instrument comprising an elongate body; the elongate body including a single piece,
circumferentially closed cutting tip extending from an open flexible cut-out portion which extends
from a handle portion.
[00013]     Preferably the cutting tip provides a depth guide for penetration through the epidermis,
dermis and at least a portion of the hypodermis.
[00014]     Preferably the cutting tip is formed as a tube extending from a generally tubular body.
[00015]     Preferably the cutting tip is formed as a tapering section extending from the generally
tubular body.
[00016]     Preferably in the unitary closed cutting tip is integral with the cut-out portion.

                                                      4
[00017]      Preferably a profile of a sharp cutting edge of the cutting tip conforms to a portion of a
notional cylindrical surface; a longitudinal axis of the notional cylindrical surface disposed
transversely to a longitudinal axis of the generally tubular body.
[00018]      Preferably an internal diameter of the generally tubular body is such that an intersection
of an internal surface of the generally tubular body with an external surface of the tapering section
of the cutting tip forms a sharp cutting edge.
[00019]      Preferably a length of the cutting tip is approximately equal to a depth of combined
layers of the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis sufficient to allow release of the follicle.
[00020]      Preferably the cut-out portion extends between the cutting tip and the handle portion; the
cut-out portion leaving a portion of the follicle extending between the cutting tip and the cut-out
portion.
 [00021]     Preferably the thickness of the material of the cut-out portion is in the range of 0.05 to
0.09 mm, preferably 0.067 mm.
 [00022]     Preferably the thickness of the material of the cutting tip is in the range of 0.05 to 0.09
mm, preferably 0.067 mm.
 [00023]     Preferably the instrument is formed of surgical steel.
 [00024]     Preferably the length of the cutting tip is in a range of 0.5mm to 4mm.
 [00025]     Preferably the length of the cutting tip is in a range of 0.5mm to 3mm.
 [00026]     Preferably the length of the cutting tip is in a range of 0.6mm to 1mm.
 [00027]     Preferably the length of the cutting tip is in a range of 0.6mm to 2mm.
 [00028]     Preferably the external diameter of the generally tubular body is in a range of 1.0mm to
 1.2mm.
 [00029]     Accordingly in a further broad form of the invention there is provided a method of
releasing a single hair follicle from the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis of a body; the method

                                                     5
including applying an instrument to the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis; the instrument having a
body comprising a tubular cutting tip extending from a flexible cut-out region; the method including
the steps of:
            1. threading a hair of the follicle into the generally tubular body,
            2. inserting the cutting tip into the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis to a depth
                indicated by a length of the cutting tip thereby allowing follicle to follow a path of
                least resistance into the cut-out region,
            3. removing the hair and the follicle by extraction,
            4. extracting the cutting tip from the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis.
[00030]     Preferably the body further includes a handle portion.
[00031]     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00032]     Embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein:
[00033]     Figure 1 is a side view of a follicle hair removal instrument according to one preferred
embodiment of the invention,
 [00034]    Figure 2 is a front view of the instrument of Figure 1,
 [00035]     Figure 3 is a perspective view of the instrument of Figures 1 and 2,
 [00036]     Figure 4 is a front view of a further embodiment of a follicle hair removal instrument
according to the invention,
 [00037]     Figure 5 is a side view of the instrument of Figure 4,
 [00038]     Figure 6 is a perspective view of the instrument of Figures 4 and 5,
 [00039]     Figure 7 is a sectioned side view of the instrument of Figures I to 3 in use.

                                                         6
   DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
  First Preferred Embodiment
   [00040]      With reference to Figure 1 to 3, a follicle unit extraction instrument 10 for the
  transplant of hair follicles from one part of a body to another, is comprised of a generally tubular
  closed body 12 which includes a cutting tip 14, a cut-out portion 16 and a handle portion 18. It
  should be appreciated that the views presented in the accompanying drawings are greatly enlarged.
  Thus the outer diameter of the generally tubular body is of the order of less than one millimetre, so
  that the instrument can be applied to a single follicle.
  [00041]      As can be seen in each of the drawings, the cutting tip 14 is formed as a tubular,
 tapering section extending from the cut-out portion 16. The opening 20 at the end of the cutting tip
  14 forms a sharp edge, and, as best seen in the side views of Figure 1, conforms to a portion of a
 notional cylindrical surface (not shown) with a longitudinal axis of the cylindrical surface disposed
 transversely to a longitudinal axis of the generally tubular closed body 12.
 [00042]       The internal diameter of the generally tubular closed body 12 is such that an intersection
 of the internal surface 22 of the generally tubular body with the external surface of the tapering
 section of the cutting tip 14, forms the sharp cutting edge.
 [00043]      As best seen in the side view of figure 1 the cutting tip is profiled so as to be concave in
transverse/side section view and convex in top/plan view (figure 2).
 [00044]      In use this profile assists in cutting through elastin and collagen fibres which tend to be
randomly located around a follicle.
[00045]       In use the tip, when twisted about the longitudinal axis of the follicle allows cutting of
connective tissue whilst avoiding the follicle itself. The structure also assists while the upper
portion of the follicle is being released into and through the opening in the cutting tip and extending
into view in the cut-out portion.
[00046]      In one form the cut-out portion is formed as a portion of the tubular body by removing a
significant portion of the walls of the tubular body leaving a scalloped edge aligned longitudinally.

                                                        7
   [00047]      More particularly in one form the cut-out portion is formed as a portion of the tubular
   body by removing a significant portion of the walls of the tubular body as illustrated in the side
   section view of figure 1 leaving a scalloped edge aligned longitudinally which is to say in this
  instance a concave trough-liked edge aligned longitudinally.
   [00048]      The length of the cutting tip 12 is approximately equal to a depth of at least the
  combined layers of the epidermis and dermis and a selected portion of the hypodermis (see Figure
  7) and thus acts as an indicator of depth to which the cutting tip needs to be inserted to release a
  follicle from the dermal layers. The extent to which the cutting tip needs to extend into the
  hypodermis will vary from patient to patient. Typically where the skin structures are lean there will
  be little need to extend into the hypodermis in order to obtain release of the follicle.
  The cut-out portion 14 extends between the cutting tip 12 and the handle portion 18, leaving a
 channel shaped portion of a semi-cylindrical wall structure 24 extending between the cutting tip and
 the handle portion. In preferred forms this semi-cylindrical wall structure 24 is flexible. The cut-out
 portion allows an operator of the device to view the entry of the cutting tip into the skin layers and
 observe the release and protrusion of the follicle into the cut-out portion 16.
 [00049]        With reference to Fig 3A there is shown a cross section of the cutting tip 14 showing a
 first preferred blade profile.
 [00050]       With reference to Fig 3B there is shown a cross section of the cutting tip 14 showing a
second preferred blade profile where, in this instance, the leading edge of the blade is flared
outwardly from the longitudinal axis of the instrument.
[00051]        In a particular preferred form the instrument 10 is made of surgical steel with
dimensions:
[00052]       The cross section of the cut-out portion is in the range of 0.05 to 0.09 mm, preferably
0.067 mm.
[00053]       The cross-section of the cutting tip is in the range of 0.05 to 0.09 mm, preferably 0.067
mm

                                                       8
  Second Preferred Embodiment
  [00054]      In this second preferred embodiment with reference now to Figures 4 to 6 the follicle
  unit extraction instrument 100 is again comprised of a generally tubular body 112, a cutting tip 114,
  a handle portion 118 and a cut-out section 116 extending between the cutting tip and the handle
  portion.
  [00055]      In this embodiment it will be noticed that the cutting tip length is longer than that of the
  cutting tip of the first embodiment above, and is provided for use in those cases in which the
 thickness of the dermal layers is thicker than normal or the follicles are exceptionally deep (e.g.
  Certain areas of the abdomen) and such as may be the case with an obese person.
  [00056]     It will also be noticed that in this embodiment for the same reason, that the semi
 cylindrical wall 124 of the cut-out portion 116 remains just as flexible as for the first embodiment.
 The cut out portion 16 defines a channel like portion as best seen in the perspective view of figure 3
 and figure 6.
 [00057]      It will be understood that the device can be provided in a number of configurations in
 which the cutting tip length, the arrangement of the cut-out section and the wall thickness as well as
 the dimensions may be varied to suit a range of operating conditions.
 [00058]      Preferably, the length of the cutting tip 14/114 lies in the range of 0.6 to 2.2mm, with
 the external diameter of the generally tubular body 12/112 in a range of 1.0mm to 1.2mm.
In Use
 [00059]      Figure 7 illustrates how a unit follicle extraction unit 10 according to the invention is
used to extract a follicle 26 from the dermis 28 and hypodermis 30 layers.
 [00060]      The tool is finely structured and profiled whereby the cutting tip 14 will tend to follow
the path of least resistance. With experience and care a surgeon can feel this behaviour and take
advantage of it to minimise the risk of cutting into the hair.
 [00061]      The steps of operation can include:
 1 apply the opening 20 of the cutting tip 14 to the epidermis and so that the opening 20 circles a
target hair.

                                                     9
 2 twist the tool whereby the cutting edge of the cutting tip makes a circular incision into the
 epidermis.
 3 continue the twisting action such that the cutting tip 14 moves further into the epidermis and then
dermis, all the while seeking to encircle but not cut the hair and its surrounding structure
4. typically the hair will be substantially released from the surrounding epidermis and dermis
structure once the cutting tip has cut through the epidermis and dermis tissue surrounding the hair
follicle 26. Typically there is no need to cut further into the hypodermis.

                                                    10
CLAIMS
1.    A hair follicle extraction instrument for the extraction of hair follicles from one part of a body
to another; the extraction instrument comprising an elongate body; the elongate body including a
single piece, circumferentially closed cutting tip extending from an open flexible cut-out portion
which extends from a handle portion.
2.    The instrument of claim 1 wherein the cutting tip provides a depth guide for penetration
through the epidermis, dermis and at least a portion of the hypodermis.
3.    The instrument of claim 1 or 2 wherein the cutting tip is formed as a tube extending from a
generally tubular body.
4.    The instrument of claim 1 or 2 or 3 wherein the cutting tip is formed as a tapering section
extending from the generally tubular body.
5.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the unitary closed cutting tip is integral with
the cut-out portion.
6.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein a profile of a sharp cutting edge of the cutting
tip conforms to a portion of a notional cylindrical surface; a longitudinal axis of the notional
cylindrical surface disposed transversely to a longitudinal axis of the generally tubular body.
7.    The instrument of claim 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 wherein an internal diameter of the generally tubular
body is such that an intersection of an internal surface of the generally tubular body with an external
surface of the tapering section of the cutting tip forms a sharp cutting edge.
8.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein a length of the cutting tip is approximately
equal to a depth of combined layers of the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis sufficient to allow
release of the follicle.
9.    The instrument of any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein the cut-out portion extends between the
cutting tip and the handle portion; the cut-out portion leaving a portion of the follicle extending
between the cutting tip and the cut-out portion.

                                                      11
10.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the thickness of the material of the cut-out
portion is in the range of 0.05 to 0.09 mm, preferably 0.067 mm.
11.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the thickness of the material of the cutting tip
is in the range of 0.05 to 0.09 mm, preferably 0.067 mm.
12.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the instrument is formed of surgical steel.
13.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the length of the cutting tip is in a range of
0.5mm to 4mm.
14.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the length of the cutting tip is in a range of
0.5mm to 3mm.
15.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the length of the cutting tip is in a range of
0.6mm to 1mm.
16.    The instrument of any previous claim wherein the length of the cutting tip is in a range of
0.6mm to 2mm.
17.    The instrument of any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein the external diameter of the generally
tubular body is in a range of 1.0mm to 1.2mm.
 18.   A method of releasing a single hair follicle from the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis of a
body; the method including applying an instrument to the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis; the
instrument having a body comprising a tubular cutting tip extending from a flexible cut-out region;
the method including the steps of:
                     -   threading a hair of the follicle into the generally tubular body,
                     -   inserting the cutting tip into the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis to a depth
                         indicated by a length of the cutting tip thereby allowing follicle to follow a
                         path of least resistance into the cut-out region,
                     -   removing the hair and the follicle by extraction,
                     -   extracting the cutting tip from the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis.

                                             12
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the body further includes a handle portion.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
