                                               57
                                         ABSTRACT
An implant device is configured to be implanted in a fistula to fluidly connect the lacrimal
apparatus and a paranasal sinus. A surgical tool has an implant the implant device mounted
on a carrier. Various methods involve a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and a
paranasal sinus. A kit includes an entry device for use to form a fistula and an implant tool
for use to implant an implant device following formation of a fistula.

           4/24
CD
CN
   CN
    CN
      CN
      CN         co
                 CD
       CN        CN       d
                          LL
        CD
        CD
        CN
           CN
                CN
                CD
                CN
                       CD
                    co
                    CD CN
                    CN

                                        AUSTRALIA
                                       PatentsAct 1990
                      ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                   STANDARD PATENT
Invention title:     Implant device, tool, and methods relating to treatment of
                     paranasal sinuses
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to us:

                                                  1
                        IMPLANT DEVICE, TOOL, AND METHODS
                 RELATING TO TREATMENT OF PARANASAL SINUSES
[0001]     This application is divided out of Australian patent application No 2015243052.
Australian patent application No 2015243052 is a divided out of Australian patent application
No 2011311833. Australian patent application No 2011311833 is a national phase application
of PCT patent application No PCT/US2011/055456 which claims priority from United States
patent application Nos 61/404,716 (provisional), 61/528,085 (provisional) andl3/225,213.
The entire contents of all these applications are incorporated herein by reference.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The invention relates to treatment of conditions of the paranasal sinuses, including
with respect to implant devices, surgical tools and methods.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]    Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like in this
specification is included solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
invention. It is not suggested or represented that any of these matters formed part of the prior
art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it
existed in Australia or elsewhere before the priority date of each claim of this application.
[0004]     In the United States alone, 35 million people a year are treated for sinus infections,
or sinusitis, and 7 million of those will suffer from chronic sinusitis and will have minimal
response to prescription drug therapies. Current surgical interventions may be expected to, at
best, offer only moderate symptomatic improvement but no cure.
[0005]     Current drug therapies include oral administration as pills and nasal topical
administration, neither of which is conducive to delivering adequate concentration of
medication to the involved paranasal sinus. In addition to medication, frequent sinus
irrigation can be helpful in flushing out debris, irritants and obstructing viscous fluids, but
patients are generally not able to adequately perform this procedure at home.

                                                 2
[0006]     For patients with particularly severe symptoms, surgical drainage may be the only
additional option. An early surgical procedure was the Caldwell-Luc procedure, which
involves creating a permanent fistula from the base of the paranasal sinus into the oral cavity
above the front upper incisors. More recently, other surgical access points to the paranasal
sinuses have been attempted. A variety of endoscopic techniques have been developed that
access the paranasal sinuses through the nose, including functional endoscopic sinus surgery
(FESS) and balloon sinuplasty. All attempt to increase drainage, but utilize different routes or
tools. None of these surgical approaches has achieved wide-spread success, and millions of
chronic sinusitis patients continue to suffer long-term disability and discomfort.
                                  SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0007]     A variety of medical treatments and medical procedures directed to the paranasal
sinuses may be performed through a fistula that may be formed between the lacrimal
apparatus and a paranasal sinus. Such a fistula provides direct access from the lacrimal
apparatus to the paranasal sinus in a minimally invasive manner. Such direct access permits
drugs to be conveniently administered for local treatment in the paranasal sinus, rather than
having to rely on systemic drug treatments. Such direct access permits irrigation fluids to be
conveniently introduced into the paranasal sinus. Such access permits fluids to be
conveniently removed from the paranasal sinus. Such access permits a variety of medical
procedures to be conveniently performed in the paranasal sinus.
[0008]     One aspect of the invention relates to an implant device for implantation in a human
to fluidly connect the lacrimal apparatus to a paranasal sinus through such a fistula. The
implant device has a proximal end and a distal end located at opposite longitudinal ends of
the device. A conduit extends from adjacent the proximal end to adjacent the distal end. An
internal passage extends between the proximal end and the distal end, and including through
the conduit. The internal passage has a first end open at the proximal end of the implant
device and a second end open at the distal end of the implant device. The implant device
includes a length longitudinally along the device between the proximal end and the distal end
that is in a range of from 2 millimeters to 50 millimeters. A width of the internal passage
transverse to the length is in a range of from 0.25 millimeter to 5 millimeters. The implant
device is configured to be implanted to fluidly connect the lacrimal apparatus to the paranasal
sinus through the fistula so that when the implant device is implanted: the proximal end is

                                                  3
disposed with the first end of the internal passage opening in the lacrimal apparatus; the distal
end is disposed in the paranasal sinus with the second end of the internal passage opening in
the paranasal sinus; and the conduit is disposed through the fistula.
[0009]     A number of feature refinements and additional features are applicable to the first
aspect of the invention. These feature refinements and additional features may be used
individually or in any combination. As such, each of the following features may be, but are
not required to be, used within any other feature or combination of features of the first aspect
or any other aspects of the invention.
[0010]     The conduit may be configured so that an exterior of the conduit comprises an
anchoring surface feature which assists to anchor the implant device when the device is
implanted. The anchoring surface feature includes protrusion areas and recess areas. The
implant device may be configured so that when implanted the conduit is disposed through the
fistula with at least a portion of the recess areas disposed within the fistula and with at least a
portion of the protrusion areas disposed in the fistula and engaging tissue exposed within the
fistula to anchor the implant device. The structural and mechanical characteristics of
protrusion occurrences in the protrusion areas may affect anchoring performance of the
protrusion areas. The height of the protrusion areas relative to the recess areas may affect
anchoring effectiveness when the implant device is implanted. A larger height may provide
greater anchor effectiveness, but also may involve a larger overall width of the implant
device that must be inserted into the fistula. The protrusion areas may have a height relative
to the recess areas of at least 0.1 millimeter, at least 0.2 millimeter, at least 0.25 millimeter or
at least 0.3 millimeter. The protrusions areas may have a height relative to the recess areas of
no greater than 2 millimeters, no greater than 1.5 millimeter, no greater than 1 millimeter, no
greater than 0.75 millimeter, no greater than 0.5 millimeter or no greater than 0.4 millimeter.
The height may be of particular protrusion occurrences relative to adjacent areas of recesses.
Protrusion occurrences are also referred to herein as anchor protrusions. Such anchor
protrusions may be configured to flexibly deform when the conduit is inserted through the
fistula for implantation, for example to flexibly deform in a direction opposite the direction of
insertion when the anchor protrusions contact tissue disposed in the fistula during insertion.
After insertion, the anchor protrusions may over time return to their original shape and extend
deeper into adjacent tissue to better anchor the implant device. The mechanical properties of
the anchor protrusions may be influenced by materials of construction. Preferred materials of

                                                  4
construction for the protrusion areas, and also for the portions of the implant device, are
polymeric materials. The polymeric materials may preferably be medical grade materials.
Some preferred polymeric materials are silicones and polyurethanes. For enhanced
performance, the material of construction should have a rigidity that interacts positively with
tissue in the vicinity of the fistula, for example to promote load sharing and good anchoring.
One preferred material of construction is a polymeric material (e.g. silicone or polyurethane)
having a durometer (Shore A) in a range having a lower limit of 50, 60, 70 or 80 and an upper
limit of 100, 80, 70 or 60, provided that the upper limit must be larger than the lower limit.
One preferred range is for a durometer (Shore A) of 60-100, with a range of 80-100 being
even more preferred. For some implementations the polymeric material has a durometer
(Shore A) of about 60, of about 80 or of about 100. Mechanical properties of the protrusion
occurrences of the protrusion areas will also be affected by the geometry of the protrusion
occurrences. The protrusion occurrences may have a width that tapers, or narrows, in a
direction from a base toward a top of the protrusion occurrences, with the base being a
portion of a protrusion occurrence disposed toward the internal passage of the conduit and a
top of the protrusion occurrence being the extremity of the protrusion occurrence away from
the internal passage of the conduit. The width may be transverse to the length of the conduit.
The protrusion occurrences may have a width at the base that is no larger than 2 millimeters,
no larger than 1.5 millimeters, no larger than 1.25 millimeters or no larger than 1 millimeter.
One or more of the protrusion occurrences may have a width at the base that is at least 0.2
millimeter, at least 0.3 millimeter, at least 0.5 millimeter, at least 0.75 millimeter or at least 1
millimeter. The protrusion occurrences may have a width adjacent the top that is no larger
than 0.75 times width at the base, no larger than 0.5 times the width at the base, or no larger
than 0.25 times the width at the base. The protrusion occurrences may have a width midway
between the base and the top that is no larger than 0.8 times the width of the base, no larger
than 0.7 times the width of the base, no larger than 0.6 times the width of the base or no
larger than 0.5 times the width at the base.
[0011]     The protrusion areas may be provided by a single protrusion occurrence feature
located to correspond with the interior of the fistula when the implant device is implanted. In
more preferred implementations, the protrusion areas include multiple protrusion occurrences
spaced on the exterior of the conduit. The protrusion occurrences may have a center-to-center
spacing, in one or more directions, of at least 0.5 millimeter, at least 0.75 millimeter, at least
1 millimeter or at least 1.75 millimeters. The protrusion occurrences may have a center-to-

                                                 5
center spacing of no greater than 2.5 millimeters, no greater than 2 millimeters or no greater
than 1.75 millimeters. The protrusion occurrences may have a center-to-center spacing
longitudinally along the conduit. The protrusion occurrences may have a center-to-center
spacing that is at least 0.5 times the base width of the protrusion occurrences, or at least 1
times the base width of the protrusion occurrences or at least 2 times the base width of the
protrusion occurrences. The protrusion occurrences may have a center-to-center spacing that
is no more than 5 times a base width of the protrusion occurrences, no more than 3 times a
base width of the protrusion occurrences or no more than 2 times a base width of the
protrusion occurrences.
[0012]    The protrusion areas may be located on a longitudinal portion of the conduit that
includes at least a portion of the conduit that will be disposed within a fistula when the
implant device is implanted. The protrusion areas may be on a longitudinal portion of the
conduit that extends for at least 2 millimeters along the length of the implant device, that
extends for at least 3 millimeters along the length of the implant device, that extends for at
least 4 millimeters along the length of the implant device, that extends for at least 5
millimeters along the length of the implant device or that extends for at least 8 millimeters
along the length of the implant device. A longitudinal portion of the conduit including the
protrusion areas may be no longer than 20 millimeters, no longer than 15 millimeters or no
longer than 10 millimeters. A longitudinal portion of the conduit including the protrusion
areas may be disposed at least 2 millimeters from the proximal end of the device, at least 3
millimeters from the proximal end of the device, or at least 4 millimeters from the proximal
end of the device. When the implant device has a head, a longitudinal portion of the conduit
including the protrusions may be disposed at least 1 millimeter, at least 2 millimeters or at
least 3 millimeters from the head. Providing significant distance between the head and
commencement of the protrusion areas permits the head to better "float" on the surface of
tissue, which may enhance patient comfort and device performance. The protrusion areas
may be disposed along a longitudinal portion of the conduit with the protrusion areas
covering no more than 35% of the area along that longitudinal portion of the conduit, no
more than 25% of the area along that longitudinal portion of the conduit or not more than
20% of the area along that longitudinal portion of the conduit. Providing significant spacing
between protrusion occurrences may permit better engagement of tissue by the anchoring
surface feature.

                                                 6
[0013]    The protrusion areas may comprise at least one circumferential ridge. By
circumferential ridge is meant a ridge that extends around an entire circumference of the
conduit. The protrusion area may comprise at least two, at least three or at least five
circumferential ridges. The protrusion areas may comprise a spiral ridge. Such a spiral ridge
may extend along a longitudinal portion of the conduit. The protrusion areas may comprise a
knob or may comprise multiple knobs. The anchoring surface feature may comprise a
textured surface, with the protrusion areas comprising protruding portions of the textured
surface and the recess areas comprising recess portions of the textured surface.
[0014]    The implant device may comprise a distal anchoring or retention feature that will be
disposed in the paranasal sinus when implanted. Such a distal feature may include, for
example, barbs or other features configured to be disposed distal of the fistula and in the
paranasal sinus when the implant device is implanted and to provide a barrier to removal of
the implant device from the fistula by withdrawal from the proximal end of the fistula. Such a
feature may automatically deploy on insertion through the fistula. Such a distal feature may
be used with or without use also of anchor protrusions to engage tissue within the fistula, and
such a distal feature may extend peripherally beyond a peripheral extend of such anchor
protrusions when the implant device also includes such anchor protrusions for engaging
tissue within the fistula.
[0015]    The length of the implant device may be selected within the general range stated
above to provide sufficient conduit length for extending through the entire length of the fistula
plus any extension distance desired in the lacrimal apparatus proximal to the fistula and in the
paranasal sinus distal to the fistula. The length of the conduit may be in a range having a lower
limit of 2 millimeters, 3 millimeters, 4 millimeters, 5 millimeters or 8 millimeters and an upper
limit of 50 millimeters, 40 millimeters, 30 millimeters, 20 millimeters, 15 millimeters or 10
millimeters. One preferred range for some implementations when the fistula is between the
orbit and the ethmoid sinus or the maxillary sinus is for the length of the implant device to be
in a range of from 5 millimeters to 20 millimeters, with a range of from 8 millimeters to 15
millimeters being more preferred. By length of the implant device it is meant the dimension
longitudinally along the device from the proximal end to the distal end, and may be along a
longitudinal axis through the internal passage. The length may be a straight line, for example
when the internal passage is straight, or the length may be curvilinear or some other shape, for
example when the internal passage is not linear. When a reference is made herein to transverse

                                                   7
to the length, the reference is to a right angle to the longitudinal direction of the length at that
point (e.g., right angle to a line of the length or to a line tangent to a curve of the length).
[0016]     The implant device may advantageously be designed with a conduit of appropriate
width dimensions to fit snuggly within a desired size of fistula. The implant device may have
a first exterior width dimension defined by a maximum extent of the protrusion areas
transverse to the length of the device, with the exterior width being within a range having a
lower limit of 0.75 millimeter, 1 millimeter, 1.25 millimeters, 1.5 millimeters, 1.75
millimeters or 2 millimeters and an upper limit of 8 millimeters, 7 millimeters, 6 millimeters,
5 millimeters, 4 millimeters, 3 millimeters, 2 millimeters or 1.75 millimeters, provided of
course that the upper limit must be larger than the lower limit. The conduit may have a
second width dimension defined by the minimum extent of the recess areas transverse to the
length of the device, and which second exterior width dimension will be smaller than the first
exterior width dimension defined by the protrusion areas. The second exterior width
dimension defined by the recess areas may be smaller than the exterior width dimension
defined by the protrusion areas by an amount within a range having a lower limit of 0.2
millimeter, 0.25 millimeter, 0.35 millimeter or 0.5 millimeter and having an upper limit of 1.5
millimeters, 1 millimeter or 0.75 millimeter. The height of the protrusion areas may be one
half the difference between the first exterior width and the second exterior width. Either one
of or each one of the first exterior width and the second exterior width may be the diameter of
a circle.
[0017]     The implant device may comprise a plurality of apertures through a wall of the
conduit to provide fluid communication from outside of the conduit to the internal passage in
the conduit. The apertures may be located on a portion of the conduit designed to be distal to
the fistula and located in a paranasal sinus when the implant device is implanted. Some or all
of the apertures may be located along the length of the device at least 5 millimeters from the
proximal end, at least 8 millimeters end from the proximal end or at least 10 millimeters from
the proximal end. The width of such an aperture may be equal to or may be smaller than a
width of the portion of the internal passage into which the aperture opens.
[0018]     The implant device may include a head adjacent to the conduit at the proximal end
of the implant device. The implant device may be configured so that when the implant device
is implanted, the head is disposed in the lacrimal apparatus, and preferably with the head

                                                  8
located in the orbit. The head may beneficially keep the implant device from migrating
through the fistula toward the paranasal sinus following implantation of the implant device.
The head may comprise a flanged tissue engagement surface on a side of the head disposed
toward the conduit and configured to engage tissue outside of and adjacent to the fistula when
the implant device is implanted. The flanged tissue engagement surface may be a flat surface.
The flanged tissue engagement surface may have non-flat surface features configured to
improve seating of the surface against tissue, such as for example to inhibit rotation of the
implant device within the fistula after implantation. The head may have a face surface
opposite the flanged tissue engagement surface and also disposed away from the conduit and
disposed away from tissue engaged by the flanged tissue engagement surface when the
implant device is implanted. The face surface may be substantially flat. The face surface may
be disposed at the proximal end of the implant device and the internal passage may open at
the face surface. The separation distance between the face surface and the flanged tissue
engagement surface may be in a range having a lower limit of 0.25 millimeter, 0.5 millimeter
or 0.75 millimeter and having an upper limit of 2 millimeters, 1.5 millimeters or 1 millimeter.
Such separation distance need not be constant across the flanged tissue engagement surface
and face surface. A maximum separation distance between the face surface and the flanged
tissue engagement surface may be referred to as the depth of the head, and such depth may be
in a range described above for the separation distance between the face surface and the
flanged tissue engagement surface. The flanged tissue engagement surface need not be
continuous and may be divided into multiple distinct surface portions. For example, the
flanged tissue engagement surface may include a first flanged portion disposed to one side of
the internal passage and a second flanged surface portion disposed to a second side of the
internal passage that is opposite the first side. Each of the face surface and the flanged tissue
engagement surface may have a length dimension that represents a maximum separation
distance between points on an outer edge of the respective surface, and may each have a
width dimension that is a maximum separation distance between points on the outer edge
transverse to the length dimension. The length dimensions of the face surface and the flanged
tissue engagement surface may be the same or may be different. The width dimensions of the
face surface and the flanged tissue engagement surface may be the same or may be different.
The face surface and the flanged tissue engagement surface may have corresponding outer
edges. The length dimension of any or all of the face surface, the flanged tissue engagement
surface and the head may be larger than a first exterior width of the conduit defined by an
extent of the protrusion areas transverse to the length of the implant device, when the implant

                                                  9
device includes an anchoring surface feature such as summarized above. The length
dimension of any or all of the face surface, the tissue engagement surface and the head may
be in a range having a lower limit of 1 millimeter, 2 millimeters, 3 millimeters, 4 millimeters
or 5 millimeters and an upper limit of, 10 millimeters, 8 millimeters or 7 millimeters. The
width dimension of any or all of the face surface, tissue engagement surface and the head
may be in a range having a lower limit of 0.5 millimeter, 1 millimeter, 1.5 millimeters or 2
millimeters and an upper limit of 5 millimeters, 4 millimeters or 3 millimeters. The length
dimension of any or all of the face surface, the flanged tissue engagement surface and the
head may be at least 1 millimeter, at least 2 millimeters, at least 3 millimeters or at least 4
millimeters larger than such first exterior width of the conduit defined by an extent of the
protrusion areas, when the implant device includes an anchoring surface feature such as
summarized above. A ratio of the length of any of or all the face surface, the flanged tissue
engagement surface and the head to such a first exterior width of the conduit may be at least
2. Such a ratio may be smaller than 4. The width of any or all of the face surface, the flanged
tissue engagement surface and the head may be not larger than, or may be smaller than (e.g.,
by at least 0.1 mm or by at least 0.2 mm), such a first exterior width of the conduit defined by
an extent of the protrusion areas, when the implant device includes an anchoring surface
feature such as summarized above. A ratio of the length dimension to the width dimension for
any or all of the face surface, the flanged tissue engagement surface and the head may be in a
range having a lower limit of 1, 1.5, 2 or 2.5 and an upper limit of 5, 4, 3 or 2.5, provided of
course that the upper limit must be larger than the lower limit. Having a larger length
dimension to width dimension on the head is particularly preferred when the head will be
located in the orbit between the lacrimal caruncle and the plica semilunaris, because the
length dimension may advantageously align in a vertical direction next to the eyeball and will
help provide sufficient flanged surface area to effectively anchor the implant device on the
proximal end and impede conjunctival tissue from covering the opening into the internal
passage of the implant device, compensating for the narrower width. This is particularly
advantageous when using polymeric materials of construction as described above.
[0019]    The internal passage may have a substantially uniform shape along the entire length
of the implant device, or may have a varying shape. The internal passage may be
substantially straight from the proximal end of the device to the distal end of the device. The
internal passage may have a cross-section available for flow (transverse to the length of the
device) that is substantially uniform from the proximal end to the distal end of the implant

                                                10
device. The internal passage may have a substantially circular cross-section. The internal
passage may have a substantially elliptical cross-section. The width of the conduit (maximum
dimension across the cross-section of the internal passage available for flow) may be in a
range having a lower limit of 0.25 millimeter, 0.5 millimeter or 0.75 millimeter and 1
millimeter and an upper limit of 5 millimeters, or 4 millimeters or 3 millimeters, 2
millimeters or 1.5 millimeters.
[0020]    The implant device may be configured for implantation with the conduit passing
through a fistula between a location in a lacrimal apparatus within the orbit and a paranasal
sinus selected from the group consisting of a frontal sinus, an ethmoid sinus, a maxillary
sinus and a sphenoid sinus, with a frontal sinus, a maxillary sinus or an ethmoid sinus being
preferred, with an ethmoid sinus or a maxillary sinus being more preferred, and with an
ethmoid sinus being particularly preferred. The implant device may be configured for
implantation with the conduit passing through a fistula between a location in the lacrimal
apparatus within the nasolacrimal duct and a paranasal sinus selected from the group
consisting of an ethmoid sinus and a maxillary sinus. The location within the nasolacrimal
duct may be within the lacrimal sac.
[0021]    The implant device may be disposed within a human body as implanted with the
conduit passing through a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and the paranasal sinus and
with the proximal end located within the lacrimal apparatus and the distal end located within
the paranasal sinus, with a preferred implementation including the distal end located in a
paranasal sinus selected from the group consisting of an ethmoid sinus, the maxillary sinus
and a frontal sinus and the proximal end located in the orbit, and more preferably with the
proximal end disposed between the plica semilunaris and the lacrimal caruncle.
[0022]    The implant device is primarily configured for and described herein with primary
reference to the implant device being implantable in a fistula that may be formed between the
lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal sinus to provide a passage from the lacrimal apparatus to
the paranasal sinus. The implant device is also implantable in a fistula that may be formed
between the lacrimal apparatus (e.g., from the corner of medial portion of the orbit between
the lacrimal caruncle and the plica semilunaris) and the nasal cavity, for example for
enhanced drainage of lacrimal fluid, and such applications directed to the nasal cavity are

                                                    11
within the scope of the different aspects of the invention.
[0023]     In particular, in this first aspect of the invention, there is provided an implant device
for implantation in a human to fluidly connect a location in the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit
to a paranasal sinus through a fistula formed between the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and
the paranasal sinus, the implant device comprising:
         a proximal end at a first longitudinal end of the device to be disposed in the lacrimal
apparatus in the orbit when the implant device is implanted;
         a distal end at a second longitudinal end of the device that is longitudinally opposite
the first longitudinal end to be disposed in the paranasal sinus when the implant device is
implanted;
         a conduit extending from adjacent the proximal end to adjacent the distal end;
         an internal passage extending between the proximal end and the distal end and
through the conduit, the internal passage having a first end open at the proximal end and a
second end open at the distal end;
         a length of the device longitudinally along the device between the proximal end and
the distal end in a range of from 8 millimeters to 50 millimeters;
         a width of the internal passage transverse to the length in a range of from 0.25
millimeter to 5 millimeters; and
         an exterior of the conduit comprising an anchoring surface feature to engage tissue in
the fistula to anchor the implant device when the implant device is implanted, the anchoring
surface feature including recess areas and protrusion areas, wherein the protrusion areas are
disposed only on a longitudinal portion of the conduit with a said protrusion area nearest to
the proximal end of the implant device being disposed at least 4 millimeters from the
proximal end of the implant device.
[0024]     A second aspect of the invention relates to a surgical tool comprising an implant
device and a carrier. The carrier includes a member with a distal tip, and the member is
adapted to be disposed through a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal
cavity with the distal tip located in the paranasal cavity. The carrier also includes a hand
manipulable handle connected to the member. The implant device is mounted on the carrier
between the handle and the distal tip, with the member disposed through the internal passage

                                                   12
and with a proximal end of the implant device disposed toward the handle and a distal end of
the implant device disposed toward the distal tip. The carrier is disengageable from the
implant device for implant placement of the implant device disposed through the fistula.
[0025]    A number of feature refinements and additional features are applicable to the second
aspect of the invention. These feature refinements and additional features may be used
individually or in any combination. As such, each of the following features may be, but are
not required to be, used with any other feature or combination of features of the second
aspect or any other aspects of the invention.
[0026]     The implant device may be an implant device according to the first aspect of the
invention. The implant device may be of a design other than according to the first aspect of
the invention.
[0027]     The distal tip of the member may be a piercing tip configured for piercing tissue to
form a fistula (e.g., a sharp tip). The distal tip of the member may be a blunt tip designed to
enter and advance through a fistula that has already been formed. The carrier may have an
internal passage extending through the handle and the member and through which passage a
guide wire may be passed to help guide the carrier to a location where an implant device is to
be implanted in a fistula.
[0028]     The member may be a solid member with the distal tip being a distal end of the
solid member. The implant device may be mounted on the solid member with the solid
member disposed through an internal passage of the implant device. The solid member may
comprise a trocar or a stylet.
[0029]     The member may be a hollow member. The implant device may be mounted on the
hollow member with the hollow member disposed through an internal passage of the implant
device. The distal tip may comprise a distal end of the hollow member. The hollow member
may be a hollow needle or a cannula. The carrier may comprise a syringe hub in fluid
communication with the hollow interior of the member. The syringe hub may be connected
with a proximal end of the hollow member. The syringe hub may be or comprise a part of the
handle. The syringe hub may be adapted for connecting with a syringe to permit performance
of at least one operation selected from the group consisting of injecting fluid from the syringe

                                                  13
through the hollow member and aspiration of fluid through the hollow member into a syringe.
Such a hub may be configured to make a luer connection with a syringe. The carrier may
comprise another member, which may be a solid member disposed through such a hollow
member. The distal tip of the carrier may comprise a distal end of the solid member. The
solid member may be slidably removable from a proximal end of the hollow member. The
solid member may be disengageable from the hollow member. The solid member may be a
stylet or a trocar. The solid member may have a distal end that is in the form of a blunt tip, or
that together with a distal end of the hollow member may form a blunt tip.
[0030]     The distal end of the member, and the distal tip, may be located at least 0.3
centimeter, at least 0.5 centimeter, at least 0.75 centimeter or at least 1 centimeter from a
distal end of the implant device. The distal end of the member, and the distal tip, may be
located not more than 5 centimeters, not more than 3 centimeters or not more than 2
centimeters from the distal end of the implant device. The distal end of the member, and the
distal tip, may be located at least 0.75 centimeter, at least 1 centimeter or at least 2
centimeters from the proximal end of the implant device. The distal end of the member, and
the distal tip, may be located not more than 7 centimeters, not more than 6 centimeters, not
more than 5 centimeters, not more than 4 centimeters or not more than 3 centimeters from the
proximal end of the implant device.
[0031]     As with the first aspect, so also the surgical tool of the second aspect may be used to
implant an implant device (e.g., of the first aspect) through a fistula between the lacrimal
apparatus and the nasal cavity.
[0032]     In particular, in this second aspect of the invention, there is provided a surgical tool,
comprising:
         an implant device according to the first aspect of the invention;
         a carrier comprising:
         a member with a distal tip, the member adapted to be disposed through a fistula
between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal sinus with the distal tip located in the
paranasal sinus; and
         a hand-manipulable handle connected to the member;
         wherein the implant device is mounted on the carrier between the handle and the distal
tip with the member disposed through the internal passage and with the proximal end of the

                                                 14
implant device disposed toward the handle and the distal end of the implant device disposed
toward the distal tip; and
         wherein the carrier is disengageable from the implant device for implant placement of
the implant device disposed through the fistula.
[0033]     Other aspects of the invention relate to various methods involving a fistula formed
between the lacrimal apparatus of a human and a paranasal sinus. The fistula involved with
any of these methods may be surgically formed by any appropriate technique between a
location in the lacrimal apparatus of a human and a paranasal sinus. The fistula may be
formed by a piercing or cutting instrument, such as for example a needle, cutting cannula,
trocar or stylet. Other example techniques for forming the fistula include drills, lasers, radio
frequency (RF) and ultrasound. The fistula may be formed using a surgical tool of the second
aspect of the invention. The fistula may be formed by any appropriate route connecting a
location in the lacrimal apparatus with the paranasal sinus of interest. The route of the fistula
may be from the orbit to a frontal sinus, an ethmoid sinus or a maxillary sinus. The route may
be subconjuctival from the orbit and through a wall of the frontal, ethmoid or maxilla bone,
as the case may be. The fistula may be between the nasolacrimal duct and either a maxillary
sinus or an ethmoid sinus. The location and the nasolacrimal duct where the fistula is formed
may be in a top part of the nasolacrimal duct known as the lacrimal sac or may be in a
location in the nasolacrimal duct below the lacrimal sac. Although not generally a preferred
route, the fistula may be to the sphenoid sinus, such as subconjunctivally from the orbit and
through a wall of the sphenoid bone to the sphenoid sinus. The fistula may be a durably
patent fistula, for example when access to the paranasal sinus is desired over an extended
period of time. The fistula may be more temporary in nature and formed to perform a single
procedure after which it is desired that the fistula will quickly repair and close.
[0034]     The fistula involved with methods of the invention may be formed by accessing a
location in the lacrimal apparatus where the proximal end of the fistula is to be located, and
the fistula is then formed through tissue into the target paranasal sinus. The location in the
nasolacrimal duct may be accessed through the nasolacrimal duct, such as when the location
where the fistula is to be formed is located in the nasolacrimal duct. The location in the
lacrimal apparatus (e.g., lacrimal sac portion of nasolacrimal duct) may be accessed through a
canaliculus. Access to the lacrimal duct or lacrimal sac may also be via a percutaneous or
sub-conjunctival route, from which location a fistula may be formed from the lacrimal duct or
lacrimal sac into the target paranasal sinus. Access to the nasolacrimal duct may also be

                                                15
through the buccal gingival reflection, passing through the maxillary sinus, and the fistula
may then be formed from the nasolacrimal duct to the ethmoid sinus. When the location
where the fistula will be formed is in the orbit, access may be directly to the orbit. In some
situations the fistula may be formed surgically by first accessing the target paranasal sinus
and then surgically forming the fistula from the paranasal sinus into a target location in the
lacrimal system. For example, the maxillary sinus may be accessed percutaneously, sub
conjuntivally or through the buccal gingival reflection, and then from the maxillary sinus a
fistula may be formed from the maxillary sinus to the nasolacrimal duct or lacrimal sac. As
another example, the frontal sinus may be accessed percutaneously and then from the frontal
sinus a fistula may be formed from the frontal sinus into the orbit or lacrimal sac. For
situations when the fistula is between a location in the lacrimal apparatus that is in the
nasolacrimal duct or the lacrimal sac and the paranasal sinus, all or a portion of the lacrimal
apparatus from the puncta to the location in the nasolacrimal sac or the nasolacrimal duct
may be intubated. Such intubation may, for example include a conduit that extends from a
punctum through a canaliculus and to the location in the lacrimal sac or nasolacrimal duct.
Such a conduit may be an integral part of an implant device that passes through the fistula
into the paranasal sinus.
[0035]    When a method involves a treatment formulation (also referred to as a treatment
composition) the treatment formulation may be a drug formulation (also referred to as a drug
composition), for example for treatment of sinusitis or some other condition. Such a drug
formulation may include one or more than one drug. Some example drugs that may be
included in such a drug formulation include anti-inflammatories, antimicrobials, analgesics,
mucolytics, antivirals, decongestants, steroids, antihistamines, antibiotics and anti-fungals.
Such a treatment formulation may be an irrigation fluid, for irrigating the paranasal sinus.
[0036]    Some specific methods of the invention involving a fistula between a lacrimal
apparatus of a human and paranasal sinus are summarized below.
[0037]    A third aspect of the invention relates to a method for providing access to a
paranasal sinus of the human to permit performance of medical treatments or procedures in
the paranasal sinus over an extended time. The method comprises creating a surgically
formed, durably patent fistula between the lacrimal apparatus of the human and the paranasal

                                                  16
sinus.
[0038]     A number of feature refinements and additional features are applicable to the third
aspect of the invention. These feature refinements and additional features may be used
individually or in any combination. As such, each of the following features may be, but are
not required to be, used with any other feature or combination of the third aspect or any other
aspects of the invention.
[0039]     One or more techniques may be used to help maintain durable patency of the fistula
for an extended period of time. One technique for imparting durable patency is to, during the
creating, surgically form the fistula with a relatively large diameter, and preferably with a
clean cut to form the fistula. Such large diameter openings of clean cut tissue are highly
resistant to natural repair mechanisms and such a fistula may remain open for a significant
amount of time, which may essentially be permanent. The fistula may be formed with a
diameter of at least 2 millimeters, or at least 3 millimeters. The fistula may be not greater
than 6 millimeters, not greater than 5 millimeters, not greater than 4 millimeters or not greater
than 3.5 millimeters. Another technique for imparting durable patency to the fistula
comprises disposing through the fistula an implant device. The implant device occupies space
within the fistula and prevents tissue from repairing and closing the fistula. The implant
device may comprise an internal passage extending across the entire length of the fistula. A
conduit of the implant device made to be disposed through the fistula to maintain patency.
The implant device may be according to the first aspect of the invention. The implant device
may be other than according to the first aspect of the invention. The implant device may be
implanted using a surgical tool of a second aspect of the invention. The fistula may be formed
using a surgical tool according to the second aspect of the invention. Forming the fistula may
include formation of the fistula using one surgical tool and implanting the implant device
with a different surgical tool. The fistula may be dilated between initial formation of the
fistula and implantation of the implant device. One or more procedures may be aided by the
use of a guide wire extending through the fistula. For example, implantation of the implant
device may involve the use of such a guide wire. As another example, dilation of the fistula
may involve the use of such a guide wire. Another technique that may be used to impart
durable patency to the fistula comprises mechanical treatment of tissue adjacent to fistula to
inhibit tissue repair and closing of the fistula. One mechanical treatment technique may be
over-sewing tissue adjacent to the fistula. Another mechanical treatment technique may be

                                                   17
stapling tissue adjacent to the fistula. Another technique for imparting durable patency to the
fistula is treating tissue adjacent the fistula with a substance (e.g., a drug) effective to inhibit
natural repair of the fistula. The substance may include an antigranulation agent or an anti
scarring agent. The substance may comprise a steroid. The substance may comprise
Mitomycin C.
[0040]     The method may include performing a procedure involving introduction of a
treatment formulation through the fistula into the paranasal sinus. Such a treatment
formulation may include a drug formulation. Such a treatment formulation may include an
irrigation fluid for irrigating the paranasal sinus. The method may comprise a procedure
involving removal of fluid from a paranasal sinus. Such removal may be effected by gravity
drainage when the fistula is to a location in the lacrimal apparatus at a lower elevation than
the paranasal sinus (e.g., fistula from frontal sinus to orbit). Introducing a treatment
formulation into the paranasal sinus or removing fluid from the paranasal sinus, as the case
may be, may be performed through a hollow member disposed through the fistula. Treatment
formulation may be injected into the paranasal sinus from such a hollow member and fluid
may be removed by aspiration from the paranasal sinus through such a hollow member. Such
a hollow member may be disposed through the fistula contemporaneously with formation of
the fistula. The hollow member may be a hollow member of a surgical tool according to the
second aspect of the invention. The invention may comprise performing a procedure at a later
time not contemporaneous with forming the fistula. The method may comprise performing a
treatment comprising administering a treatment formulation to the vicinity of the eye to flow
from the lacrimal apparatus through the fistula into the paranasal sinus. The treatment
formulation may be administered in the form of eye drops. The treatment composition may
be an ophthalmic composition.
[0041]     In particular, in this aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
providing access to a paranasal sinus of a human to permit performance of medical treatments
or procedures in the paranasal sinus over an extended time, the method comprising:
         surgically forming a fistula between a location in the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit
and a paranasal sinus;
         implanting an implant device with a conduit of the implant device disposed through
the fistula to maintain patency of the fistula;

                                                 18
         the implant device comprising a proximal end at a first longitudinal end of the implant
device, a distal end at a second longitudinal end of the implant device that is longitudinally
opposite the first longitudinal end, and an internal passage for fluid communication through
the implant device;
         as implanted during the implanting the implant device being in an implantation
position, wherein:
                 with the conduit is disposed through the fistula;
                 the proximal end of the implant device is disposed in the lacrimal apparatus in
         the orbit;
                 the distal end of the implant device is disposed in the paranasal sinus; and
                 the internal passage opens into the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and into the
         paranasal sinus to provide fluid communication through the internal passage between
         the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and the paranasal sinus.
[0042]     A fourth aspect of the invention relates to a method for delivering a treatment
formulation to a paranasal sinus of a human. The method comprises administering the
treatment formulation for delivery to the paranasal sinus through a fistula formed between the
lacrimal apparatus of a human and a paranasal sinus.
[0043]     A number of feature refinements and additional features are applicable to the fourth
aspect of the invention. These feature refinements and additional features may be used
individually or in any combination. As such each of the following features may be, but are
not required to be, used with any other features or combination of the fourth aspect or any
other aspects of the invention.
[0044]     The administering may comprise injecting the treatment formulation into the
paranasal sinus from the hollow member disposed through the fistula. Such a hollow member
may be a hollow needle or cannula. The fistula may be a surgically formed, durably patent
fistula. The fistula may be not durably patent. The hollow member may be disposed through
the fistula for the purpose of delivering the treatment composition, after which the hollow
member may be removed to permit the fistula to repair and close.

                                                  19
[0045]    The administering may comprise administering the treatment formulation to the
vicinity of an eye to flow from the lacrimal apparatus through the fistula and into the
paranasal sinus. The treatment composition may be administered in the form of eye drops.
The eye drops may be an ophthalmic composition.
[0046]    In particular, in this fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
delivering a treatment formulation to a paranasal sinus of a human, the method comprising
administering the treatment formulation for delivery to the paranasal sinus through an internal
passage of an implant device having a conduit disposed through a fistula formed between a
location in a lacrimal apparatus of the human and the paranasal sinus, wherein:
        the implant device has a proximal end disposed in the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit
and a distal end disposed in the paranasal sinus; and
        the internal passage opens into the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and into the
paranasal sinus to provide fluid communication through the internal passage between the
lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and the paranasal sinus.
[0047]    A fifth aspect of the invention relates to a method for performing a medical
procedure in a paranasal sinus. The method comprises aspirating fluid from or injecting fluid
into the paranasal sinus through a conduit of a medical device while the conduit is disposed
through the fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and the paranasal sinus.
[0048]    A number of feature refinements and additional features are applicable to the fifth
aspect of the invention. These feature refinements and additional features may be used
individually or in any combination. As such, each of the following features may be, but are
not required to be used with any other feature or combination features of the fifth aspect or
any other aspects of the invention.
[0049]    The conduit may be a conduit of an implant device. The implant device may be
according to the first aspect of the invention. The implant device may be other than as
according to the first aspect of the invention. The conduit may comprise a hollow member
disposed through the fistula with the tip of the hollow member disposed within the paranasal
sinus. Such a hollow member may be, for example, a hollow needle or a cannula. The fluid

                                                   20
may comprise a treatment formulation.
[0050]    In particular, in this fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
performing a medical procedure in a paranasal sinus, the method comprising aspirating fluid
from or introducing fluid into the paranasal sinus through a conduit of an implant device
while the conduit is disposed through a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and
the paranasal sinus, the implant device comprising a proximal end at a first longitudinal end
of the implant device, a distal end at a second longitudinal end of the implant device that is
longitudinally opposite the first longitudinal end, and an internal passage for fluid
communication through the implant device; and
wherein:
        the proximal end of the implant device is disposed in the lacrimal apparatus in the
orbit;
        the distal end of the implant device is disposed in the paranasal sinus; and
        the internal passage opens into the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and into the
paranasal sinus to provide fluid communication through the internal passage between the
lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and the paranasal sinus.
[0051]    A sixth aspect of the invention relates to a method for treating a paranasal sinus of a
human. The method comprises transmitting lacrimal fluid from the lacrimal apparatus
through a surgically formed, durably patent fistula between the lacrimal apparatus of the
human and a paranasal sinus.
[0052]    A number of feature refinements and additional features are applicable to the sixth
aspect of the invention. These feature refinements and additional features may be used
individually or in any combination. As such each of the following features may be, but are
not required to be, used with any other feature or combination of features of the sixth aspect
or any other aspects of the invention.
[0053]    Lacrimal fluid (tears) have significant therapeutic properties and providing a supply
of lacrimal fluid to a paranasal sinus may have a beneficial effect concerning sinus
conditions, such as sinusitis. The fistula may be maintained durably patent by any appropriate
technique or techniques, such as those discussed previously. The fistula may be maintained as

                                                    21
durably patent by an implant device with an internal passage providing fluid communication
between the lacrimal apparatus and the paranasal sinus for conducting lacrimal fluid from the
lacrimal apparatus to the paranasal sinus. The implant device may be according to the first
aspect of the invention. The fistula may be between locations in the lacrimal apparatus and a
paranasal sinus as previously described. One preferred fistula route is between the orbit and
an ethmoid sinus. Another preferred fistula route is between the orbit and a maxillary sinus.
[0054]     In particular, in this sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
treating a paranasal sinus of a human, the method comprising transmitting lacrimal fluid from
a lacrimal apparatus in the orbit of the human through a conduit of an implant device
disposed through a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and the paranasal sinus,
the implant device comprising a proximal end at a first longitudinal end of the implant
device, a distal end at a second longitudinal end of the implant device that is longitudinally
opposite the first longitudinal end, and an internal passage for fluid communication through
the implant device; and
wherein:
         the proximal end of the implant device is disposed in the lacrimal apparatus in the
orbit;
         the distal end of the implant device is disposed in the paranasal sinus; and
         the internal passage opens into the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and into the
paranasal sinus to provide fluid communication through the internal passage between the
lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and the paranasal sinus.
[0055]     A seventh aspect of the invention relates to a kit comprising multiple surgical tools.
The kit includes a first surgical tool designed for initially forming a fistula and a second
surgical tool including an implant device and designed for implantation of an implant device
in a fistula after the fistula has already been formed to a desired size.
[0056]     A number of feature refinements and additional features are applicable to the
seventh aspect of the invention. These feature refinements and additional features may be
used individually or in any combination. As such each of the following features may be, but
are not required to be, used with any other feature or combination of features of the seventh

                                                   22
aspect or any other aspects of the invention.
[0057]     The kit may include a third surgical tool designed to dilate a fistula as initially
formed using the first surgical tool. The kit may include a guide wire that may be used to
guide tools to and through the fistula. The second surgical tool may be a surgical tool
according to the second aspect of the invention. The implant device of the second surgical
tool may be according to the first aspect of the invention. The implant device of the second
surgical tool may be not according to the first aspect of the invention.
[0058]     In particular, in this aspect of the invention, there is provided a kit comprising:
         a first surgical tool configured to form an initial fistula;
         an implant device according to the first aspect of the invention; and
         a carrier, the carrier including a member with a distal tip, the member being adapted
to be disposed through a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal sinus with the
distal tip located in the paranasal sinus and the carrier including a hand-manipulable handle
connected to the member;
wherein:
         the implant device is mountable on the carrier between the handle and the distal tip
with the member disposed through the internal passage and with a proximal end of the
implant device disposed toward the handle and a distal end of the implant device disposed
toward the distal tip of the member; and
         when the implant device is mounted on the carrier, the carrier is disengageable from
the implant device for implant placement of the implant device disposed through the fistula.
[0059]     Still other aspects of the invention are summarized below:
[0060]     The present methods and inventions described below propose a novel way to treat
sinusitis that is much less invasive than even current advanced surgical techniques. Natural
tears are rich in lysozymes and other agents that have potent antimicrobial activity and anti
inflammatory properties. The human eye produces an average of 300 micro liters of tears per
day. These tears drain from the region of the medial canthus of the eye into a collection
cistern, the naso-lacrimal sac (NLS) (also referred to herein as the lacrimal sac) and are then

                                                 23
pumped through the nasal-lacrimal duct (NLD) into the nasal cavity, bypassing the paranasal
sinuses. Tear outflow is governed in part by contraction of the orbicularis oculi muscle plus
passive and/or active participation by a lacrimal pumping mechanism due to the helical
arrangement of collagen and elastin fibers that make up the NLD. The NLS is separated from
the ethmoid sinuses (a common site for isolated sinusitis) by a thin boney wall. The mid
portion of the NLD is also separated from the maxillary sinus by a thin boney wall.
[0061]     For diagnostic and therapeutic purposes, the canaliculi of the lacrimal system can be
cannulated with various probes. In addition, endoscopic or radiological (fluoroscopic or
computed tomography (CT)) visualization can afford excellent navigational guidance to
cannulate the NLS and NLD. The creation of a permanent or temporary communication
between the NLS and the anterior ethmoid sinuses would allow direct constant flow of
antibiotic tears into the sinuses. Similarly, the creation of a permanent or temporary
communication more inferiorly between the NLD and the ipsilateral maxillary sinus would
result in tear flow diversion into this sinus cavity. In addition to providing a new method for
draining acute infections, this rerouting of lacrimal flow provides an effective delivery
pathway for a host of ocular-safe active medications directly into the sinuses bypassing a
major limitation to the medical treatment of sinusitis. Medications that are highly likely to
prevent and/or treat acute/chronic sinusitis include antibiotics (such as ofloxacin eye drops),
antihistamines, steroids, and even bacteriostatic saline eye drops (natural tears).
[0062]     Once an osteotomy between the NLS/NLD and the desired sinus cavity (the general
term for this would be dacrocystosinotomy) is procured (either from the lacrimal cannaliculi
or the nasal orifice), a temporary or permanent stent or portal could be inserted to ensure
long-term patency. Such an otomy may be termed a dacrocystoethmoidotomy (NLS to
ethmoid sinus) or a dacrocystomaxillotomy (NLD to maxillary sinus), analogous to the
currently performed dacrocystorihnotomy (wherein the NLD is opened into the nasal cavity
at a location superior to the normal drainage orifice). An alternate route of access into the
NLD would be through the inferior meatus under the inferior turbinate. The following
methods and instruments capitalize on functional anatomy and physiology to optimize flow
diversion into desired areas and maintain patency of the osteotomy or osteotomies without
compromising the normal pumping mechanism of the NLS/NLD. See figures 1-3 for
additional anatomic details

                                                24
[0063]   Some specific additional aspects of the invention, which may be combined in any
combination with other aspects of the invention, or any features thereof, contemplate:
1.     A method to divert the tear duct pathway(s) from the superior and inferior canaliculus
       to the NLS & NLD and inferior meatus towards the targeted paranasal sinuses and
       creating a conduit for the purpose of treating a variety of sinus conditions that
       capitalizes on the natural pumping mechanism of the NLS/NLD system.
2.     A method to suction and/or drain and/or irrigate the target sinus once this conduit has
       been established.
3.     Tools or instruments to aid drainage of the target sinus, with or without guidance
       systems.
4.     Methods and tool to maintain patency of the conduit otomy so the desired drugs or
       other materials can be delivered to the target sinus to treat a variety of conditions,
       including stents, drains, certain drugs, or energy sources, such as light, acoustic, RF,
       heat, or cryo devices.
5.     A method whereby the natural antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties of tears
       can be diverted into the target sinus to reduce recurrence, relapse, or chronicity of
       infectious or inflammatory conditions.
6.     If more than one sinus is targeted either on a single side or bilaterally, a method and
       tools to optimize flow dynamics preferentially into or away from a desired sinus.
7.     A method to perform this procedure as an office procedure without general anesthesia
       using fluoroscopic guidance, cross sectional imaging guidance, endoscopic guidance,
       unguided with tactile and directional feedback, or a combination of the above.
8.     A method to perform this procedure in an operative environment as an open or image
       guided procedure as necessary.
9.     A method to perform these procedures with 3D and or sterotactic guidance.
10.    Methods and tools to access the NLS and/or NLD via a percutaneous or
       subconjunctival route.

                                            25
11. Methods and tools to access the maxillary sinus through the buccal gingival reflection
    and thereby create a portal into the NLD.
12. Specialized instruments to access the NLS through the superior or inferior canaliculus
    and thereby create a conduit or portal through which other instruments can be
    delivered.
13. Special coatings of tools to improve navigation of both rigid and flexible devises
    throughout desire anatomic areas.
14. The channels from the superior or inferior canaliculus into the NLS are mirror image
    to one another; these specialized instruments are designed to be reversible and
    ergonomically efficient for accessing either portal of entry.
15. A method and tools to perform a dacrocystogram to aid fluoroscopic guidance.
16. Specialized instruments to access the NLD through the inferior meatus and thereby
    create a conduit or portal through which other instruments can be delivered.
17. Method and instruments to pass a rigid, flexible, semi-flexible, or steerable guide wire
    or other navigational device through the NLS and NLD, past the valve of Hasner to
    provide access for instruments via the inferior meatus.
18. Method and instruments to pass a rigid, flexible, semi-flexible, or steerable guide wire
    or other navigational device through the NLS and NLD, from the inferior or superior
    canaliculus.
19. A method and instruments for creating an otomy between the NLS/NLD and the
    anterior ethmoid bulla.
    a)      Tools to create said otomy, include mechanical sources such as drills and
            punches as well as energy sources (e.g. RF, LASER, and acoustic);
    b)      Specialized geometries of said instruments for optimize placement of said
            otomy;
    c)      Specialized protective devises to maximize safety of otomy creation; and

                                            26
    d)      The use of balloons, hooks, or other friction devices to anchor the device in the
            desired anatomy and thereby create a stable platform to create the otomy.
20. A method and tools for navigating throughout the ethmoid sinuses through said otomy
    with fluoroscopic or endoscopic guidance, or other forms of imaging guidance
    including 3D or sterotactic virtual guidance and navigation.
21. A method and tools for navigation throughout the ethmoid sinuses to create and insure
    patent communication between the ethmoid, sphenoid and frontal sinuses so that each
    of these sinuses can also be treated by the methods described herein.
22. A method and instruments for creating an otomy between the NLS/NLD and the
    maxillary sinus.
    a)      Tools to create said otomy, include mechanical sources such as drills and
            punches as well as energy sources (e.g. RF, LASER, and acoustic);
    b)      Specialized geometries of said instruments to optimize placement of said
            otomy; and
    c)      Specialized protective devises to maximize safety of otomy creation.
23. Methods and instruments that capitalize on the natural functional anatomy of the NLS
    and NLD to optimize flow diversion to desired areas.
24. Methods, tools and instruments, including special materials and or coatings or
    capacity for drug elution to maintain patency of said otomies.
25. Techniques to provide drug elution capability of any temporary or permanent implant
    devices to aid healing patency, or optimize therapy.
26. Methods and tools to expand the otomy to a desired final diameter via mechanical
    methods such as a drill, punch, ronger, probe, or expandable balloon.
27. Methods and tools to expand the otomy to a desired final diameter via energy sources
    such as light, heat, RF, or acoustic devices.
28. In certain cases, a method for delivery of a balloon expandable or selfexpandable stent
    or conduit through the otomy to help maintain patency of said otomy.

                                             27
29. Special design and techniques to manufacture said stent or conduit to insure long term
    patency.
30. Specialized geometries of said stent or conduit to optimize flow diversion and help
    maintain patency of sad pathways.
31. Methods and instruments to optimally occlude the NLD in a temporary or permanent
    manner to optimize flow diversion into the desired sinus cavities and away from the
    nasal cavity, including the use of energy sources to occlude the sinus or the
    installation of temporary or permanent occlusive structures.
32. A method of therapy to divert the tear duct pathway(s) from the nasallacrimal sac and
    duct to targeted paranasal sinuses, the method having the steps:
    a)      inserting a surgical tool into the lacrimal sac or duct via the inferior or superior
            canaliculus;
    b)      guiding the tip of the surgical tool to a targeted spot adjacent to the targeted
            paranasal sinus;
    c)      using the surgical tool to open a fistula in the septum between the lacrimal sac
            or duct and the targeted paranasal sinus; and
    d)      removing said surgical tool, to create conduits for tear or pharmaceutical flow
            into the targeted paranasal sinuses for the purpose of treating a variety of sinus
            conditions.
33. The method of number 32 wherein the targeted paranasal sinus is an ethmoid sinus.
34. A method and tools to cannulate the frontal sinus via its communication with the
    ethmoid sinus at the frontal-ethmoidal recess or by direct perforation into this sinus
    for the treatment of frontal sinusitis.
35. A method and tools to cannulate the sphenoid sinus via its communication with the
    ethmoid sinus at the spheno-ethmoidal recess or by direct perforation into this sinus
    for the treatment of sphenoid sinusitis.
36. The method of number 32 wherein the targeted paranasal sinus is a maxillary sinus.

                                             28
37. The method of number 32 wherein the diversion of the tear pathway capitalizes on the
    natural pumping mechanism of the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct system.
38. The method of number 32 wherein the procedure could be performed as an office
    procedure with or without general anesthesia, using fluoroscopic guidance, cross
    sectional imaging guidance, endoscopic guidance, unguided with tactile and
    directional feedback, or a combination of the above.
39. The method of number 32 wherein surgical tools are used to cut or excise tissue and
    bone between the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct and the targeted paranasal sinuses.
40. A method of therapy to divert the tear duct pathway(s) from the nasallacrimal sac and
    duct to targeted paranasal sinuses, the method having the steps:
    a)      inserting a surgical tool into the lacrimal duct via the valve of Hasner;
    b)      guiding the tip of the surgical tool to a targeted spot adjacent to the targeted
            paranasal sinus;
    c)      using the surgical tool to open a fistula in the septum between the lacrimal
            duct and the targeted paranasal sinus;
    d)      removing said surgical tool, to create conduits for tear flow into the targeted
            paranasal sinuses for the purpose of treating a variety of sinus conditions.
41. The method of number 40 wherein the targeted paranasal sinus is an ethmoid sinus &
    by extension, methods and tools to treat both the frontal and sphenoid sinuses through
    the normal or created communication pathways of these sinus cavities as in numbers
    34 and 35.
42. The method of number 40 wherein the targeted paranasal sinus is a maxillary sinus.
43. The method of number 40 wherein the diversion of the tear pathway capitalizes on the
    natural pumping mechanism of the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct system.
44. The method of number 40 wherein the procedure could be performed as an office
    procedure with or without general anesthesia using fluoroscopic guidance, cross

                                              29
    sectional imaging guidance, endoscopic guidance, unguided with tactile and
    directional feedback, or a combination of the above.
45. The method of number 40 wherein surgical tools are used to cut or excise tissue and
    bone between the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct and the targeted paranasal sinuses.
46. A method of therapy to divert the tear duct pathway(s) from the nasallacrimal sac and
    duct to targeted paranasal sinuses, the method having the steps:
    a)      inserting a surgical tool directly into a maxillary sinus via percutaneous
            methods and then creating a communication into the lacrimal duct;
    b)      guiding the tip of the surgical tool to a targeted spot adjacent to the targeted
            paranasal sinus;
    c)      using the surgical tool to open a fistula in the septum between the lacrimal
            duct and the targeted paranasal sinus; and
    d)      removing said surgical tool, to create conduits for tear flow into the targeted
            paranasal sinuses for the purpose of treating a variety of sinus conditions.
47. The method of number 46 wherein the targeted paranasal sinus is an ethmoid sinus &
    by extension, methods and tools to treat both the frontal and sphenoid sinuses through
    the normal communication pathways of these sinus cavities.
48. The method of number 46 wherein the diversion of the tear pathway capitalizes on the
    natural pumping mechanism of the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct system.
49. The method of number 46 wherein the procedure could be performed as an office
    procedure with or without general anesthesia using fluoroscopic guidance, cross
    sectional imaging guidance, endoscopic guidance, unguided with tactile and
    directional feedback, or a combination of the above.
50. The method of number 46 wherein surgical tools are used to cut or excise tissue and
    bone between the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct and the targeted paranasal sinuses.
51. A method of therapy to divert the tear duct pathway(s) from the nasallacrimal sac and
    duct to targeted paranasal sinuses, the method having the steps:

                                                 30
       a)      inserting a surgical tool directly into the nasal lacrimal sac or duct via
               percutaneous or sub-conjunctival approaches and then creating a
               communication from the lacrimal duct into the targeted sinus;
       b)      guiding the tip of the surgical tool to a targeted spot adjacent to the targeted
               paranasal sinus;
       c)      using the surgical tool to open a fistula in the septum between the lacrimal
               duct and the targeted paranasal sinus; and
       d)      removing said surgical tool, to create conduits for tear flow into the targeted
               paranasal sinuses for the purpose of treating a variety of sinus conditions.
52.    The method of number 51 wherein the targeted paranasal sinus is an ethmoid sinus &
       by extension methods and tools to treat both the frontal and sphenoid sinuses through
       the normal communication pathways of these sinus cavities.
53.    The method of number 51 wherein the targeted paranasal sinus is a maxillary sinus.
54.    The method of number 51 wherein the diversion of the tear pathway capitalizes on the
       natural pumping mechanism of the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct system.
55.    The method of number 51 wherein the procedure could be performed as an office
       procedure with or without general anesthesia using fluoroscopic guidance, cross
       sectional imaging guidance, endoscopic guidance, unguided with tactile and
       directional feedback, or a combination of the above.
56.    The method of number 46 wherein surgical tools are used to cut or excise tissue and
       bone between the nasal-lacrimal sac and duct and the targeted paranasal sinuses.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0064]    Figure 1 is an illustration showing components of the lacrimal apparatus.
[0065]    Figure 2 is an illustration showing general locations of paranasal sinuses.

                                                 31
[0066]    Figure 3 is an illustration showing some example routes for fistulas between the
lacrimal apparatus and the paranasal sinuses.
[0067]    Figure 4 is perspective view of one embodiment of an implant device.
[0068]    Figure 5 is a side view of the same embodiment of an implant device as shown in
Figure 4.
[0069]    Figure 6 is an end view of the same embodiment of an implant device as show in
Figure 4.
[0070]    Figure 7 is a partial perspective view of the same embodiment of an implant device
as shown in Figure 4.
[0071]    Figure 8 is a partial side view of an embodiment of an implant device.
[0072]    Figure 9 is a partial side view of an embodiment of an implant device.
[0073]    Figure 10 is an illustration of cross-sections of various configurations for anchor
protrusions for an implant device.
[0074]    Figure 11 is an illustration of various head configurations for an implant device.
[0075]    Figure 12 is a perspective view of an embodiment of an implant device.
[0076]    Figure 13 is an end view of the same embodiment of an implant device shown in
Figure 12.
[0077]    Figure 14 is an illustration showing an embodiment for placement of an implant
device between the lacrimal caruncle and plica semilunaris.
[0078]    Figure 15 is a side view of an embodiment of an implant device.

                                                 32
[0079]     Figure 16 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a surgical tool.
[0080]     Figure 17 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a surgical tool showing some
components in exploded view.
[0081]     Figure 18 is a perspective view of the same embodiment of a surgical tool shown in
Figure 17, showing the surgical tool fully assembled.
[0082]     Figure 19 is a perspective view showing a first carrier piece of the same
embodiment of a tool shown in Figures 17 and 18, with the first carrier piece connected with
a syringe.
[0083]     Figure 20 is an illustration showing use of a surgical tool to form a fistula between
the orbit and an ethmoid sinus during a surgical procedure.
[0084]     Figure 21 is an illustration showing insertion of a guide wire following formation of
the fistula during a surgical procedure.
[0085]     Figure 22 is an illustration showing a guide wire in place as a guide to a fistula
during a surgical procedure.
[0086]     Figure 23 is an illustration showing use of a surgical tool for implantation of an
implant device during a surgical procedure.
[0087]     Figure 24 is an illustration showing placement of an implant device following
implantation during a surgical procedure.
[0088]     Figure 25 is an illustration showing use of a surgical tool to dilate a fistula following
initial formation of the fistula during a surgical procedure.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0089]     The terms "lacrimal apparatus" and "lacrimal system" are used interchangeably
herein to refer to the collection of physiological components that accomplish the production

                                                 33
and secretion of lacrimal fluid to lubricate the eyeball, containment of lacrimal fluid in a
reservoir of lacrimal fluid in the orbit and drainage of lacrimal fluid from the orbit to the
nasal cavity. The lacrimal apparatus includes the lacrimal glands, the tear drainage system
and the reservoir of lacrimal fluid located between the lacrimal glands and the tear drainage
system. The reservoir of lacrimal fluid includes the eyelid margins and the conjunctival sac
(and including the pool of tears in the lower conjunctival cul-de-sac that is sometimes
referred to as the lacrimal lake). The tear drainage system includes the puncta, canaliculi and
nasolacrimal duct (including the so-called lacrimal sac located at the top of the nasolacrimal
duct) through which excess tears drain to Hasner's valve and into the nasal cavity. Figure 1
shows generally the lacrimal apparatus. Lacrimal fluid is produced and secreted from
lacrimal glands 102 to lubricate the surface of the eyeball 104 disposed within the orbit.
Lacrimal fluid forms a coating over the eyeball 104 and is generally contained within the
conjunctival sac (the space between the lower eyelid 106, upper eyelid 108 and eyeball 104
that is lined by the conjunctiva). Excess lacrimal fluid is conducted to the vicinity of the
medial canthus (medial corner of the eye) and drains through the lacrimal puncta 110 into the
lacrimal canaliculi 112 and into the lacrimal sac 114 of the nasolacrimal duct 116. The
lacrimal fluid then drains from the nasolacrimal duct 116 through Hasner's valve and into the
nasal cavity.
[0090]     As used herein, a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal sinus refers
to an artificially-created passage that fluidly connects the lacrimal apparatus with the
paranasal sinus. The paranasal sinuses include the frontal sinuses, maxillary sinuses, ethmoid
sinuses and sphenoid sinuses, which are cavities contained within frontal, maxilla, ethmoid
and sphenoid bones, respectively. The paranasal sinuses drain into the nasal cavity. Figure 2
is a schematic of a human head showing generally the locations of the frontal sinuses 122, the
maxillary sinuses 124 and the ethmoid sinuses 126. The sphenoid sinuses (not shown) are
located generally behind the ethmoid sinuses 126. Figure 3 shows generally some possible
routes for a fistula between the lacrimal system and a paranasal sinus. Reference numerals
indicate the same features as shown in Figures 1 and 2, except as noted. Figure 3 shows the
general proximity of the frontal sinus 122, maxillary sinus 124 and ethmoid sinus 126 relative
to features of the lacrimal apparatus. Some example fistula routes are shown in Figure 3 by
dashed lines. A first example fistula route 130 is from the orbit to the frontal sinus. A second
example fistula route 132 is from the orbit to the ethmoid sinus 126. A third example fistula
route 134 is from the orbit to the maxillary sinus 124. A fourth example fistula route 136 is

                                                 34
from the lacrimal sac 114 at the top of the nasolacrimal duct 116 to the ethmoid sinus 126. A
fifth example fistula route 138 is from the nasolacrimal duct 116 at a location below the
lacrimal sac 114 to the ethmoid sinus 126. A sixth example fistula route 140 is from the
nasolacrimal duct 116 at a location below the lacrimal sac 114 to the maxillary sinus 124.
The example fistula routes shown in Figure 3 are for purposes of general illustration only and
not show precise locations where a fistula might be formed to connect a part of the lacrimal
apparatus with the corresponding paranasal sinus. Although not shown in Figure 3, example
fistula routes to the sphenoid sinus include from the orbit to the sphenoid sinus and from the
nasolacrimal duct 116 to the sphenoid sinus. Forming a fistula to connect to the sphenoid
sinuses is generally not as preferred as forming a fistula to connect to the ethmoid sinus, for
example because it is generally more convenient and direct to connect with the ethmoid
sinus. Also, forming a fistula to either the ethmoid sinus 126 or the maxillary sinus 124 is
generally preferred to forming a fistula to the frontal sinus 122, with one reason being that a
fistula between the lacrimal system and either the ethmoid sinus 126 or the maxillary sinus
124 may be formed in a way to obtain the benefit of gravity to assist drainage of lacrimal
fluid from the lacrimal system into the corresponding paranasal sinus through the fistula. The
frontal sinus is located generally above the orbit and will not benefit in the same way from
gravity drainage of lacrimal fluid into the paranasal sinus. However, gravity drainage may
beneficially assist drainage of fluid from the frontal sinus.
[0091]    With continued reference to Figure 3, the first, second and third example fistula
routes 130, 132 and 134 are subconjuctival routes that penetrate the conjunctiva to directly
connect the lacrimal fluid reservoir within the conjunctival sac to the corresponding paranasal
sinus. A fistula along such a subconjunctival route may be surgically formed by a surgical
tool piercing through the conjunctiva and the adjacent wall of the bone in which is disposed
the corresponding paranasal sinus. For example, for the first example fistula route 130, the
fistula would pass subconjunctivally from the orbit and through a wall of the frontal bone into
the frontal sinus 122. For example, a fistula following second example fistula route 132
would pass subconjuctivally from the orbit and through a wall of the ethmoid bone into the
ethmoid sinus 126. For example, a fistula following the third example fistula route 134 would
pass subconjuctivally from the orbit through a wall of the maxilla bone into the maxillary
sinus 124. Subconjuctival routes for a fistula such as those of the first, second and third
example fistula routes 130, 132 and 134 are generally preferred as being formed at locations
that are relatively easy to access. In a preferred implementation of the first, second and third

                                                 35
example fistula routes 130, 132 and 134, the proximal end of the fistula opening into the orbit
is located between the lacrimal caruncle 142 and the plica semilunaris 144, shown in Figure
3.
[0092]    Continuing with reference to Figure 3, a fistula at the fourth, fifth or sixth example
fistula routes 136, 138 and 140 will have a proximal end opening into a location within the
nasolacrimal duct 116. Formation of a fistula in such a location requires insertion of a
surgical tool into the lacrimal drainage system, such as through the puncta 110 and canaliculi
112 to access the nasolacrimal duct 116 or through the nose to access the nasolacrimal duct
116. For example, a fistula at the fourth example fistula route 136 may be formed by a
piercing instrument (e.g., a trocar or trocar/cannula assembly) inserted into one of the puncta
110, through one of the canaliculi 112 and across the lacrimal sac 114 to pierce a hole at the
location of the fourth example fistula route 136. As another example, a fistula may be formed
at one of the fourth, fifth and sixth example fistula routes 136, 138 and 140 using a guide
wire inserted into one of the puncta 110, through one of the canaliculi 112, into the lacrimal
sac 114 and downward through the nasolacrimal duct 116. The guide wire may be used to
engage a surgical tool and to guide the surgical tool from the nose through Hasner's valve
(not shown) and to the appropriate location within the nasolacrimal duct 116 to permit
performance of a surgical operation at that location to form the desired fistula.
[0093]    Figures 4-7 show one embodiment of an implant device. As shown in Figures 4-7,
an implant device 200 has a proximal end 202 and a distal end 204 located on opposite
longitudinal ends of the implant device 200. The implant device 200 includes a head 206 at
the proximal end 202 and a conduit 208 extending from the head 206 to the distal end 204.
An internal passage 210 extends from the proximal end 202 to the distal end 204, passing
through the head 206 and the conduit 208. The internal passage 210 opens at the proximal
end 202 and the distal end 204, thereby providing a passage through the entire longitudinal
length of the implant device 200. The internal passage 210 of the embodiment shown in
Figure 4 has a cylindrical shape with a uniform circular cross-section (transverse to the length
of the implant device 200), and the width of the internal passage is equal to the diameter of
the circle of the cross-section and is uniform along the length of the implant device 200. The
length of the implant device 200 is the minimum distance longitudinally along the implant
device 200 between the proximal end 202 and the distal end 204, and will typically be equal
to the distance along an axis of the internal passage 210 from the proximal end 202 to the

                                                36
distal end 204. The implant device 200 includes multiple anchor protrusions 212 on an
exterior of the conduit 208. In the embodiment shown in Figures 4-7, the anchor protrusions
212 are in the form of spaced circumferential ridges that each extends around the entire
circumference of the conduit 208. Adjacent the circumferential ridges of the anchor
protrusions 212 are areas of recess 214 on the exterior of the conduit 208.
[0094]     With continued reference to Figures 4-7, when the implant device is implanted to
fluidly connect the lacrimal apparatus to a paranasal sinus through a fistula, the head 206 is
disposed in the lacrimal apparatus and the proximal end 202 is disposed in the paranasal
sinus, and with at least a portion of the conduit 208 disposed through the fistula with at least
one, and preferably more than one, of the anchor protrusions 212 engaging tissue within the
fistula to anchor the implant device 200. When implanted in this manner, the internal passage
210 opens into the lacrimal apparatus at the proximal end 202 and into the paranasal sinus at
the distal end 204. The head 206 has a flanged tissue engagement surface 216 on a side of the
head 206 disposed toward the conduit 208, and which flanged tissue engagement surface 216
is advantageously configured to engage tissue adjacent the proximal end of fistula and to
prevent the proximal end 202 of the implant device 200 from migrating into the fistula
following implantation. On the side of the head 206 opposite the flanged tissue engagement
surface 216 is a face surface 218 of the head 206, which face surface 218 is disposed away
from tissue engaged by the flanged tissue engagement surface 216 when the implant device is
implanted. The head 206 has a first dimension 220 and a second dimension 222 on both the
flanged tissue engagement surface 216 and the face surface 218. The first dimension 220 is
the length of the respective surface and the second dimension is the width of the respective
surface. Such length and width dimensions may also be referred to as major and minor
dimensions. The first dimension 220 of a surface 216 or 218 corresponds to the maximum
separation distance between points on the outer edge of the surface, and the second
dimension 222 of the surface 216 or 218 corresponds to the maximum separation distance
between points on the outer edge of the surface that are on a line transverse to the first
dimension. Conveniently, the face surface 218 and the flanged tissue engagement surface 216
may be made with corresponding outer edges, so that the opposing surfaces 216 and 218 have
substantially equal length and width dimensions, although such is not required. The first
dimension 220 and the second dimension 222 may be referred to generally as the length and
width, respectively, of the head 206 when the surfaces 216 and 218 have corresponding
shapes, as is the case for the embodiment shown in Figures 4-7. When the surfaces 216 and

                                                37
218 do not have corresponding shapes, the length and width dimensions of the head will be
different from one or more of the length and width dimensions of the surfaces 216 and 218.
The head 206 has a depth dimension 223 between surfaces 216 and 218. The depth dimension
223 should preferably be kept to a small value so that the head 206 will have a low profile
adjacent the proximal end of the fistula when the implant device 200 is implanted with the
flanged tissue engagement surface engaging tissue adjacent the proximal end of the fistula.
[0095]    With continued reference to Figures 4-7, the conduit 208 has a first exterior width
224 that is a maximum exterior width of the conduit 208 as defined by the maximum extents
of the anchor protrusions 212 transverse to the length of the conduit 208. The conduit 208 has
a second exterior width 226 that is a minimum exterior width of the conduit 208 defined
between the most recessed portions of the areas of recess 214. In the embodiment shown in
Figures 4-7, the height of the anchor protrusions 212 is equal to one-half the difference
between the first exterior width 224 and the second exterior width 226 of the conduit 208. In
the configuration of the head 206 shown in Figure 4-7, the first dimension 220 of the head is
larger than both the first exterior width 224 and the second exterior width 226 of the conduit
208, while the second dimension 222 of the head is approximately equal to the second
exterior width 224 of the conduit 208.
[0096]    With continued reference to Figures 4-7, the anchor protrusions 212 are in the form
of circumferential ridges having a width that is at a maximum at the bottom of the ridges
located adjacent the areas of recess 214, and which width tapers to a minimum at the top of
the ridges 212 located away from the recess areas 214. Other configurations for anchor
protrusions are possible, and all anchor protrusions on an implant device need not be of the
same size, geometry or height. Likewise, areas of recess may have varying configurations,
and not all recesses on an implant device need to be the same size or configuration. The
implant device 200 has a length 228 including the depth 223 of the head 206 and the length of
the conduit 208. The anchor protrusions 212 are on a longitudinal portion 230 of the conduit
208.
[0097]    Referring now to Figure 8, an alternative embodiment is shown of a conduit 240 of
an implant device having anchor protrusions 242 in the form of knobs, or buttons, and areas
of recess 244 adjacent the anchor protrusions 242. The conduit 240 has a first exterior width
246 defined by the anchor protrusions 242 and a smaller, second exterior width 248 defined

                                                  38
by the areas of recess 244. An example of another configuration for anchor protrusions is
shown in Figure 9. As shown in Figure 9, a conduit 250 of an implant device has anchor
protrusions 252 and areas of recess 254 on the exterior surface of the conduit 250. The anchor
protrusions 252 are in the form of a continuous spiral ridge extending along a portion of the
longitudinal length of the conduit 250. The conduit 250 has a first exterior width 256 defined
by the anchor protrusions 254 and a smaller, second exterior width 258 defined by the areas
of recess 254. As with the embodiments shown in Figures 4-7, the conduit embodiment
shown in Figures 8 and 9 include a height of the anchor protrusions that is equal to one half
the difference between the larger and smaller outer diameters of the respective conduits. As
will be appreciated from the embodiments of Figures 8 and 9, the first exterior width is
determined as the width of an envelope volume that contains the anchor protrusions.
[0098]     Figure 10 shows examples of some shapes for anchor protrusions that include a
tapering width in a direction from the base of the anchor protrusion toward a top of the
anchor protrusion. Figure 10 shows cross-sections of anchor protrusion configurations
(designated A-D), each having a greater width at the base than at the top. The height (H) and
base width (W) of the anchor protrusions are indicated in Figure 10. The cross-sections
shown in Figure 10 may, for example, be across a ridge (e.g., circumferential ridge, spiral
ridge), a knob protrusion or other anchor protrusion form. All of the anchor protrusion
configurations A-D in Figure 10 are shown with a leading side of the anchor protrusion on
the right side and a trailing side on left side of the anchor protrusion. By leading side it is
meant a side that enters the fistula first when a conduit containing the anchor protrusion is
inserted into the fistula for implantation. By trailing side it is meant the side opposite the
leading side and that enters the fistula after the leading side. As will be appreciated, forces
applied to the anchor protrusions by tissue contacting the anchor protrusions during insertion
into a fistula will impart stresses to the anchor protrusions and, to an extent as permitted by
the material of construction of the anchor protrusion, such stresses will tend to deform the
anchor protrusion in a direction toward the trailing side. Such deformation aids insertion, and
is generally preferred to some degree. The different shapes of the configurations A-D affect
the relative ease of insertion of a conduit into and removal of the conduit from a fistula.
Configuration A is designed to be equally easy to insert and removable from a fistula while
each of configurations B-D are designed to be more easy to insert into a fistula and more
difficult to remove from the fistula. Configurations B and C are angled in a way to promote
more easy insertion and more difficult removal from a fistula. Configuration D includes a

                                                39
hooked end to engage tissue on the trailing side to make removal from a fistula more difficult
than insertion.
[0099]    Figure 11 shows some different example configurations (designated E-H) for a head
for an implant device. For each head configuration, the length dimension (L) and width
dimension (W) of the head configurations are shown. The heads of configurations E-H are
shown on end showing the face surface (surface facing away from the fistula when
implanted) and the opening of the internal passage at the proximal end of the implant device.
For each of the head configurations E-H, the length and width of the face surface and the
opposing flanged tissue engagement surface are the same. As shown in Figure 11, head
configuration E has a circular outer edge, and thus has equal length and width dimensions.
Head configuration F has an elongated length dimension relative to width dimension, similar
to that shown in the implant device embodiment described with reference to Figures 4-7.
Head configuration G has an elongated length dimension relative to the width dimension,
similar to configuration F, but for configuration G the internal passage opening at the
proximal end of the implant device has an elliptical cross-section, rather than a circular cross
section as is the case for configurations E and F. Head configuration H has a crescent-shaped
head with a significantly larger length dimension than width dimension. The internal passage
for configuration H is also shown with an elliptical cross-section. Configurations F-H, with a
larger length than width, are advantageously configured for use with fistulas opening into the
orbit between the plica semilunaris and the lacrimal caruncle, with the length dimension of
the head extending generally in a direction from the bottom of the orbit toward the top of the
orbit next to the eyeball, and for configuration H with the concave side of the crescent
disposed toward the eyeball and the convex side of the crescent disposed towards the lacrimal
caruncle.
[0100]    Figures 12 and 13 show another embodiment for an implant device. As shown in
Figures 12 and 13, an implant device 300 has a proximal end 302 and a distal end 304, with a
head 306 located at the distal end 304 and a conduit 308 extending from the head 306 to the
distal end 304. The conduit 308 includes an internal passage 310 with a cylindrical shape and
opening at the proximal end 302 and the distal end 304. The conduit 310 has an exterior
surface including anchor protrusions 312, in the form of circumferential ridges with tapering
width, and areas of recess 314 adjacent the anchor protrusions 312. The head 306 has an

                                                 40
elongated shape with a significantly larger length dimension 316 than width dimension 318.
As seen in Figure 12, a flanged tissue engagement surface 320 has a beveled configuration
(beveled halves extending from central line) to help seat against tissue in a manner to prevent
rotation of the implant device 300 when implanted. The face surface 322 is a flat surface to
provide a low profile to the head 306 when the implant device 300 is implanted. The
configuration of the head 306 is well suited for placement between the plica semilunaris and
lacrimal caruncle for use with a subconjunctival fistula route from the orbit where the
opening of the fistula into the orbit is located between the plica semilunaris and the lacrimal
caruncle. The length dimensions 316 and width dimension 318 represents the length and
width of each of the face surface 322 and the flanged tissue engagement surface 320.
[0101]    Figure 14 shows an example of an implant device with a conduit passing through a
fistula formed subconjunctivally between the lacrimal caruncle 350 and the plica semilunaris
352, and showing an example location for the head 354 of the implant device. The head 354
is shown with an elongated configuration, such as for example the head configuration shown
in Figures 4-7, one of the head configurations F-H shown in Figure 11 or the head
configuration shown in Figures 12 and 13.
[0102]    Figure 15 shows another embodiment of an implant device. As shown in Figure 15,
an implant device 400 has a proximal end 402 and a distal end 404. The implant device 400
includes a head 406 at the proximal end 402 and a conduit 408 extending from the head 406
to the distal end 404. The conduit 408 has an exterior surface with anchor protrusions 412
and areas of recess 414 adjacent the anchor protrusions 412. An internal passage 410 (shown
by dashed lines) extends from the proximal end 402 to the distal end 404. A distal
longitudinal portion of the conduit 408 includes apertures 415 through the wall of the conduit
408 and providing fluid communication from the internal passage 410 to outside of the
conduit 408. The apertures 415 provide a route for drug formulations, irrigation solutions or
other treatment compositions to exit from the internal passage into different locations within
a paranasal sinus when the implant device 400 is implanted. When the implant device 400 is
implanted, at least one or more of the anchor protrusions 412 will be located within the fistula
to engage tissue for anchoring and at least some, and preferably all, of the apertures 415 will
be disposed beyond the distal end of the fistula inside of a paranasal cavity. The configuration

                                                 41
shown in Figure 15 is particularly advantageous for situations when the conduit 408 extends
through multiple cavities of a paranasal sinus or when the conduit 408 extends from one
paranasal sinus into another paranasal sinus. The embodiment shown in Figure 15 does not
include the anchor protrusions 412 on the longitudinal portion of the conduit 408 where the
apertures 415 are disposed. As an alternative configuration, the longitudinal portion of the
conduit 408 including the apertures 415 could include anchor protrusions, of the same
configuration as those of the anchor protrusions 412 or of different configurations.
[0103]    Figure 16 shows one embodiment of a surgical tool. As shown in Figure 16, a
surgical tool 500 includes an implant device 502 having a head 504 and a conduit 506, for
example as previously described with respect to any of the Figures 4-15. The implant device
502 is mounted on a carrier 510. The carrier 510 comprises a handle 511 adjacent a proximal
end of the surgical tool 500. The carrier 510 includes a working member 512 connected to the
handle 511. The working member 512 extends from the handle 511 through the internal
passage of the implant device 502 and to a distal end of the surgical tool 500. At the distal
end of the working member 512 is a distal tip 514. The handle 511 may be made of any
convenient material of construction, for example plastic or metallic compositions. The
working member 512 may be made for example of a medical-grade metallic composition,
such as a medical-grade stainless steel. In general when a member is referred to herein as a
"working member", the term indicates that the member is such that at least a portion of the
member is designed for being disposed within or through a fistula when a tool containing the
member is used, for example during formation of a fistula or during performance of some
procedure in or through a fistula. Some examples of working members include various
hollow members (e.g., hypodermic needles, cannulas) and various solid members (e.g.,
trocars, stylets, dilating members, implant delivery members). Such a working member may
be disposed in or through the fistula in a manner that the member contacts tissue in the fistula
or in a manner not to contact tissue in a fistula (e.g., inside of a passage of an implant device
passing through the fistula).
[0104]    With continued to reference to Figure 16, the implant device 502 is mounted on the
carrier 510 with the working member 512 disposed through the internal passage of the
implant device 502. The width of the working member 512 disposed through the internal
passage of the implant device 502 may advantageously be sized to be just smaller than the
internal passage of the implant device for a close fit between them, provided that the fit is not

                                                 42
so tight that the implant device 502 is difficult to slide down the working member 512 toward
the distal tip 514.
[0105]     Continuing to refer to Figure 16, the surgical tool 500 may be used to form a fistula
between the lacrimal system and a paranasal sinus and to facilitate implantation of the
implant device 502 in the fistula. A surgeon may manipulate the surgical tool 500 by hand
grasping the handle 511. The surgeon may advance the distal tip 514 to a location within the
lacrimal apparatus where the fistula is to be formed to a target paranasal sinus. The surgeon
may then force the distal tip through tissue separating the lacrimal apparatus and the target
paranasal sinus to form the fistula. With a leading portion of the working member 512
disposed through the fistula, a surgeon may slide the implant device 502 along the working
member 512 toward the distal tip 514 until the implant device 502 is positioned for
implantation with the conduit 506 disposed through the fistula and a flanged tissue
engagement surface of the head 506 disposed against tissue adjacent the proximal end of the
fistula in the lacrimal apparatus, or the carrier may continue to be advanced to push the
conduit 506 into the fistula. After the implant device 502 is positioned for implantation, the
surgeon may then manipulate the handle 504 to retract the working member 512 to withdraw
the working member from the internal passage of the implant device 502 and to fully
disengage the carrier 510 from the implant device 502, leaving the implant device 502
implanted with the conduit 506 extending through the fistula and into the paranasal sinus.
[0106]     With continued reference to Figure 16, the working member 512 may be a solid
member (e.g., trocar, stylet) or may be a hollow member (e.g., a hollow needle, cutting
cannula). If the working member 512 is a hollow member with an opening at the distal tip
514, then tissue will tend to be cored and collected in the hollow interior of the working
member 512 when the surgical tool 500 is used to form a fistula. If the working member 512
is a solid member, then tissue coring should not occur. In many instances, it may be preferred
to have the working member 512 be a solid member that does not core tissue, because the
implant device may tend to be held more securely within a fistula formed without tissue
coring. The surgical tool 500 shown in Figure 16 is particularly well adapted for forming a
fistula from the orbit subconjunctivally to a paranasal sinus, and particularly when the fistula
is formed at a location in the orbit between the plica semilunaris and the lacrimal caruncle.

                                                 43
[0107]     Figures 17 and 18 show another surgical tool. Figure 17 shows an expanded view of
some features of a surgical tool 520 and Figure 18 shows the same surgical tool 520 as the
surgical tool 520 appears fully assembled. As shown in Figure 17, the surgical tool 520
includes an implant device 522 with a head 524 and a conduit 526, for example as described
previously with respect to any of Figures 3-16. The surgical tool 520 includes a carrier with
two pieces, a first carrier piece 530 and a second carrier piece 532. The first carrier piece 530
has a syringe hub 534 (e.g., for making a luer connection) and a hollow working member 536
(e.g., hollow needle, cannula) connected with the hub 534. The hollow working member 536
has a distal tip 538. The second carrier piece 532 has a handle 540 and a solid working
member 542 (e.g., stylet, trocar) connected with the handle 540. The solid working member
542 has a distal tip 544. As assembled, the surgical tool 520 includes the solid working
member 542 inserted through the interior of the hub 534 and through the hollow interior of
the hollow working member 536. As assembled, the handle 540 of the second carrier piece
532 is disposed distal of the hub 534 with an engagement member 544 inserted into the
interior of the hub 534. As will be appreciated, features of the hub 534 and/or the engagement
member 544 and/or the handle 540 may contain keying and engagement features to align
and/or permit detachable engagement of the first carrier piece and the second carrier piece
when assembled. Figure 18 shows the same surgical tool 520 as it appears fully assembled.
As shown in Figure 18, the first carrier piece 522 and the second carrier piece 532 are
engaged with the solid working member 542 disposed through the hollow interior of the
hollow working member 536.
[0108]     With continued reference to Figures 17 and 18, the surgical tool 520 may be used to
form a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal sinus. The distal tips 538 and
544 of the first and second carrier pieces 530 and 532 form a distal tip that will not
significantly core tissue. A surgeon may grasp the handle 540 and advance the distal tip to a
location in the lacrimal apparatus where the fistula is to be formed (e.g., in the orbit, in the
nasolacrimal duct) and the distal tip may then be forced through tissue into a paranasal sinus
to form the fistula to the target paranasal sinus. With a leading portion of the hollow working
member 536 disposed through the fistula, the implant device 522 may be slid down the
hollow working member 536 and into position for implantation with the conduit 526 disposed
through the fistula and the head 524 disposed adjacent the proximal end of the fistula, or the
hollow working member 536 may be further advanced to push the conduit 526 into the

                                                  44
fistula. The hollow working member 536 may then be retracted and disengaged from the
implant device 522 to leave the implant device 522 in the implanted position.
[0109]     Continuing with reference to Figures 17 and 18, the hollow working member 536
facilitates performance of an ancillary medical procedure involving aspirating fluid from or
introducing fluid into the paranasal sinus. For example, before or after positioning the
implant device 522 in the proper location for implantation, the second carrier piece 532 may
be disengaged from the first carrier piece 534 to remove the solid working member 542 from
the hollow interior of the hollow working member 536. The hollow working member 536 is
then available for aspiration of fluid from or injection of fluid into the paranasal sinus. The
hub 534 may be engaged with a corresponding connection structure of a syringe and the
syringe may be operated to aspirate fluid from the paranasal sinus into the syringe or to inject
fluid from the syringe into the paranasal sinus. Fluids that may be injected into the paranasal
sinus include irrigation fluid or treatment compositions containing a drug, for example to
inject a drug bolus for treatment of sinusitis. As used herein, "fluid" includes flowable
compositions, including compositions that may have a solid material dispersed or suspended
in a fluid medium. After the implant device has been properly positioned for implantation and
after performing any desired ancillary medical procedure, the first carrier pierce may be
retracted to disengage the hollow working member 536 from the internal passage of the
implant device 522 and to leave the implant device 522 as an implant. Figure 19 shows the
first carrier piece 536 of the surgical tool 500 connected with a syringe 550.
[0110]     Referring now to Figures 20-25, some additional examples of surgical procedures
involving forming a fistula and implanting an implant device, and some example surgical
tools for use therewith, will now be described.
[0111]     In Figure 20 a surgical tool in the form of an entry tool 600 is shown in the process
of making a fistula through tissue between the lacrimal caruncle 142 and the plica semilunaris
144. Numbering of anatomical parts is the same as in Figures 1 and 3. The fistula is formed
through tissue between the conjunctival sac in the orbit and the ethmoid sinus 126. The route
for the fistula would be consistent with general fistula route 132 as shown in Figure 3. The
entry tool 600 includes a first piece 602 and a second piece 604. The first piece 602 includes
a hollow working member 606 and a hub 608. The second piece 604 includes a solid working
member (not shown) disposed through a hollow interior of the hollow working member 606.
A distal tip portion of the hollow working member 606 of the first piece 602 and a distal tip

                                                45
portion of the solid working member of the second piece 604 form a distal tip 610 with a
shape suitable for insertion through the tissue to form a fistula from the conjunctival sac to
the ethmoid sinus 126. The second piece 604 includes a hand-manipulable handle 612. The
hub 608 may be configured for connecting with a syringe or other fluid manipulation device,
such as through a luer connection. The handle 612 may be retracted relative to the hub 608 to
remove the solid working member from the interior of the hollow working member 606 and
to disengage the second piece 604 from the first piece 602. As shown in Figure 20, the distal
tip 610 has been advanced from a location in the conjunctival sac between the caruncle 142
and the plica semilunaris 144 to form a fistula between the conjunctival sac and the ethmoid
sinus 126. As shown, the fistula passes behind the caruncle 142, canaliculi 112 and
nasolacrimal duct 116 to access the ethmoid sinus 126. The first piece 602 of the entry tool
600 includes a collar stop 614 to prevent the hollow working member 606 from being
advanced through tissue beyond a certain distance. The first piece 602 and the second piece
604 may, for example, be substantially the same as the first carrier piece 530 and the second
piece 532 of the tool assembly 520 of Figure 17, but with the added collar stop 614 and not
including an implant device mounted thereon.
[0112]    After the entry tool 600 has been used to initially form a fistula to the ethmoid sinus
126, then the second piece 604 may be disengaged from the first piece 602 and a guide wire
inserted through the internal passage through the hollow working member 606. Figure 21
shows the first piece 602 after disengagement of the second piece 604 and after insertion of a
guide wire 620 through the first piece 602 and exiting from a distal end of the first piece 602
in the ethmoid sinus 126. After insertion of the guide wire 620, the first piece 602 may be
retracted and removed from the fistula, leaving the guide wire 620 in place as a guide to and
through the fistula. Figure 22 shows the guide wire 620 disposed through the fistula after
removal of the first piece 602. The guide wire 620 is now available for guiding additional
tools to and through the fistula into the ethmoid sinus 126.
[0113]    With reference now to Figure 23, the guide wire 620 has been used to guide a
surgical tool, in the form of an implant tool 624. The implant tool 624 includes a hollow
working member 626 and a hand-manipulable handle 628. The implant tool 624 includes an
internal passage passing through the handle 628 and the hollow working member 626. As
shown in Figure 23, the guide wire 620 has been threaded through the internal passage of the
implant tool 624 to guide the hollow working member 626 to and through the fistula and into

                                                46
the ethmoid sinus 126. The implant tool 624 also includes an implant device 630 mounted on
the hollow working member 626. Figure 23 shows the implant tool 624 advanced to a point
where the distal end of the implant device 630 is in the vicinity of the proximal end of the
fistula opening into the conjunctival sac. From this position, the implant device 630 may be
advanced into the fistula with a head of the implant device 630 disposed adjacent the
conjunctiva in the conjunctival sac and a distal end of the implant device 630 extending into
the ethmoid sinus 626. The implant tool 624 may, for example, be a tool of the design such as
that shown for the surgical tool 500 in Figure 16, with a hollow needle for the working needle
518. The implant device 630 of the implant tool 624 may, for example, have features as
described with respect to any of Figures 4-19. With the continued reference to Figure 23, the
hollow working member 626 of the tool 624 preferably includes a blunt tip. The handle 628
and the hollow working member 626 form a carrier for the implant device 630. The handle
628 may be retracted and the hollow working member 626 disengaged from the implant
device 630 after the implant device has been appropriately positioned for implantation
through the fistula. As an alternative to the configuration of the implant tool 624 as shown in
Figure 23, the implant tool 624 could be configured to include a hub for connection (e.g.,
through a luer connection) with a syringe of other fluid manipulation device. For example,
the implant tool 624 could be configured with a hub in a manner similar to the configuration
of the first piece 602 shown in Figure 21 and with the implant device appropriately mounted
for implantation. As another variation on the configuration of the implant tool 624, the
working member 626 could be fitted with a collar stop (e.g., as shown in Figure 21) or other
mounting aid against which the implant device 630 could be disposed to provide some
additional distance between a proximal end of the implant device 630 and the handle 628.
Figure 24 shows the implant device 630 as implanted and following disengagement of the
hollow working member 626 of the implant tool 628. As implanted, a head 632 at the
proximal end of the implant device 630 is located adjacent the conjunctiva in the conjunctival
sac within the orbit between the caruncle 142 and the plica semilunaris 144 and the distal end
634 of the implant device 630 is located in the paranasal sinus 626. Some of anchor
protrusions 636 are disposed within the fistula to engage tissue and help anchor the implant
device 630.
[0114]     The procedure as described with reference to Figures 20-24 permits the working
member 606 of the entry tool 600 to have a larger diameter working member 626 to form a
fistula of appropriate size for accommodating the implant device 630 which is then implanted

                                                  47
in a separate step using the implant tool 624 with the implant device 630 carried on to the
working member 626, which may advantageously have a smaller diameter then the working
member 606 used to form the fistula. As an alternative, an intermediate step to dilate the
fistula to a desired size for implantation may be performed between initially forming the
fistula with the entry tool 600 and implanting the implant device 630 using the implant tool
624. Figure 25 shows a surgical tool in the form of a dilator tool 640 having a hollow
working member 642 and a hand-manipulable handle 644. The working member 642 is
disposed through the fistula, guided by the guide wire 620 passing through an internal
passage through the dilator tool 640. As shown in Figure 25, the working member 642 has
been advanced to the point where a stop collar 646 attached to the working member 642 has
engaged conjunctival tissue in the conjunctival sac adjacent a proximal end of the fistula. For
this alternative implementation, the hollow working member 642 of the dilator tool 640
would have a larger diameter than the hollow working member 606 of the entry tool 600
shown in Figures 20 and 21. The hollow working member 642 of the dilator tool 640,
therefore widens the fistula further to a desired size to accommodate easier insertion of the
implant device 630. Although the intermediate step of dilation as shown is not required, it
permits the use of a smaller-diameter working member 606 during initial formation of the
fistula. The use of a smaller diameter for the working member 606 to initially form the fistula
permits better visibility and procedural control for a surgeon performing the procedure. The
working member 642 may preferably include a blunt tip.
[0115]     In a method for providing access to a paranasal sinus to a human to permit
performance of medical treatments or procedures in the paranasal sinus over an extended
time, a surgically formed, durably patent fistula may be created between the lacrimal
apparatus of the human and the paranasal sinus. By surgically formed, it is mean that the
fistula is an artificial passage through tissue that is intentionally formed by a surgical
operation. For example, the fistula may be formed using a trocar, stylet, needle or cannula.
The fistula may be formed by a surgical tool as described with reference to any of Figures 16
19. By "durably patent" it is meant that the fistula is resistant to closure by natural tissue
repair mechanisms and remains open (patent) for an extended period of time to provide
access into the paranasal sinus over the extended period of time. The extended period of time
may be any period of time sufficient for performing through the fistula any desired medical
treatments or procedures. The extended period of time may, for example, be at least 7 days, at

                                                  48
least 14 days, at least 30 days, at least 180 days, or longer. The extended period may be
permanent.
[0116]     A fistula may be maintained as durably patent for an extended period of time by a
variety of techniques. As one example for maintaining fistula patency, an implant device may
be disposed through the fistula to prevent the fistula from closing, and the implant device
may include an internal passage for providing access through the fistula into the paranasal
sinus. When access to the paranasal sinus is no longer required, the implant device may be
removed to permit tissue to repair and close the fistula. The implant device may, for example,
have a configuration as described with respect to any of Figures 4-19 or may have a different
configuration. As another example for maintaining fistula patency, the fistula may be formed
initially with a relatively large diameter, and preferably with a clean cut. A large, cleanly cut
hole will naturally tend to remain patent and not repair for at least a significant time. The
relatively large diameter of the fistula may, for example be at least 2 millimeters or larger, as
described above. When the fistula is formed with such a large diameter, the fistula will
preferably be formed at a location in the nasolacrimal duct. As another example for
maintaining fistula patency, after the fistula is formed the tissue adjacent the fistula may be
mechanically treated to form a mechanical impediment to tissue repair that would close the
fistula. The mechanical treatment could involve, for example over-sewing tissue adjacent the
fistula or stapling tissue adjacent the fistula to mechanically retain the tissue in a manner to
inhibit tissue repair that would close the fistula. As another example for maintaining fistula
patency, tissue adjacent the fistula may be treated with a substance (e.g., a drug) effective to
inhibit natural tissue repair and closure of the fistula, such as for example treatment with an
antigranulation or anti-scarring agent (e.g., steroids, Mitomycin C).
[0117]     A variety of medical treatments and procedures may be performed through a fistula
formed between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal sinus, whether or not the fistula is
durably patent. One or more medical devices may be inserted into the paranasal sinus through
the fistula. For example a hollow working member (e.g., hollow needle, cannula) may be
inserted through the fistula into the paranasal sinus to permit aspiration of fluid from or
injection of a treatment formulation (e.g., drug formulation, irrigation fluid) into the paranasal
sinus. As another example, a treatment formulation (e.g., drug formulation, irrigation fluid)
may be transmitted through the fistula into the paranasal sinus by natural flow from the
lacrimal system. A treatment formulation may be administered to the vicinity of the eye (e.g.,

                                                 49
as eye drops) to naturally flow from the lacrimal apparatus through the fistula and into the
paranasal sinus. The fistula may, but need not necessarily be, a durably patent fistula. For
example, a conduit of a medical device be inserted from the lacrimal apparatus through tissue
and into the paranasal sinus, fluid may be aspirated through or injected from the conduit, and
the conduit may then be removed to allow the fistula formed by insertion of the conduit to
quickly repair. Such a conduit may, for example, be a hypodermic needle or cannula (e.g.,
connected to a syringe, drip system or other fluid injection/aspiration system). The fistula
may be formed by insertion of a member including the needle or cannula and may naturally
repair and close quickly following removal of the conduit. For example, the fistula may be
formed by insertion of a hypodermic needle, a fluid may be injected or aspirated through the
hypodermic needle and the hypodermic needle may then be removed to permit the fistula to
repair. As another example, the fistula may be formed by a trocar/cannula assembly, the
trocar may then be removed, a medical procedure performed through the cannula (e.g., fluid
injection or aspiration), and the cannula may then be removed to permit the fistula to repair.
As another example, the fistula may be formed by a cutting cannula, a medical procedure
performed through the cannula (e.g., fluid injection or aspiration), and the cannula may then
be removed to permit the fistula to repair.
[0118]    A surgically created, durably patent fistula may be advantageously located for
transmitting lacrimal fluid (tears) to a paranasal sinus. Lacrimal fluid from the lacrimal
apparatus may be permitted to drain into the paranasal sinus. In one preferred implantation,
the surgically-created, durably patent fistula is from either the orbit or the nasolacrimal duct
to either the ethmoid sinus or the maxillary sinus, with a fistula route from the orbit being
more preferred.
[0119]     The foregoing discussion of the invention and different aspects thereof has been
presented for purposes of illustration and description. The foregoing is not intended to limit
the invention to only the form or forms specifically disclosed herein. Consequently,
variations and modifications commensurate with the above teachings, and the skill or
knowledge of the relevant art, are within the scope of the present invention. The
embodiments described hereinabove are further intended to explain best modes known for
practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such,
or other, embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular applications
or uses of the present invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to

                                                  50
include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art. Although the
description of the invention has included description of one or more possible implementations
and certain variations and modifications, other variations and modifications are within the
scope of the invention, e.g., as may be within the skill and knowledge of those in the art after
understanding the present disclosure. It is intended to obtain rights which include alternative
embodiments to the extent permitted, including alternate, interchangeable and/or equivalent
structures, functions, ranges or steps to those claimed, whether or not such alternate,
interchangeable and/or equivalent structures, functions, ranges or steps are disclosed herein,
and without intending to publicly dedicate any patentable subject matter. Furthermore, any
feature described or claimed with respect to any disclosed implementation may be combined
in any combination with one or more of any other features of any other implementation or
implementations, to the extent that the features are not necessarily technically incompatible,
and all such combinations are within the scope of the present invention.
[0120]     The terms "comprising", "containing", "including" and "having", and grammatical
variations of those terms, are intended to be inclusive and nonlimiting in that the use of such
terms indicates the presence of some condition or feature, but not to the exclusion of the
presence also of any other condition or feature. The use of the terms "comprising",
"containing", "including" and "having", and grammatical variations of those terms in
referring to the presence of one or more components, subcomponents or materials, also
include and is intended to disclose the more specific embodiments in which the term
"comprising", "containing", "including" or "having" (or the variation of such term) as the
case may be, is replaced by any of the narrower terms "consisting essentially of or "consisting
of or "consisting of only" (or the appropriate grammatical variation of such narrower terms).
For example, a statement that some thing "comprises" a stated element or elements is also
intended to include and disclose the more specific narrower embodiments of the thing
"consisting essentially of the stated element or elements, and the thing "consisting of the
stated element or elements. Examples of various features have been provided for purposes of
illustration, and the terms "example", "for example" and the like indicate illustrative
examples that are not limiting and are not to be construed or interpreted as limiting a feature
or features to any particular example. The term "at least" followed by a number (e.g., "at least
one") means that number or more than that number. The term at "at least a portion" means all
or a portion that is less than all. The term "at least a part" means all or a part that is less than
all.

                                              51
                                          CLAIMS
   An implant device for implantation in a human to fluidly connect a location in the
   lacrimal apparatus in the orbit to a paranasal sinus through a fistula formed between the
   lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and the paranasal sinus, the implant device comprising:
             a proximal end at a first longitudinal end of the device to be disposed in the
   lacrimal apparatus in the orbit when the implant device is implanted;
             a distal end at a second longitudinal end of the device that is longitudinally
   opposite the first longitudinal end to be disposed in the paranasal sinus when the
   implant device is implanted;
             a conduit extending from adjacent the proximal end to adjacent the distal end;
             an internal passage extending between the proximal end and the distal end and
   through the conduit, the internal passage having a first end open at the proximal end
   and a second end open at the distal end;
             a length of the device longitudinally along the device between the proximal
   end and the distal end in a range of from 8 millimeters to 50 millimeters;
             a width of the internal passage transverse to the length in a range of from 0.25
   millimeter to 5 millimeters; and
             an exterior of the conduit comprising an anchoring surface feature to engage
   tissue in the fistula to anchor the implant device when the implant device is implanted,
   the anchoring surface feature including recess areas and protrusion areas, wherein the
   protrusion areas are disposed only on a longitudinal portion of the conduit with a said
   protrusion area nearest to the proximal end of the implant device being disposed at least
   4 millimeters from the proximal end of the implant device.
2. An implant device according to Claim 1, wherein the protrusion areas have a height
   relative to the recess areas in a range of from 0.2 millimeter to 0.75 millimeter.
3. An implant device according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the protrusion areas
   comprise multiple protrusion occurrences spaced on the exterior of the conduit.
4. An implant device according to Claim 3, wherein the protrusion occurrences have a
   center-to-center spacing in a range of from 1 millimeter to 2 millimeters
5. An implant device according to Claim 3 or Claim 4, wherein each said protrusion
   occurrence has a base toward the internal passage and a top opposite the base and away

                                              52
    from the internal passage; and
             the at least one protrusion occurrence has a tapered portion with a width that
    narrows in a direction from the base toward the top.
6.  An implant device according to Claim 3 or Claim 4, wherein each said protrusion
    occurrence has a base toward the internal passage and a top opposite the base and away
    from the internal passage; and
             the at least one protrusion occurrence has a width at the base that is in a range
    of from 0.2 millimeter to 1 millimeter.
7.  An implant device according to any one of Claims 3 to 6, wherein each said protrusion
    occurrence comprises a circumferential ridge extending around an entire circumference
    of the conduit.
8.  An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 7, wherein the longitudinal
    portion of the conduit extends from the proximal end of the longitudinal portion for at
    least 5 millimeters along the length of the implant device to a distal end of the
    longitudinal portion at the most distant said protrusion area from the proximal end of
    the implant device.
9.  An implant device according to Claim 8, wherein the longitudinal portion of the
    conduit extends for at least 8 millimeters along the length of the device between the
    proximal end of the longitudinal portion and the distal end of the longitudinal portion.
10. An implant device according to Claim 8 or Claim 9, wherein the protrusion areas cover
    no more than 25 percent of exterior surface area along the longitudinal portion of the
    conduit between the proximal end and distal end of the longitudinal portion of the
    conduit.
11. An implant device according to any one of Claims 1 to 10, wherein the protrusion areas
    are configured to flexibly deform when contacting the tissue exposed in the fistula
    when the conduit is inserted through the fistula for implantation.
12. An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 11, wherein the protrusion areas
    comprise at least 3 spaced circumferential ridges, with each said circumferential ridge
    extending around an entire circumference of the conduit.

                                             53
13. An implant device according to Claim 12, comprising at least 5 of the circumferential
    ridges.
14. An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 11, wherein the protrusion areas
    comprise knobs.
15. An implant device according to any one of Claims 1 to 11, wherein the protrusion areas
    comprise a spiral ridge.
16. An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 11, wherein the anchoring
    surface feature comprises a textured surface, wherein the protrusion areas comprise
    protruding portions of the textured surface and the recess areas comprise recessed
    portions of the textured surface.
17. An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 16, wherein the conduit has an
    exterior width defined by an extent of the protrusion areas transverse to the length that
    is within a range of from 1.5 millimeters to 3 millimeters.
18. An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 17, wherein the conduit has a
    length in a range of from 8 millimeters to 30 millimeters.
19. An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 18, wherein the conduit is
    constructed of polymeric material having a durometer (Shore A) in a range of from 50
    to 100.
20. An implant device according to Claim 19, wherein the polymeric material is silicone.
21. An implant device according to Claim 19, wherein the polymeric material is
    polyurethane.
22. An implant device according to any one of Claims I to 21, comprising a plurality of
    apertures through a wall of the conduit providing fluid communication from outside of
    the conduit to the internal passage through the conduit, and wherein at least some of the
    apertures are located along the length at least 5 millimeters from the proximal end.
23. An implant device according to any one of Claims 1 to 22, wherein:
             the protrusion areas comprise protrusion occurrences having a center-to- center
    spacing in a range of 0.75 millimeter to 2 millimeters;

                                                54
              the longitudinal portion of the conduit extends from the proximal end of the
    for at least 5 millimeters along the length of the device to a distal end of the
    longitudinal portion at the most distant said protrusion area from the proximal end of
    the implant device;
              the protrusion areas are constructed of polymeric material having a durometer
    (Shore A) in a range of from 50 to 100;
              the conduit has a length in a range of from 8 millimeters to 30 millimeters; and
              the conduit has an exterior width defined by an extent of the protrusion areas
    transverse to the length that is within a range of from 1.5 millimeters to 3 millimeters.
24. An implant device according to Claim 23, wherein:
              the implant device is configured to be implanted by pushing the implant device
    into the fistula to advance the conduit through the fistula to an implantation position;
              the protrusion areas have a height relative to the recess areas in a range of from
    0.2 millimeter to 0.75 millimeter; and
              the protrusion areas are configured to flexibly deform when contacting the
    tissue exposed in the fistula when the implant device is pushed to advance the conduit
    through the fistula to the implantation position.
25. An implant device according to any one of Claims 1 to 24, wherein the device is
    implanted in a human with the conduit passing through a fistula between the lacrimal
    apparatus in the orbit and the paranasal sinus and with the proximal end of the implant
    device located within the lacrimal apparatus in the orbit and the distal end of the
    implant device located within the paranasal sinus.
26. An implant device according to Claim 25, wherein the distal end is located in a
    paranasal sinus selected from the group consisting of an ethmoid sinus, maxillary sinus
    and a frontal sinus.
27. A surgical tool, comprising:
              an implant device according to any one of Claims 1 to 24;
              a carrier comprising:
                       a member with a distal tip, the member adapted to be disposed through
                       a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal sinus with the
              distal tip located in the paranasal sinus; and

                                                55
                       a hand-manipulable handle connected to the member;
              wherein the implant device is mounted on the carrier between the handle and
    the distal tip with the member disposed through the internal passage and with the
    proximal end of the implant device disposed toward the handle and the distal end of the
    implant device disposed toward the distal tip; and
              wherein the carrier is disengageable from the implant device for implant
    placement of the implant device disposed through the fistula.
28. A surgical tool according to Claim 27, wherein the member is hollow member.
29.   A surgical tool according to Claim 28, wherein the carrier comprises an internal
    passage extending through the handle and the member and through which a guide wire
    is passable to help guide the carrier to a location where the implant device is to be
    implanted.
30. A surgical tool according to Claim 29, comprising a said guide wire disposed through
    the internal passage of the carrier.
31. A surgical tool according to any one of Claims 27 to 30, wherein the distal tip is located
    at least 0.5 centimeter from the distal end of the implant device.
32. A surgical tool according to any one of Claims 27 to 31, wherein the distal tip is located
    not more than 7 centimeters from the proximal end of the implant device.
33. A kit comprising:
              a first surgical tool configured to form an initial fistula;
              an implant device according to any one of Claims 1 to 24; and
              a carrier, the carrier including a member with a distal tip, the member being
    adapted to be disposed through a fistula between the lacrimal apparatus and a paranasal
    sinus with the distal tip located in the paranasal sinus and the carrier including a hand
    manipulable handle connected to the member;
    wherein:
              the implant device is mountable on the carrier between the handle and the
    distal tip with the member disposed through the internal passage and with a proximal
    end of the implant device disposed toward the handle and a distal end of the implant
    device disposed toward the distal tip of the member; and

                                             56
              when the implant device is mounted on the carrier, the carrier is disengageable
    from the implant device for implant placement of the implant device disposed through
    the fistula.
34. A kit according to Claim 33, wherein the carrier has an internal passage extending
    through the handle and the member.
35. A kit according to Claim 34, comprising a guide wire that is passable through the
    internal passage to help guide the carrier to a location where the implant device is to be
    implanted in a fistula.
36. A kit according to any one of Claims 33 to 35, wherein the distal tip of the member is
    blunt.
37. A kit according to any one of Claims 33 to 36, comprising a treatment composition
    including a drug for treating a paranasal sinus.
38. A kit according to Claim 37, comprising a syringe containing the treatment
    composition.
39. A kit according to Claim 37 or Claim 38, wherein the treatment composition includes at
    least one drug selected from the group consisting of anti-inflammatories,
    antimicrobials, analgesics, mucolytics, antivirals, decongestants, steroids,
    antihistamines, antibiotics and anti-fungals.
40. A kit according to any one of Claims 37 to 39, wherein the treatment composition
    comprises an antibiotic and at least one drug selected from the group consisting of
    steroids and antihistamines.

<removed-date>
                    <U+2736> <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2736> <U+2702>
                                           <U+2736><U+2736>
                                                        <U+2736><U+2736><U+2739>
                                                  <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2736> <U+2739>                           <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
                                      <U+2736><U+2736>
                                                              <U+2736><U+2736><U+273B>
                          <U+2736> <U+273B>

       <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
      <U+2736><U+2701><U+273B>
<U+2736><U+2701><U+2739>
               <U+2736><U+2701><U+2701>
               <U+2736><U+2701><U+2701>
<U+2736><U+2701><U+2739>
      <U+2736><U+2701><U+273B>

<removed-date>
              <U+2736> <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2736> <U+2702>     <U+2736><U+2701><U+2701>
                                             <U+2736><U+2736>
                                              <U+2736><U+2736>           <U+2736><U+2736><U+2739>
                                                    <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
                                  <U+2736><U+2739><U+2739>
                                             <U+2736><U+2739><U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2736><U+2736><U+273B>
                                                          <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
                                                   <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2736> <U+2739>                                                     <U+2736><U+2701><U+273B>
                                        <U+2736><U+2736>
                            <U+2736><U+2736><U+2739>
                                              <U+2736><U+2736><U+273B>
                    <U+2736> <U+273B>
                                  <U+2736><U+2701><U+2739>                           <U+2736><U+2736><U+2702>
                                              <U+2736><U+2739>

<removed-date>
              <U+2704>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2737>
<removed-apn>        <U+2737>
                  <U+2737>
                      <U+2704>
                      <U+2737>
                          <U+2737>
                          <U+2737>
                                                      <U+260E>
                              <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2737>
                              <U+2737>
                                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2737>
                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2737>
                                      <U+2737>
                                          <U+2704>
                                          <U+2737>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2737>

<removed-date>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2737>
<removed-apn>                        <U+2737>
                                  <U+2737>
                                      <U+2704>
                                      <U+2737>
                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
              <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2737>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2737>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2737>
                                          <U+2704>
                                          <U+2737>
                              <U+2737>
                              <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2737>
                      <U+2737>
                  <U+2737>
                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2737>

                       <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
            <U+2701><U+2736><U+2701>
      <U+2701><U+2736><U+2702>                         <U+2701>
                  <U+2701><U+2736>      <U+2701> <U+273B>
<U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>
                                <U+2701><U+2736><U+2702>
            <U+2701><U+2701>

<removed-date>
                               <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2701><U+2736><U+273B>
              <U+2701><U+2701>
                                           <U+2701><U+2736><U+2739>
                                                   <U+2701>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2736><U+2701>
                                                       <U+2701><U+2736><U+2739>
                   <U+2701> <U+273B>
                         <U+2701><U+2736><U+273B>

<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2739><U+2701>     <U+2701><U+2739><U+2739>        <U+2701><U+2739><U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701><U+2739><U+2739>
<removed-apn>
                                                                      <U+2701><U+2739><U+273B>
              <U+2701><U+2739>                            <U+2701><U+2739><U+2739>               <U+2701><U+2739><U+2702>
                                      <U+2701><U+2739><U+2701>
                    <U+2701><U+2737><U+2701>
                                <U+2701><U+2737><U+2739>
                                                                        <U+2701><U+2737><U+273B>
               <U+2701><U+2737>         <U+2701><U+2737><U+2739>                                   <U+2701><U+2737><U+2702>
                                                        <U+2701><U+2737><U+2701>

                    <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
    <U+274D>       <U+274D>       <U+274D>                      <U+274D>
                <U+2772>                <U+2772>
<U+2772>       <U+2772>

                        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
<U+25B2>
        <U+25B2>       <U+25B2>                    <U+25B2>
    <U+2772>       <U+2772>       <U+2772>                            <U+2772>

<removed-date>
                                      <U+2701>
                                          <U+2737>
                      <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2701>
                          <U+2737>
              <U+2737>
                  <U+2737>
                              <U+2704>
                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>

<removed-date>               <U+2736><U+2736><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2736><U+2701><U+2701>
                                      <U+2736> <U+273B>
                                                  <U+2736>
              <U+2736><U+2736><U+273B>
                                            <U+2736><U+2736>
                                            <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
                    <U+2736><U+2701><U+2701>

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      <U+2736><U+2737>
           <U+2736><U+2737><U+2739>
<U+2736><U+2737><U+2701>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2739> <U+2701>
                                             <U+2739>
                          <U+2739><U+2736><U+2739>   <U+2739><U+2736><U+2701>
                                                 <U+2739><U+2736><U+2737>   <U+2739><U+2736>   <U+2739><U+2736><U+2737>   <U+2739><U+2736><U+2737>   <U+2739> <U+2739>
                                 <U+2739><U+2736><U+2739>   <U+2739><U+2736><U+2701>
                                                 <U+2739> <U+2702>
                    <U+2739> <U+273B>

                                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+273A>
                                                <U+273A>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>
                <U+273A>   <U+2701>
                                    <U+273A>   <U+2701>   <U+2737>
                                                            <U+273A>   <U+260E>
    <U+273A>   <U+2701>   <U+2704>
                        <U+273A>   <U+2701>
                                <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+273A>   <U+2704>

<removed-date>
                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                          <U+273A>
<removed-apn>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2737>
                                                          <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                              <U+2737>
                                          <U+273A>
                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2737>
                                  <U+273A>
                                      <U+2704>
                                      <U+2704>
                                      <U+273A>
                              <U+2737>
                              <U+2704>
                              <U+273A>
                          <U+2704>
                          <U+2704>
                          <U+273A>
                  <U+2737>
              <U+2701>
                      <U+2737>
              <U+2704>
                  <U+273A>
              <U+273A>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                              <U+273A>
                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2737>
                  <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2737>
                  <U+273A>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                      <U+273A>
                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+2737>
                      <U+2704>
                              <U+273A>
                          <U+2737>
                      <U+273A>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2737>
                                              <U+273A>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2704>
              <U+273A>
                                      <U+2737>
                                          <U+2737>
                                      <U+273A>

                                    <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
<U+273A>   <U+273A>   <U+2701>
                        <U+273A>       <U+2704>
                            <U+2737>
            <U+273A>       <U+2701>
                <U+2737>
                                          <U+273A>   <U+2737>   <U+2737>
                                                      <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2737>   <U+2702>

<removed-date>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2702>                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                      <U+2704>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2737>
              <U+2701>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                  <U+2702>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2702>
                                              <U+2737>
                      <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2702>
                      <U+2701>
                          <U+2702>

<removed-date>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                              <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                              <U+2737>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                          <U+2704>
              <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                      <U+2737>
                      <U+2701>
                          <U+2702>
                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2737>
                                      <U+2702>

                                                <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
    <U+2737>   <U+2701>
<U+2702>
                                        <U+2737>
                            <U+2704>       <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+2737>   <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                <U+2737>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2702>
                    <U+2704>   <U+2704>
            <U+2701>   <U+2704>
                                            <U+2702>

<removed-date>                                               <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2737>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                              <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+2737>
                                              <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+2737>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+2737>
                                              <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
              <U+2704>
              <U+2737>
                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2737>
                                      <U+2702>
                      <U+2701>
                      <U+2737>
                          <U+2702>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>          <U+273B><U+2736><U+2701>
                           <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
                                  <U+273B><U+2736><U+273B>
                          <U+2736><U+2739><U+2701>             <U+273B><U+2736>
                                               <U+273B><U+2736><U+2739>
                          <U+2736><U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2736> <U+2739> <U+2736><U+2739><U+2739>                   <U+2736><U+2701><U+273B>
                            <U+2736><U+2736><U+273B>

<removed-date>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2737>
<removed-apn>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                          <U+2704>
                          <U+2702>
                      <U+2704>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+2701>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2704>
                                      <U+2702>
                                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+2737>
                                              <U+2702>

