                                          ABSTRACT
          An example method includes acquiring two-dimensional (2D) or three-dimensional
(3D) digital images of a rock sample. The method also includes selecting a subsample within the
digital images. The method also includes deriving a trend or petrophysical property for the
subsample. The method also includes applying the trend or petrophysical property to a larger
scale portion of the digital images.

                                        5/10
  Acquired image (e.g., 2D area, 3D volume)           Fig. 6B
602
  Image pre-processing (e.g., noise removal)
604 "
               Image segmentation
606"I
    Define statistically large number of sub
   samples with identical size, their position,
           and properties to measure
608                        I
 Compute primary properties insub-samples
610
    Collect primary properties and perform
                statistical analysis
612
    Select/sort sub-samples based on their
               statistical properties
614
 Compute desired properties in sub-samples
616
           Relate computed properties
618
    Derive mathematical expression of the
        relationship between properties
620
   Compare expression and/or statistics with
                 previous iteration
622
                       CrteihsbenNo              Enlarge sub-samples
    624                satisfied?
                              Yes               626
         Obtain final relationships/trends
628

     DIGITAL ROCK PHYSICS-BASED TREND DETERMINATION AND USAGE FOR
                                             UPSCALING
           This application is a divisional application of Australian         Patent Application No
2015241030, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           The present application claims priority to U.S. Pat. App. 61/972,983 titled "Digital Rock
Physics-Based Trend Determination and Usage for Upscaling", filed March 31, 2014 by inventors
Radompon Sungkom, Jonas Toelke, Yaoming Mu, Carl Sisk, and Avrami Grader, which is
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                           BACKGROUND
           The relationships (also termed "trends") between petrophysical properties such as porosity,
permeability, formation factor, elastic properties, relative permeability, and capillary pressure, are
useful for various geological and engineering applications (Nelson, 1994), and are regarded as
crucial to the to accurate characterization and evaluation of rocks/reservoirs, by which a thorough
understanding is achieved. However, many factors such as degree of heterogeneity, rock formation,
pore geometry, grain size, packing and solution/dissolution, cause the trends to vary in a complex
manner (Ma and Morrow, 1996).
           Scientists and engineers have employed various experimental approaches to establish
trends (see, e.g. Ma & Morrow, 1996, Ehrenberg & Nadeau, 2005, Weibel et al., 2012, Vik et al.,
2013, Torabi et al., 2013). The data resulting from these approaches generally has a large amount of
scatter and deviation that make it difficult to discern any well-defined trends (Weibel et al., 2012).
Additionally, such experiments often require weeks and large number of samples to establish a
statistically meaningful trend, and consequently are vulnerable to experimental errors and
difficulties.
           Such issues can be avoided with the use of digital rock physics (DRP), which employs
advanced imaging technologies, such as microscopy and spectroscopy, to construct a digital
representation of the rock or other material at a chosen level of magnification and resolution. The
digital representation includes, but is not limited to, a two- or three-dimensional image of a sample
of the material. Computerized analysis techniques may then be applied to the acquired image to
visualize the internal structure and/or to characterize the material. Depending on the analysis, a
number of characteristic properties are measured, quantified, and inter-related. Even in the absence
                                                    1

of experimental error, however, existing analysis techniques fail to suitably account for
heterogeneities and other complicating factors that make it difficult to discern meaningful trends.
         Moreover, while some useful characterization and conclusions may be derived from
analysis of samples that can be directly magnified and imaged, the scale of a reservoir and its
component formations is much too large to be directly imaged and analyzed. Nor is it feasible to
perform a sufficient number of experiments on a large enough scale to extract trend information.
Yet the importance of such large scale trend information to accurate reservoir evaluation and
forecasting cannot be overemphasized. The main complicating factor for the determination of such
trend information is the high degree of structural heterogeneity that is present in most reservoir
rocks (Worthington, 2004), i.e. such rocks include more than one typical pore size and structure.
         Numerous upscaling techniques for predicting large scale petrophysical properties from
sample-derived trend information have been presented in the literature. A majority of these
techniques are restricted to the study of the single-phase permeability of a porous material. For
example, Durlofsky (Durlofsky, 2005) compared a variety of approaches for gridding and
upscaling geocellular models for flow simulation. Khalili et al. (Khalili et al., 2012) established
porosity transforms between high-resolution (small scale) and low-resolution (large scale) images
to calibrate a low resolution porosity map, which can then be used to populate permeability on the
low-resolution image. Renormalization schemes for upscaling have been proposed by Green &
Paterson (Green & Paterson, 2007) and Krabbenhoft & Karim (Krabbenhoft & Karim, 2010). The
conclusion of each of the studies above are similar: the results are sensitive to property contrasts,
i.e., the range between the lowest and highest values, which depends strongly on the degree of
heterogeneity of the porous material. More importantly, they found that the translation between
large-scale and small-scale sample permeability varies greatly from sample to sample. In at least
some cases, the large-scale sample tends to have a higher permeability that would be predicted by
the small scale sample (Ehrenberg, 2007). Clearly, the existing methods fail to sufficiently resolve
the relevant petrophysical properties in a manner suitable for upscaling.
                                                 2

                                              SUMMARY
         Accordingly, there is presented herein a statistical analysis method that, when applied to a
digital representation of a rock, extracts a maximum amount of trend information, including the
identification of heterogeneous regions of the sample and trend information associated therewith.
Consequently multiple trends may be obtained from a given sample. Such additional trend
information also enables a novel upscaling method that better transforms small scale trend
information to larger scales by accounting for the heterogeneity found at each scale. The upscaling
method is expressible in a recursive form to enable upscaling to occur at multiple scales so that,
for example, reservoir-scale information might be derived from sample information obtained at
sub-millimeter scales. With such information, reservoirs can be more accurately evaluated and
produced.
                                   BRIEF DRAWING DESCRIPTION
         Figs. lA-1B show an illustrative relationship of two- and three-dimensional samples to
multiple subsamples.
         Fig. 2 shows an illustrative (single-component) trend.
         Figs. 3A-3D show illustrative uni- and multi-mode distributions of one and more variables.
         Fig. 4A shows a multi-mode distribution that is a mixture of multiple single-mode
distributions.
         Fig. 4B shows the mapping of distribution components to spatial entities.
         Fig. 5 shows an illustrative multi-component trend.
         Figs. 6A-6B are flow diagrams of illustrative trend determination methods.
         Fig. 7 shows sample images taken at multiple scales.
         Figs. 8A-8D show an illustrative upscaling procedure.
         Fig. 9 relates images of two different scales.
         Figs. 1OA-1OD shows a second illustrative upscaling procedure.
         Fig. 11 is an illustrative imaging system.
         Fig. 12 is an illustrative computer system for implementing the disclosed methods.
                                                    3

                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         Fig. 1A shows a two-dimensional digital representation of a material, while Fig. 1B shows
a three-dimensional digital representation. These representations are hereafter referred to as
images. While it is possible to use raw images, the disclosed methods are facilitated by classifying
each pixel as one of multiple phases, e.g., pore space, solid. Some embodiments may include
additional phases indicating intermediate levels of porosity between open pore space and fully
filled solid space, e.g., low density porous matrix, high density porous matrix. Within each image,
a number of subsample positions are selected. The selection may be made randomly or
systematically, and in an overlapping or non-overlapping fashion. Typically, the subsample
regions are square (for two-dimensional images) or cubes (for three-dimensional images).
         The method then determines the properties of interest for each subsample. Properties
commonly subjected to trend analysis in the petroleum industry are porosity vs. permeability,
porosity vs. formation factor, and permeability vs. formation factor. The property measurements
for all subsamples are then collected and analyzed to discern trend information. Fig. 2 shows a
crossplot of two properties that suggests the presence of a trend, and further shows a parameterized
curve that might be fit to the points representing the properties for each subsample. In at least some
embodiments, the extracted trend information is presented in a mathematical form expressing the
relationship between two properties.
         Due to its computerized implementation, the digital rock physics (DRP) approach offers a
way to generate trends in fast, safe, and repeatable fashion. Most importantly, owing to the use of
subsampling, trends can be generated with far fewer samples than most experimental methods,
possibly as few as one sample. However, existing DRP methods assume that the sample is
relatively homogeneous sample, i.e. the properties can be represented using unimodal distribution
such as that shown in Fig. 3A or 3C. Consequently, these method yield only one trend for each
sample (Ramstad et al., 2010, Khalili et al., 2012, Khalili et al., 2013, De Prisco et al., 2013) and
inevitably fail to properly characterize relatively heterogeneous samples.
         As most formation rocks/reservoirs possess a high degree of heterogeneity, this
circumstance creates difficulties. Bimodal distributions, such as those shown in Fig. 3B or 3D,
trimodal distributions, or even higher, are typical. It would be desirable to have a trend analysis
method that properly accounts for the heterogeneity and complexity of most samples. The
proposed method accomplishes this by treating the property measurement distribution as a mixture
                                                   4

of component distributions and subjecting the overall distribution to a statistical analysis that
extracts the component distributions.
         For example, Fig. 4A shows a trimodal distribution that is expressible as a weighted sum
of three unimodal distributions. The statistical analysis determines the number of components, the
position of each component, the size (variance) of each component, and the fraction (weight) of
each component. (Suitable statistical analysis methods are discussed further below.) Once each
component is identified, the points associated with that distribution may be determined, enabling
the individual distributions to be mapped to the corresponding subsample positions as indicated in
Fig. 4B. Note that the subsamples associated with a given component need not be contiguous.
         Having identified the components and their associated subsamples, a separate trend
analysis may be performed for each component, as indicated in Fig. 5. A parameterized curve may
be fit to the measurement points of each given component. Note that the fit of a single curve to the
full set of measurement points would have obscured the sample's heterogeneity.
         Fig. 6A is a flow diagram of an illustrative trend determination method. In block 602, the
method obtains a two dimensional or three dimensional image of a sample. In block 604, the image
is pre-processed to remove noise and other artifacts of the imaging process. In block 606, the image
is segmented, meaning that each pixel of the image is classified in to one of multiple possible
categories, including at least pore (open space) and solid (filled spaced), and depending on
resolution at the chosen magnification, possibly further including matrix phases of intermediate
porosities between the two extremes.
         In block 608, the method determines a statistically large number of subsamples, selecting
their locations in a random or systematic and overlapping or non-overlapping fashion. Given the
anticipated heterogeneity of the sample, it is desirable to have the density of subsample locations
spread relatively evenly throughout the sample. The statistical largeness can be determined using
well known statistical principles such as confidence levels and confidence intervals, or if feasible,
the method may simply position the subsample locations to achieve complete (and possibly
overlapping) coverage of the sample. The size of the sub-samples may be selected arbitrarily or
systematically (see, e.g. De Prisco et al., 2013) depending on the desired scale of information.
         In block 610, the method computes the selected primary properties for each subsample.
Examples of primary properties include porosity, pore structure, composition of porous matrices,
and the computation may provide measurement of one or more such properties. In block 612, the
                                                   5

distributions of the computed primary properties are determined and analyzed. Such distributions
are typically multi-modal due to the typical sample's level of complexity and heterogeneity, and
if multiple properties are measured, the distribution is multivariate. (Figs. 3A-3D are examples of
unimodal and multimodal as well as univariate and multivariate distributions.)
         Suitable statistical analyses are those that can be applied to uni- or multi-modal and/or uni
or multi-variate distributions to determine the number of component distributions and the
parameters associated with each. The analysis of a multimodal distribution should not result in
only one mean value and standard deviation value, but rather it should yield a set of means,
standard deviations, and relative weighting for each of multiple component distributions presented
in the sample. The number of distributions indicates the number of distinct regions characterized
by the chosen primary properties. Accordingly, regions with different characteristics can be
identified within the sample by associating each individual subsample with a corresponding
distribution and thereby mapping the distributions to specific locations in the image (block 614).
It is possible for distinct regions to share a common distribution. For more information regarding
property distribution analysis options, reference may be had to Radompon Sungkorn et al.,
"Representative Elementary Volume Determination Via Clustering-Based Statistics", Atty.
Docket No. INGRA-011B, PCT Application Serial Number                          and filed          , and
hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
         In block 616, the method processes the subsamples associated with each component
distribution in turn, to determine the desired secondary properties of those subsamples. Examples
of secondary properties include permeability, formation factor, capillary pressure and relative
permeability. Various numerical techniques such as finite volume method (FVM), finite element
method (FEM) and lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) can be used for the computation of these
properties.
         For each given component distribution, the method associates the secondary property
measurements with the primary property measurements (block 618) and applies a regression
analysis to determine the relationships (block 620) between the primary and secondary properties.
For example, one commonly used trend analysis employs a linear least square regression technique
with a power function (y=axb+c) to derive the relationship between porosity and permeability. Fig.
5 shows an example of a system with three distinct structures/patterns (i.e. tri-modal distribution
                                                     6

having three component distributions). The relationships between property I and property II are
analyzed separately for each structures, yielding three trends for the sample.
         The trends identified by the method of Fig. 6A are expected to vary based on the subsample
size. If it is desired to obtain trends that are relatively insensitive to subsample size, the method
may be augmented as shown in Fig. 6B to find trends associated with the representative elementary
volume (REV). Blocks 602-620 are the same as in Fig. 6A. Blocks 622-628 are added to provide
a loop in which the trends are found for multiple subsample sizes. In block 622, the parameters of
the mathematical expression (e.g., a, b, c, of the regression function y=axb+c) for each trend are
compared to those of the previous loop iteration. If no previous iteration was performed, or if the
parameters or the number of trends do not match the previous iteration, a decision is made in block
624 to repeat the loop. The method enlarges the subsample size in block 626 and blocks 610-624
are repeated with the new subsample size. Once a match is detected (indicating that the trends have
converged to stability), the method outputs the trend information and the minimum corresponding
subsample size in block 628. As an alternative to comparing expression parameters for the
convergence test, the method may compare parameters of the component distributions identified
by the analysis in block 612, and reserve the operations of blocks 614-620 for performance only
after a suitable subsample size has been identified.
         The foregoing trend determination methods enable a new framework for upscaling
petrophysical properties, i.e., deriving large-scale properties from small scale samples analyzed
with digital rock physics (DRP) imaging. Fig. 7 shows sample images acquired at three different
scales: large scale (low resolution), intermediate scale (intermediate resolution), and small scale
(high resolution). The use of small scale samples to derive the petrophysical properties of the large
scale sample yields an enormous gain in computational efficiency.
         Each sample image reveals the presence of multiple, distinguishable entities which can be
identified using the foregoing methods, image processing-based techniques (e.g. Liang, 2012,
Unser & Eden, 1989), or statistical analysis (see e.g. Christopher, 2003, Barker, 1998). Each entity
can be classified as resolved or unresolved, the former indicating that the entity is substantially
void (empty space) or substantially impermeable solid (filled space), and the latter indicating that
the entity is a collection of porous matrices (partially filled space). As the relevant properties of
the resolved entities are already apparent, subsequent analysis focuses on the unresolved entities.
                                                    7

         The unresolved entities are selected arbitrarily or identified based on visual inspection or
statistical analysis (potentially using the methods explained above). One or more higher-resolution
samples are taken from each entity. In the example of Fig. 7, this yields the intermediate scale
image which is not fully resolved. The process is repeated until, as shown by the small scale image
on the right side of Fig. 7, a fully resolved sample is obtained. Two magnifications were employed
in Fig. 7, and hence the upscaling process set out below will be repeated twice to obtain the desired
petrophysical properties for the large scale image.
         Figs. 8A-8D shown the three phases associated with the first upscaling process. The first
phase, represented by the arrow from Fig. 8A to Fig. 8B, is the obtaining of high resolution images
from each of the unresolved entities. In the second phase, as represented by the arrows from Fig.
8B to Fig. 8C, the high resolution images are processed to measure their properties and to derive
their inter-relationships using the trend-identification methods set out previously.
         As set out previously, subsamples of the image are taken and sorted based on their
structures/patterns and their location. Various numerical techniques such as finite volume method
(FVM), finite element method (FEM) and lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) can be used to solve
the governing equations of these properties. It is desirable to solve multi-scale governing
equations, such as Darcy equations, Brinkman equations or Brinkman-Forchheimer equations for
permeability. The relationships between properties are derived using a regression analysis
techniques with a selected mathematical function, see Fig. 8C.
         This populating operation may employ an image registration technique, i.e. a method to
transform multiple images into similar frame of reference, but this is not necessary if the exact
location of entities in the large sample are known. As indicated at Fig. 8D, the method then relates
a property value of the larger scale image to the properties measured at the smaller scale, optionally
in terms of a linear translation. For example, the pixel intensity of the larger scale image may be
related to the porosity measured in a corresponding part of the smaller scale image. Such linear
translations may be employed to map the properties revealed by the small scale trends of Fig. 8C
to corresponding locations in the image of Fig. 8A, thereby providing petrophysical property
measurements for each of the previously-identified (unresolved) entities of Fig. 8A.
         As part of the trend-mapping, the third phase performs an aggregation operation. As shown
in Fig. 9, each pixel of the larger scale image corresponds to multiple pixels of the smaller scale
image. As the trend properties associated with the different small scale pixels may not be identical
                                                   8

(e.g., at the boundary between entities), the aggregation operation combines the different trend
properties to provide a suitable aggregated property measurement value. Direct area/volume
averaging may be used or a wavelet decomposition technique may be employed. The trend
information, together with the aggregation and translation processes, provide a transitive
relationship for mapping petrophysical properties onto the larger scale image. This third phase
may hereafter be referred to as "populating" the larger scale sample.
         Once the upscaling process has been performed for each of the entities identified in each
of the intermediate scale samples, the upscaling operation is performed again, using the populated
intermediate scale samples as inputs as represented in Figs. 10A-10D. The resulting populated
large-scale sample can be used to resolve large-scale petrophysical properties and/or trends. If
desired the method can be extended to ever-larger scales.
         The foregoing methods may be computer implemented. For context, Figs. 11-12
demonstrate an illustrative context for the use of these methods. Fig. 11 shows an illustrative high
resolution focused ion beam and scanning electron microscope 120 having an observation chamber
 122 in which a sample of material is placed. A computer 124 is coupled to the observation chamber
instrumentation to control the measurement process. Software on the computer 124 interacts with
a user via a user interface having one or more input devices 126 (such as a keyboard, mouse,
joystick, light pen, touchpad, or touchscreen) and one or more output devices 128 (such as a display
or printer).
         For high resolution imaging, the observation chamber 122 is typically evacuated of air and
other gases. A beam of electrons or ions can be rastered across the sample's surface to obtain a
high resolution image. Moreover, the ion beam energy can be increased to mill away thin layers
of the sample, thereby enabling sample images to be taken at multiple depths. When stacked, these
images offer a three-dimensional image of the sample to be acquired. As an illustrative example
of the possibilities, some systems enable such imaging of a 40x40x40 micrometer cube at a 10
nanometer resolution.
         However, the system described above is only one example of the technologies available
for imaging a sample. Transmission electron microscopes (TEM) and three-dimensional
tomographic x-ray transmission microscopes are two other technologies that can be employed to
obtain a digital model of the sample. Regardless of how the images are acquired, the foregoing
                                                   9

disclosure applies so long as the resolution is sufficient to reveal the porosity structure of the
sample.
        The source of the sample, such as in the instance of a rock formation sample, is not
particularly limited. For rock formation samples, for example, the sample can be sidewall cores,
whole cores, drill cuttings, outcrop quarrying samples, or other sample sources which can provide
suitable samples for analysis using methods according to the present disclosure.
        Fig. 12 is an example of a larger system 200 within which the scanning microscope 120
can be employed. In the larger system 200, a personal workstation 202 is coupled to the scanning
microscope     120 by a local area network (LAN) 204. The LAN 204 further enables
intercommunication between the scanning microscope 120, personal workstation 202, one or more
high performance computing platforms 206, and one or more shared storage devices 208 (such as
a RAID, NAS, SAN, or the like). The high performance computing platform 206 generally
employs multiple processors 212 each coupled to a local memory 214. An internal bus 216
provides high bandwidth communication between the multiple processors (via the local memories)
and a network interface 220. Parallel processing software resident in the memories 214 enables the
multiple processors to cooperatively break down and execute the tasks to be performed in an
expedited fashion, accessing the shared storage device 208 as needed to deliver results and/or to
obtain the input data and intermediate results.
        Typically, a user would employ a personal workstation 202 (such as a desktop or laptop
computer) to interact with the larger system 200. Software in the memory of the personal
workstation 202 causes its one or more processors to interact with the user via a user interface,
enabling the user to, e.g., craft and execute software for processing the images acquired by the
scanning microscope. For tasks having small computational demands, the software may be
executed on the personal workstation 202, whereas computationally demanding tasks may be
preferentially run on the high performance computing platform 206.
        When adapted for use in the illustrative systems, the methods may be modified to enable
one or more of the operations to be carried out concurrently to exploit the availability of parallel
processing resources. Moreover, the order of the steps may vary, with some of the steps carried
out in a potentially speculative fashion. Such variations are within the scope of the claims.
        Potential advantages of the disclosed systems and methods include the use of DRP to
overcome the obstacles presented by traditional experimental approaches and instead provide an
                                                 10

accurate, safe, repeatable determination of petrophysical properties the accounts for the typical
complexity and heterogeneity/anisotropy of the rocks/reservoirs.        It provides a universal
framework to establish trends between petrophysical properties, e.g. porosity, permeability,
formation factor, elasticity, relative permeability.
        The following references are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety:
Barker, S.A., Image segmentation using Markov random field models, Dissertation, University of
 Cambridge, 1998.
Christopher, L., Bayesian segmentation of three dimensional images using the EM/MPM
 algorithm, Dissertation, Purdue University, 2003.
De Prisco et al., Digital rock analysis systems and methods that reliably predict a porosity
 permeability trend, Provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 61/692,541.
Durlofsky, L.J., Upscaling and gridding of fine scale geological models for flow simulation, 8th
 International Forum on Reservoir Simulation, 2005.
Ehrenberg, S.N., Nadeau, P.H., Sandstone vs. carbonate petroleum reservoirs: A global
 perspective on porosity-depth and porosity-permeability relationships, AAPG Bulletin, v. 89, no.
 4, 2005.
Ehrenberg, S.N., Whole core versus plugs: Scale dependence of porosity and permeability
 measurements in platform carbonates, AAPG Bulletin, 91(6), 2007.
Green, C.P., and Paterson, L., Analytical three-dimensional renormalization for calculating
 effective permeabilities, Transport in Porous Media, 68(2), 2007.
Khalili, A.D., Arns, J.-Y., Hussain, F., Cinar, Y., Pinczewski, W.V., Latham, D., Funk, J.,
 Permeability upscaling for carbonates from the pore-scale using multi-scale Xray-CT images,
 SPE 152640, 2012.
Khalili, A.D., Yanici, S., Cinar, Y., Arns, C.H., Formation factor for heterogeneous carbonate
 rocks using multi-scale Xray-CT images, Journal of Engg. Research, Year 1, No. 2, 2013.
Krabbenhoft, K., Karim, M.R., New renormalization schemes for conductivity upscaling in
 heterogeneous media, Transport in Porous Media, 85(3), 2010.
Liang, M., 3D co-occurrence matrix based texture analysis applied to cervical cancer screening,
 Dissertation, Uppsala Universitet, 2012.
Ma, S., Morrow, N.R., Relationships between porosity and permeability for porous rocks, 1996
 SCA Conference paper number 9610.
                                                   11

Nelson, P.H., Permeability-porosity relationships in sedimentary rocks, 1994, The Log Analyst
 (May-June), 38-62.
Ramstad, T., Oren, P.-E., Bakke, S., Simulation of two-phase flow in reservoir rocks using a lattice
 Boltzmann method, SPE Journal, SPE 124617, 2010.
Sungkorn et al., Method for Establishing Petrophysical Trends Using Digital Rock Physics
 Imaging, 2014a.
Sungkorn et al., A Method for Determination of Representative Elementary Volume using
 Advanced Statistical Analysis, 2014b.
Torabi, A., Fossen, H., Braathen, A., Insight into petrophysical properties of deformed sandstone
 reservoirs, AAPG Bulletin, v. 97, no. 4, 2013.
Unser, M., Eden, M., Multiresolution feature extraction and selection for texture segmentation,
 IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 11(7), 1989.
Vik, B., Bastesen, E., Skauge, A., Evaluation of representative elementary volume for vuggy
 carbonate rock - Part: Porosity, permeability, and dispersivity, Journal of Petroleum Science and
 Engineering, 112, 2013.
Weibel, R., Kristensen, L., Olivarius, M., Hjuler, M.L., Mathiesen, A., Nielsen, L.H., Investigating
 deviations from overall porosity-permeability trends, Proceedings Thirty-Sixth Workshop on
 Geothermal Reservoir Engineering, 2012.
Worthington, P.F., The effect of scale on the petrophysical estimation of intergranular
 permeability, Petrophysics 45(1), 2004.
                                                 12

                                              CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method that comprises:
  acquiring two-dimensional (2D) or three-dimensional (3D) digital images of a rock sample;
  selecting a subsample within the digital images;
  deriving a trend or petrophysical property for the subsample; and
  applying the trend or petrophysical property to a larger-scale portion of the digital images.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the subsample comprises identifying a fully-resolved
entity within the digital images and selecting the fully-resolved entity as the subsample.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising performing a statistical analysis to identify the fully
resolved entity.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising performing image-processing to identify the fully
resolved entity.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the subsample comprises identifying an unresolved
entity within the digital images, obtaining a higher-resolution image of the unresolved entity,
identifying a fully-resolved entity within the higher-resolution image, and selecting the fully
resolved entity as the subsample.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising relating a property value of the larger-scale sample
to the trend or petrophysical property.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising deriving a trend or petrophysical property for each
of a plurality of subsamples, and applying an aggregation of the trends or petrophysical properties
to a larger-scale portion of the digital images.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein deriving a trend or petrophysical property comprises deriving
a multi-modal distribution of property measurements.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein deriving a trend for the subsample comprises determining a
distribution of property measurements and extracting component distributions.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing subsequent analysis of the digital
images based on the applied trend or petrophysical property.
                                                 13

11. A system that comprises:
  a memory having software; and
  one or more processors coupled to the memory to execute the software, the software causing
     the one or more processors to:
         acquire two-dimensional (2D) or three-dimensional (3D) digital images of a rock sample;
         select a subsample within the digital images;
         derive a trend or petrophysical property for the subsample; and
         apply the trend or petrophysical property to a larger-scale portion of the digital images.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the software causes the one or more processors to select the
subsample by identifying a fully-resolved entity within the digital images and by selecting the
fully-resolved entity as the subsample.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the software causes the one or more processors to perform a
statistical analysis to identify the fully-resolved entity.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the software causes the one or more processors to perform
image-processing to identify the fully-resolved entity.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the software causes the one or more processors to select the
subsample by identifying an unresolved entity within the digital images, obtaining a higher
resolution image of the unresolved entity, identifying a fully-resolved entity within the higher
resolution image, and selecting the fully-resolved entity as the subsample.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the software further causes the one or more processors to
relate a property value of the larger-scale sample to the trend or petrophysical property.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the software causes the one or more processors to derive a
trend or petrophysical property for each of a plurality of subsamples, and to apply an aggregation
of the trends or petrophysical properties to a larger-scale portion of the digital images.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the software further causes the one or more processors to
deriving a trend or petrophysical property by deriving a multi-modal distribution of property
measurements.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the software further causes the one or more processors to
derive a trend for the subsample by determining a distribution of property measurements and
extracting component distributions.
                                                    14

20. The system of claim 11, wherein the software further causes the one or more processors to
performing subsequent analysis of the digital images based on the applied trend or petrophysical
property.
                                                15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
