                                            ABSTRACT
         Methods for the treatment of a cell proliferation disorder in a subject, involving: (1)
administering to the subject at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent that is capable of
effecting a predetermined cellular change when activated, either alone or in combination with
at least one energy modulation agent; and (2) applying an initiation energy from an initiation
energy source to the subject, wherein the applying activates the activatable agent in situ, thus
causing the predetermined cellular change to occur, wherein the predetermined cellular
change treats the cell proliferation disorder, preferably by causing an increase or decrease in
rate of cell proliferation, and a kit for performing the method, a computer implemented
system for performing the method, a pharmaceutical composition useful in the method and a
method for causing an auto vaccine effect in a subject using the method.

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   1
   TITLE OF THE INVENTION
                            METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR TREATING
                                CELL PROLIFERATION DISORDERS
 5                      CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            This application claims priority from United States Application Serial Number
   60/910,663, filed April 8, 2007, entitled "METHOD OF TREATING CELL
   PROLIFERATION DISORDERS," and United States Application Serial Number 11/935,655
   filed November 6, 2007, entitled "METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR TREATING CELL
10 PROLIFERA TION DISORDERS," the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by
   reference.
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Field of Invention
            The present invention relates to methods and systems for treating cell proliferation
15 disorders, that provide better distinction between normal, healthy cells and those cells
   suffering a cell proliferation disorder (hereafter "target cells") and preferably that can be
   performed using non-invasive or minimally invasive techniques.
   Discussion of the Background
20 Cell Proliferation Disorders
            There are several types of cell proliferation disorders. Exemplary cell proliferation
   disorders may include, but are not limited to, cancer, bacterial infection, immune rejection
   response of organ transplant, solid tumors, viral infection, autoimmune disorders (such as
   arthritis, lupus, inflammatory bowel disease, Sjogrens syndrome, multiple sclerosis) or a
25 combination thereof, as well as aplastic conditions wherein cell proliferation is low relative to
   healthy cells, such as aplastic anemia. Of these, cancer is perhaps the most well known. The
   term "cancer" generally refers to a diverse class of diseases that are commonly characterized
   by an abnormal proliferation of the diseased cells. A unifying thread in all known types of
   cancer is the acquisition of abnormalities in the genetic material of the cancer cell and its
30 progeny. Once a cell becomes cancerous, it will proliferate without respect to normal limits,
   invading and destroying adjacent tissues, and may even spread to distant anatomic sites

      WO 20(8/124681                                                              PCT/US2008/059561
                                                     2
   through a process called metastasis, These life-threatening, malignant properties of cancers
   differentiate them from benign tumors, which are self-limited in their growth and do not
   invade or metastasize.
            The impact of cancer on society cannot be overstated. The disease may affect people
 5 at all ages, with a risk factor that significantly increases with a person's age. It has been one
   of the principal causes of death in developed countries and, as our population continues to
   age, it is expected to be an even greater threat to our society and economy. Therefore, finding
   cures and effective treatments for cancer has been, and remains, a priority within the
   biomedical research community.
10 Treatment Methods
             Existing treatments for cell proliferation disorders such as cancer include surgery,
   chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy, monoclonal antibody therapy, and several
   other lesser known methods, The choice of therapy usually depends on the location and
   severity of the disorder, the stage of the disease, as well as the patient's response to the
15 treatment.
             While some treatments may only seek to manage and alleviate symptoms of the
   disorder, the ultimate goal of any effective therapy is the complete removal or cure of all
   disordered cells without damage to the rest of the body. With cancer, although surgery may
   sometimes accomplish this goal, the propensity of cancer cells to invade adjacent tissue or to
20 spread to distant sites by microscopic metastasis often limits the effectiveness of this option.
   Similarly, the effectiveness of current chemotherapy is often limited by toxicity to other
   tissues in the body. Radiation therapy suffers from similar shortcomings as other
   aforementioned treatment methods. Most of these cancer treatment methods, including
   radiation therapy, are known to cause damage to DNA, which if not repaired during a critical
25 stage in mitosis, the splitting of the cell during cell proliferation, leads to a programmed cell
   death, i e. apoptosis. Further, radiation tends to damage healthy cells, as well as malignant
   tumor cells.
             A number of patents describe ex vivo treatment of bodily fluids, for example blood.
   Blood is obtained from a patient, treated with a photosensitive agent, exposed to UV
30 radiation, and rein jected to the patient (i.e. extracorporeal photopheresis). Alternatively, a
   patient can be treated in vivo with a photosensitive agent followed by the withdrawal of a
   sample from the patient, treatment with UV radiation in vitro (ex vivo), and reinjecting the
   patient with the treated sample. This method is known for producing an autovaccine. A

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US20081059561
                                                    3
   method of treating a patient with a photosensitive agent, exposing the patient to an energy
   source and generating an autovaccine effect wherein all steps are conducted in vivo has not
   been described. See WO 03/049801, U.S. 6,569,467; U.S. 6,204,058; U.S. 5,980,954; U.S.
   6,669,965; U.S. 4,838,852; U.S. 7,045, 124, and U.S. 6,849,058. Moreover, he side effects of
 5 extracorporeal photopheresis are well known and include nausea, vomiting, cutaneous
   erythema, hypersensitivity to sunlight, and secondary hematologic malignancy. Researchers
   are attempting to use photopheresis in experimental treatments for patients with cardiac,
   pulmonary and renal allograft rejection; autoimmune diseases, and ulcerative colitis.
             A survey of known treatment methods reveals that these methods tend to face a
10 primary difficulty of differentiating between normal cells and target cells when delivering
   treatment, often due to the production of singlet oxygen which is known to be non-selective
   in its attack of cells, as well as the need to perform the processes ex vivo, or through highly
   invasive procedures, such as surgical procedures in order to reach tissues more than a few
   centimeters deep within the subject.
             U.S. 5,829,448 describes simultaneous two photon excitation of photo-agents using
   irradiation with low energy photons such as infrared or near infrared light (NRI). A single
   photon and simultaneous two photon excitation is compared for psoralen derivatives, wherein
   cells are treated with the photo agent and are irradiated with NRI or UV radiation. The patent
   suggests that treating with a low energy irradiation is advantageous because it is absorbed and
20 scattered to a lesser extent than UV radiation. However, the use of NRI or UV radiation is
   known to penetrate tissue to only a depth of a few centimeters. Thus any treatment deep
   within the subject would necessarily require the use of ex vivo methods or highly invasive
   techniques to allow the irradiation source to reach the tissue of interest.
             Chen et al., J. Nanosci. and Nanotech-, 6:1159-1166 (2006); Kim et al., JACS,
25 129:2669-2675 (2007); U.S. 2002/0127224; and U.S. 4,979,935 each describe methods for
   treatment using various types of energy activation of agents within a subject. However, each
   suffers from the drawback that the treatment is dependent on the production of singlet oxygen
   to produce the desired effect on the tissue being treated, and is thus largely indiscriminate in
   affecting both healthy cells and the diseased tissue desired to be treated.
30           U.S. Pat. No. 6,908,591 discloses methods for sterilizing tissue with irradiation to
   reduce the level of one or more active biological contaminants or pathogens, such as
   viruses, bacteria, yeasts, molds, fungi, spores, prions or similar agents responsible, alone
   or in combination, for transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and/or single or

       WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/IUS2008/059561
                                                    4
   multicellular parasites, such that the tissue may subsequently be used in transplantation to
   replace diseased and/or otherwise defective tissue in an animal. The method may include
   the use of a sensitizer such as psoralen, a psoralen-derivative or other photosensitizer in
   order to improve the effectiveness of the irradiation or to reduce the exposure necessary
 5 to sterilize the tissue. However, the method is not suitable for treating a patient and does
   not teach any mechanisms for stimulating the photosensitizers, indirectly.
            U.S. Pat. No. 6,235,508 discloses antiviral applications for psoralens and other
   photoactivatable molecules. It teaches a method for inactivating viral and bacterial
10 contaminants from a biological solution. The method includes mixing blood with a
   photosensitizer and a blocking agent and irradiating the mixture to stimulate the
   photoserisitizer, inactivating substantially all of the contaminants in the blood, without
   destroying the red blood cells. The blocking agent prevents or reduces deleterious side
   reactions of the photosensitizer, which would occur if not in the presence of the blocking
15 agent. The mode of action of the blocking agent is not predominantly in the quenching of
   any reactive oxygen species, according to the reference.
            Also, U.S. Pat. No. 6,235,508 suggests that halogenated photosensitizers and
   blocking agents might be suitable for replacing 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) in photophoresis
    and in treatment of certain proliferative cancers, especially solid localized tumors accessible
20  via a fiber optic light device or superficial skin cancers. However, the reference fails to
    address any specific molecules for use in treating lymphomas or any other cancer. Instead, the
    reference suggests a process of photophoresis for antiviral treatments of raw blood and
    plasma.
             U.S Pat. No. 5,235,508 teaches away from 8-MOP and 4'-aminomethyl-4,5',8
25  trimethylpsoralen (AMT) and many other photoactivatable molecules, which are taught to
    have certain disadvantages. Fluorescing photosensitizers are said to be preferred, but the
    reference does not teach how to select a system of fluorescent stimulation or photoactivation
    using fluorescent photosensitizers. Instead, the fluorescing photosensitizer is limited to the
    intercalator that is binding to the DNA. The reference suggests that fluorescence indicates that
30  such an intercalator is less likely to stimulate oxygen radicals. Thus, the reference fails to
    disclose any mechanism of photoactivation of an intercalator other than by direct
    photoactivation by UV light, although use of a UV light probe or X-rays is suggested for

     WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                 5
   penetrating deeper into tissues. No examples are provided for the use of a UV light probe or
   for use of X-rays. No example of any stimulation by X-ray radiation is taught.
   Psoralens and Related Compounds
 5          U.S. Pat. No. 6,235,508 further teaches that psoralens are naturally occurring
   compounds which have been used therapeutically for millennia in Asia and Africa. The action
   of psoralens and light has been used to treat vitiligo and psoriasis (PUVA therapy; Psoralen
   Ultra Violet A). Psoralen is capable of binding to nucleic acid double helices by intercalation
   between base pairs; adenine, guanine, cytosine and thymine (DNA) or uracil (RNA). Upon
10 sequential absorption of two UV-A photons, psoralen in its excited state reacts with a thymine
   or uracil double bond and covalently attaches to both strands of a nucleic acid helix. The
   crosslinking reaction appears to be specific for a thymine (DNA) or a uracil (RNA) base.
   Binding proceeds only if psoralen is intercalated in a site containing thyrnine or uracil, but an
   initial photoadduct must absorb a second UVA photon to react with a second thymine or
15 uracil on the opposing strand of the double helix in order to crosslink each of the two strands
   of the double helix, as shown below, This is a sequential absorption of two single photons as
   shown, as opposed to simultaneous absorption of two or more photons.
                              HNNl
                                               MNl A I          I
                             DNA wind                                ONA tmd
                                                   :VA (tiw phh  )Io

      WO 2008/124681                                                             PCT/US2008/059561
                                                    6
                                    NN
                                       'Y                      0
                                                                    i
                                                            IIN
                                                    jt VA (mcv1 riiLow1
                                        N  U
            tn addition, the reference teaches that 8-MOP is unsuitable for use as an an:iviral,
   because it damages both cells and vimses. Lethal damage to a cell or virus occurs when
   the psoralen is intercalated into a nucleic acid duplex in sites containing two thymines (or
 5 uracils) on opposing strands but only when it sequentially absorbs 2 UVA photons and
   thymines (or uracils) are present. U.S. Pat. No. 4,748,120 of Wiesehan is an example of
   the use of certain substituted psoralens by a photochemical decontamination process for
   the treatment of blood or blood products.
            Additives, such as antioxidants are sometimes used with psoralens, such as 8-MOP,
10 AMT and     I-IMT, to scavenge singlet oxygen and other highly reactive oxygen species formed
   during photoactivation of the psoralens. It is well known that UV activation creates such
   reactive oxygen species, which are capable of seriously damaging otherwise healthy
   cells. Much of the viral deactivation may be the result of these reactive oxygen species
   rather than any effect of photoactivation of psoralens, Regardless, it is believed
15 that no auto vaccine effect has been observed.
            The best known photoactivatable compounds are derivatives of psoralen or
   coumarin, which are nucleic acid intercalators. The use of psoralen and coumarin
   photosensitizers can give rise to alternative chemical pathways for dissipation of the
   excited state that are either not beneficial to the goal of viral inactivation, or that are

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                    7
   actually detrimental to the process. For psoralens and coumarins, this chemical pathway
   is likely to lead to the formation of a variety of ring-opened species, such as shown below
   for coumarin:
                                                          0
                                                             HO        H
                        CourvarinDa
                                        -0~~          ~          1~         X-11 or Dr
                         X-Br         4
                         R=OCHaCHaCHNNEt Br               H
 5          Research in this field over-simplifies mechanisms involved in the photoactivating
   mechanism and formation of highly reactive oxygen species, such as singlet oxygen.
   Both may lead to inactivating damage of tumor cells, viruses and healthy cells. However,
   neither, alone or combined, lead to an auto vaccine effect. This requires an activation of
   the body's own immune system to identify a malignant cell or virus as threat and to create
10 an immune response capable of lasting cytotoxic effects directed to that threat. It is
   believed, without being limiting in any way, that photoactivation and the resulting apoptosis
   of malignant cells that occurs in extracorporeal photophoresis causes the activation of an
   immune response with cytotoxic effects on untreated malignant cells. While the
   complexity of the immune response and cytotoxid effects is fully appreciated by researchers,
15 a therapy that harnesses the system to successfully stimulate an auto vaccine effect against a
   targeted, malignant cell has been elusive, except for extracorporeal photophoresis for treating
   lymphoma.
            Midden (W. R. Midden, Psoralen DNA pholobiology, Vol I I (ed. F. P.
   Gaspalloco) CRC press, pp. 1. (1988) has presented evidence that psoralens photoreact
20 with unsaturated lipids and photoreaut with molecular oxygen to produce active oxygen
   species such as superoxide and singlet oxygen that cause lethal damage to membranes.
   U.S. Pat. No. 6,235,508 teaches that S-MOP and AMT are unacceptable photosensitizers,
   because each indiscriminately damages both cells and viruses. Studies of the effects of
   cationic side chains on furocoumarins as photosensitizers are reviewed in Psoralen DNA

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   8
   Photobiology, Vol. I, ed. F. Gaspano, CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, Fla., Chapter 2. U.S.
   Pat. No. 6,235,508 gleans the following from this review: most of the amino compounds
   had a much lower ability to both bind and form crosslinks to DNA compared to 8-MOP,
   suggesting that the primary amino functionality is the preferred ionic species for both
 5 photobinding and crosslinking.
            U.S. Pat. No. 5,216,176 of Heindel discloses a large number of psoralens and
   coumanns that have some effectiveness as photoactivated inhibitors ot epidermal growth
   factor. Halogens and amines are included among the vast functionalities that could be
   included in the psoralen/coumarin backbone. This reference is incorporated herein by
10 reference.
            U. S. Pat. No. 5,984,887 discloses using extracorporeal photophoresis with 8-MOP
   to treat blood infected with CMV. The treated cells as well as killed and/or attenuated
   virus, peptides, native subunits of the virus itself (which are released upon cell break-up
   and/or shed into the blood) and/or pathogenic noninfectious viruses are then used to
15 generate an immune response against the virus, which was not present prior to the
   treatment.
   Photodynamic Therpy (PDT)
            Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a treatment modality that uses a photosensitizing
   agent and laser light to kill cells. PDT retains several photosensitizers in tumors for a
20 longer time than in normal tissues, thus offering potential improvement in treatment
   selectivity. See Comer C., "Determination of [3H]- and [14C] hematoporphyrin
   derivative distribution in malignant and normal tissue," Cancer Res 1979, 3 9: 146- 15      1
   Young SW, et al., "Lutetium texaphyrin (PCI-0123) a near-infrared, water-soluble
   photosensitizer," Photocliei    Photobiol 1996, 63:892-897; and Berenbaum MC, et al.,
25 "Meso-Tetra(hydroxyphenyl)porphyrins, a new class of potent tumor photosensitisers
   with favourable selectivity," Br J Cancer 1986, 54:717-725, Photodynamic therapy uses
   light of a specific wavelength to activate the photosensitizing agent. Various light sources
   have been developed for PDT that include dye lasers and diode lasers. Light generated by
   lasers can be coupled to optical fibers that allow the light to be transmitted to the desired
30 site. See Pass 1-11, "Photodynamic therapy in oncology: mechanisms and clinical use," J
   Nat] Cancer Inst 1993, 85:443-456. According to researchers, the cytotoxic effect of
   PDT is the result of photooxidation reactions, as disclosed in Foote CS, "Mechanisms of
   photooxygenation," Proa Clin Biol Res 1984, 170:3-18. Light causes excitation of the

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                    9
   photosensitizer, in the presence of oxygen, to produce various toxic species, such as
   singlet oxygen and hydroxyl radicals. It is not clear that direct damage to DNA is a major
   effect; therefore, this may indicate that photoactivation of DNA crosslinking is not
   stimulated efficiently
 5          Furthermore, when laser light is administered via external illumination of tissue
   surfaces, the treatment effect of PDT is confined to a few millimeters (i.e. superficial).
   The reason for this superficial limitation is mainly the limited penetration of the visible
   light used to activate the photosensitizer. Thus, PDT is used to treat the surfaces of
   critical organs, such as lungs or intra-abdominal organs, without damage to the
to underlying structures. However, even these treatments require significantly invasive
   techniques to treat the surface of the affected organs. Clinical situations use the procedure in
   conjunction with surgical debulking to destroy remnants of microscopic or minimal gross
   disease. It is possible that the laser light and small amount of remaining microscopic and
   minimal gross disease results in too little or highly damaged structures. Pre-clinical data show
15 that some immune response is generated, but clinical trials have reported no auto 'vaccine
   effect similar to that produced by extracorporeal photophoresis in clinical conditions. Instead,
   immune response appears to be vigorous only under limited conditions and only for a
   limited duration.
   Problems
20          It is well recognized that a major problem associated with the existing methods of
   diagnosis and treatment of cell proliferation disorders is in differentiation of normal cells
   from target cells. Such target specificity is difficult to achieve by way of surgery since the
   strategy there is simply to cut out a large enough portion of the affected area to include all
   diseased cclls and hope that no diseased cells have spread to other distant locations.
25          With chemotherapy, while some degree of differentiation can be achieved, healthy
   cells are generally adversely affected by chemo-agents. As in surgery, the treatment strategy
   in chemotherapy is also to kill off a large population of cells, with the understanding that
   there are far more normal cells than diseased cells so that the organism can recover from the
   chemical assault.
3C          Radiation therapy works by irradiating cells with high levels of high energy radiation
    such as high energy photon, electron, or proton. These high energy beams ionize the atoms
   which make up a DNA chain, which in turn leads to cell death. Unlike surgery, radiation
   therapy does not require placing patients under anesthesia and has the ability to treat tumors

      WO 2008/24681                                                             PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   10
   deep inside the body with minimal invasion of the body. However, the high doses of
   radiation needed for such therapies damages healthy cells just as effectively as it does
   diseased cells. Thus, similar to surgery, differentiation between healthy and diseased cells in
   radiation therapy is only by way of location. There is no intrinsic means for a radiation beam
 5 to differentiate between a healthy cell from a diseased cell either.
            Other methods may be more refined. For example, one form of advanced treatment
   for lymphoma known as extracorporeal photopheresis involves drawing the patient's blood
   from his body into an instrument where the white cells (buffy coat) are separated from the
   plasma and the red blood cells. A small amount of the plasma separated in this process is
10 then isolated and mixed with a photosensitizer (PS), a drug that can be activated by light. The
   buffy coat is then exposed to a light to activate the drug. The treated blood is then returned to
   the patient. In this example, one may think of the target-specificity problem as being solved
   by separating the blood from the rest of the body where the target components are easily
   exposed.
15          However, this procedure has its drawbacks; it requires drawing blood from the patient,
   thus requiring cumbersome machinery to perform and may require blood transfusion in order
   to maintain the volume of blood flow in the machine. Further, this also limits the size of the
   patient that can be treated, since the extracorporeal volume is great and too much withdrawal
   of blood increases the risk of hypovolemic shock. The method is also limited to treating
20 blood-born cell proliferation related disorders such as lymphoma, and is not capable of
   treating solid tumors or other types of non-blood related cell proliferation disorders.
            A problem encountered in PDT therapy is the inability to treat target areas that are
   more than a few centimeters beneath the surface of the skin without significant invasive
   techniques, and the fact that PDT typically operates by generation of sufficient quantities of
25 singlet oxygen to cause cell lysis. However, singlet oxygen in sufficient concentration will
   lyse not only target cells, but also healthy cells rather indiscriminately.
            Therefore, there still exists a need for better and more effective treatments that can
   more precisely target the diseased cells without causing substantial side-effects or collateral
   damages to healthy tissues, and which are capable of treating even solid tumors or other types
3C of non-blood related cell proliferation disorders.
                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

      WO 2008/124681                                                             PCTIUJS2008/059561
                                                    11
           Accordingly, one object of the present invention is to provide a method for the
   treatment of a cell proliferation disorder that permits treatment of a subject in any area of the
   body while being non-invasive and having high selectivity for targeted cells relative to
   healthy cells.
 5          A further object of the present invention is to provide a method for treatment of a cell
   proliferation disorder which can use any suitable energy source as the initiation energy source
   to activate the activatable pharmaceutical agent and thereby cause a predetermined cellular
   change to treat cells suffering from a cell proliferation disorder.
            A further object of the present invention is to provide a method for treatment of a cell
tI proliferation disorder using an energy cascade to activate an activatable pharmaceutical agent
   that then treats cells suffering from a cell proliferation disorder.
            A further object of the present invention is to provide a method for generating an
   autovaccine effect in a subject, which can be in vivo thus avoiding the need for ex vivo
   treatment of subject tissues or cells, or can be ex vivo.
is          A further object of the present invention is to provide a computer implemented system
   for performing the methods of the present invention.
            A still further object of the present invention is to provide a kit and a pharmaceutical
   composition for use in the present invention methods.
            These and other objects of the present invention, which will become more apparent in
20 conjunction with the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments, either
   alone or in combinations thereof, have been satisfied by the discovery of a method for treating
   a cell proliferation disorder in a subject, comprising:
            (I) administering to the subject an activatable pharmaceutical agent that is capable of
                     effecting a predetermined cellular change when activated, either alone or in
25                   combination with an energy modulation agent; and
            (2) applying an initiation energy from an initiation energy source to the subject,
            wherein the applying activates the activatable agent in situ,
            thus causing the predetermined cellular change to occur, wherein occurrence of the
3C predetermined cellular change causes an increase or decrease in rate of cell proliferation to
   treat the cell proliferation related disorder,

       WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   12
             and a kit for performing the method, a pharmaceutical composition, a computer
    implemented system for performing the method and a method and system for causing an
    autovaccine effect in a subject.
  5                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
             A more complete appreciation of the invention and many of the attendant advantages
    thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the
    following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying
    drawings, wherein:
i            FIG. I provides an exemplary electromagnetic spectrum in meters (1 nm equals
    meters).
             FIG. 2A and FIG. 2B are graphical representations of the depth of penetration of
    various wavelengths of energy into living tissue.
             FIG. 3 illustrates a system according to one exemplary embodiment of the present
15  invention.
             FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary computer implemented system according to an
    embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 5 illustrates an exemplary computer system (1201) for implementing various
    embodiments of the present invention.
20
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention sets forth a novel method of treating cell proliferation disorders
    that is effective, specific, and has few side-effects. Those cells suffering from a cell
    proliferation disorder are referred to herein as the target cells. A treatment for cell
25  proliferation disorders, including solid tumors, is capable of chemically binding cellular
    nucleic acids, including but not limited to, the DNA or mitochondrial DNA or RNA of the
    target cells. For example, a photoactivatable agent, such as a psoralen or a psoralen
    derivative, is exposed in situ to an energy source capable of activating the photoactivatable
    agent or agents selected. In another example, the photoactivatable agent is a photosensitizer.
30  The photoactivatable agent may be a metal nanocluster or a molecule.
             As noted above, an object of the present invention is to treat cell proliferation
    disorders. Exemplary cell proliferation disorders may include, but are not limited to, cancer,
    as well as bacterial and viral infections where the invading bacteria grows at a much more

     WO 2008/124681                                                             PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   13
   rapid rate than cells of the infected host. In addition, treatment for certain developmental
   stage diseases related to cell proliferation, such as syndactyly, are also contemplated.
            Accordingly, in one embodiment, the present invention provides methods that are
   capable of overcoming the shortcomings of the existing methods. In general, a method in
 5 accordance with the present invention utilizes the principle of energy transfer to and among
   molecular agents to control delivery and activation of pharmaceutically active agents such
   that delivery of the desired pharmacological effect is more focused, precise, and effective than
   the conventional techniques.
            Generally, the present invention provides methods for the treatment of cell
10 proliferation disorders,  in which an initiation energy SOuIrCe provides an initiation energy that
   activates an activatable pharmaceutical agent to treat target cells within the subject. In one
   preferred embodiment, the initiation energy source is applied indirectly to the activatable
   pharmaceutical agent, preferably in proximity to the target cells. Within the context of the
   present invention, the phrase "applied indirectly" (or variants of this phrase, such as "applying
15 indirectly", "indirectly applies", "indirectly applied", "indirectly applying", etc.), when
   referring to the application of the initiation energy, means the penetration by the initiation
   energy into the subject beneath the surface of the subject and to the activatable
   pharmaceutical agent within a subject, In one embodiment, the initiation energy interacts
   with a previously administered energy modulation agent which then activates the activatable
20 pharmaceutical agent. In another embodiment, the initiation energy itself activates the
   activatable pharmaceutical agent. In either embodiment, the initiation energy source cannot
   be within line-of-sight of the activatable pharmaceutical agent. By "cannot be within line-of
   sight" is meant that if a hypothetical observer were located at the location of the activatable
   pharmiceitical agent, that observer would be unable to see the source of the initiation energy.
25          Although not intending to be bound by any particular theory or be otherwise limited in
   any way, the following theoretical discussion of scientific principles and definitions are
   provided to help the reader gain an understanding and appreciation of the present invention.
            As used herein, the term "subject" is nut intended to be limited to humans, but may
   also include animals, plants, or any suitable biological organism.
30          As used herein, the phrase "cell proliferation disorder" refers to any condition where
   the growth rate of a population of cells is less than or greater than a desired rate under a given
   physiological state and conditions. Although, preferably, the proliferation rate that would be
   of interest for treatment purposes is faster than a desired rate, slower than desired rate

      WO 2008/124681                                                             PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                   14
   conditions may also be treated by methods of the present invention. Exemplary cell
   proliferation disorders may include, but are not limited to, cancer, bacterial infection, immune
   rejection response of organ transplant, solid tumors, viral infection, autoimmune disorders
   (such as arthritis, lupus, inflammatory bowel disease, Sjogrens syndrome, multiple sclerosis)
 5 or a combination thereof, as well as aplastic conditions wherein cell proliferation is low
   relative to healthy cells, such as aplastic anemia. Particularly preferred cell proliferation
   disorders for treatment using the present methods are cancer, staphylococcus aureus
   (particularly antibiotic resistant strains such as methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus or
   MRSA), and autoimrnune disorders.
10          As used herein, an "activatablc pharmaceutical agent" is an agent that normally exists
   in an inactive state in the absence of an activation signal. When the agent is activated by a
   matching activation signal under activating conditions, it is capable of effecting the desired
   pharmacological effect on a target cell (i.e. preferably a predetermined cellular change).
   Signals that may be used to activate a corresponding agent may include, but are not limited to,
15 photons of specific wavelengths (e.g. x-rays, or visible light), electromagnetic energy (e.g.
   radio or microwave), thermal energy, acoustic energy, or any combination thereof.
   Activation of the agent may be as simple as delivering the signal to the agent or may further
   premise on a set of activation conditions. For example, in the former case, an activatable
   pharmaceutical agent, such as a photosensitizer, may be activated by UV-A radiation. Once
20 activated, the agent in its active-state may then directly proceed to effect a cellular change.
    Where activation may further premise upon other conditions, mere delivery of the activation
    signal may not be sufficient to bring about the desired cellular change. For example, a
    photoactive compound that achieves its pharmaceutical effect by binding to certain cellular
    structure in its active state may require physical proximity to the target cellular structure when
25  the activation signal is delivered. For such activatable agents, delivery of the activation signal
    under non-activating conditions will not result in the desired pharmacologic effect. Some
    examples of activating conditions may include, but are not limited to, temperature, pH,
    location, state of the cell, presence or absence of co-factors.
            Selection of an activatable pharmaceutical agent greatly depends on a number of
30  factors such as the desired cellular change, the desired form of activation, as well as the
    physical and biochemical constraints that may apply. Exemplary activatable pharmaceutical
    agents may include, but are not limited to, agents that may be activated by photonic energy,

     WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                    15
   electrorriagnetic energy, acoustic energy, chemical or enzymatic reactions, thermal energy, or
   any other suitable activation mechanisms.
            When activated, the activatable pharmaceutical agent may effect cellular changes that
   include, but arc not limited to, apoptosis, redirection of metabolic pathways, up-regulation of
 5 certain genes, down-regulation of certain genes, secretion of cytokines, alteration of cytokine
   receptor responses, or combinations thereof.
            The mechanisms by which an activatable pharmaceutical agent may achieve its
   desired effect are not particularly limited, Such mechanisms may include direct action on a
   predetermined target as well as indirect actions via alterations to the biochemical pathways.
10 A preferred direct action mechanism is by binding the agent to a critical cellular structure
   such as nuclear DNA, mRNA, rRNA, ribosome, mitochondrial DNA, or any other
   functionally important structures. Indirect mechanisms may include releasing metabolites
   upon activation to interfere with normal metabolic pathways, releasing chemical signals (e.g.
   agonists or antagonists) upon activation to alter the targeted cellular response, and other
15 suitable biochemical or metabolic alterations.
            In one preferred embodiment, the activatable pharmaceutical agent is capable of
   chemically binding to the DNA or mitochondria at a therapeutically effective amount. In this
   embodiment, the activatable pharmaceutical agent, preferably a photoactivatable agent, is
   exposed in silu to an activating energy emitted from an energy modulation agent, which, in
20 turn receives energy from an initiation energy source.
            Suitable activatable agents include, but are not limited to, photoactive agents, sono
   active agents, thermo-active agents, and radio/microwave-active agents. An activatable agent
   may be a small molecule; a biological molecule such as a protein, a nucleic acid or lipid; a
   supramolecular assembly; a     [ianoparticle; or any other molecular entity having a
25 pharmaceutical activity once activated.
            The activatable agent may be derived from a natural or synthetic origin. Any such
   molecular entity that may be activated by a suitable activation signal source to effect a
   predetermined cellular change may be advantageously employed in the present invention.
            Suitable photoactive agents include, but are not limited to: psoralens and psoralen
30 derivatives, pyrene cholesteryloleate, acridine, porphyrin, fluorescein, rhodamine, 16
   diazorcortisone, ethidium, transition metal complexes of bleomycin, transition metal
   complexes of deglycobloomycin, organoplatinum complexes, alloxazines such as 7,8
   dimethyl-I 0-ribityl isoalloxazine (riboflavin), 7,8,1 0-trimethylisoalloxazine (lumi flavin), 7,8-

      WO 2008/124681                                                                           PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                          16
   dimethylalloxazine (lumichrome), isoalloxazine-adenine dinucleotide (flavine adenine
   dinucleotide [FAD]), alloxazine mononucleotide (also known as flavine mononucleolide
   [FMN] and riboflavine-5-phosphate), vitamin Ks, vitamin L, their metabolites and precursors,
   and napththoquinones, naphthalenes, naphthols and their derivatives having planar molecular
 5 conformations, porphyrins, dyes such as neutral red, methylene blue, acridine, toluidines,
   flavine (acriflavine hydrochloride) and phenothiazine derivatives, cournarins, quinolones,
   quinones, and anthroquinones, aluminum (I               11)phthalocyanine tetrasulfonate,
   hematoporphyrin, and phthalocyanine, and compounds which preferentially adsorb to nucleic
   acids with little or no effect on proteins. The term "alloxazine" includes isoalloxazines.
 o         Endogenously-based derivatives include synthetically derived analogs and hom1ologs
   of endogenous photoactivated molecules, which may have or lack lower (I to 5 carbons) alkyl
   or halogen substituents of the photosensitizers from which they are derived, and which
   preserve the function and substantial non-toxicity. Endogenous molecules are inherently non
   toxic and may not yield toxic photoproducts after photoradiation.
15         Table I lists some photoactivatable molecules capable of being photoactivated to
   induce an auto vaccine effect.
                            Table V SSET and TTET rate constants for       bchrmopnorte pepildes
            conond    A,. nm)   E=-   k, ofdono(s') k     (s    - kt(s')     ReA)        Rr(s   ) EA
                                                                                        (A erge)
               1i       224      953                2.44x10'      1,87x10     14 7         5
                         2d6      96                  1.810'                                       25    5Si0'
                         280      94                 136x10
               1A        224       0                 3            3. 7x10'
                                                                  3.610       14.7 110     141
                   .     266 _    79                 36)10-                                         2   35x10 2
                         280      79'                 36x1
               2B        224      77        5.1         1 1_0l'    3000O'     14.7 11.0     55
                         250      91  ______           .tnXlo,                                      22  9.4fl0'
                         2F1)          ______        A 7Y10                             _____
               2A        224      59      9           2 W10' 31'              14.7 122      a       m74 5700
                         265      80                  3 7x10'
                         283      n                   377
                                                        2X10

  WO 2008/124681             PCTUS2OO8/05956 I
                    17
              IA          lB
5
                 2A    2B

     WO 2008/124681                                                                        PCT/US2008/059561
                                                             18
                              Table 2 lists some additional endogenous photoactivatable molecules.
                    Table 2: Biocompatiblc,    rdenous iluorophore enrtrb.
                                                               Excitation Ma!. Emission Max.
                           Endogenous Fluorophoras                   (nm)           (nm)
                     Amminacids.
                     Tryptophan                                        280           350
                     Tyrosine                                          275           300
                     Phonylalanqe                                      200           200
                     Strura l Poteins
                     Collagen                                       325.360       400, 405
                     Elastin                                       200. 325        340,400
                     Enzymes    andCoenzymes.
                     flavn,adnine dinuleOoId                           450            535
                     reduced   ncotinamide dinJclide                290.361        Z43 400
                     reduced  nicolinamide dinucelotide
                     phophao                                           336            464
                     Vqaamirls
                     VdaminsA                                          327            510
                     ',ilamrns K                                       335            40
                               DIame
                               D                                       30             400
                     'V11pImrs BIcompounds
                     Pyrldolne                                      332 340           400
                     Pyridoiamine                                      335            400
                     PyTdOal                                           330            335
                     Pyndonc acid                                      315            425
                     Pyrdoxalphosphate                                5'.330          400
                     Vitamin B"                                        275            305
                     Phosphonpids                                      436         60, 560
                      Lipefuscin                                    340,395      543.430-460
                      Ceroid                                        340-395      433-450. 540
                      Porphyrins                                    40C-450        630. 5690
           FIG. I provides an exemplary electromagnetic spectrum in meters (1 nm equals
   meters).
 5         The nature of the predetermined cellular change will depend on the desired
   pharmaceutical outcome. Exemplary cellular changes may include, but are not limited to,
   apoptosis, necrosis, up-regulation of certain genes, down-regulation of certain genes,
   secretion of cytokines, alteration of cytokine receptor responses, or a combination thereof.
           As used herein, an "energy modulation agent" refers to an agent that is capable of
10 receiving an energy input from a source and then re-emitting a different energy to a receiving
   target. Energy transfer among molecules may occur in a number of ways. The furm of
   energy may be electronic, thermal, electromagnetic, kinetic, or chemical in nature. Energy
   may be transferred from one molecule to another (intermolecular transfer) or from one part of
   a molecule to another part of the same molecule (intramolecular transfer). For example, a
15 modulation agent may receive electromagnetic energy and re-emit the energy in the form of

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   19
   thermal energy. In preferred embodiments, the energy modulation agent receives higher
   energy (e.g. x-ray) and re-emits in lower energy (e.g UV-A). Some modulation agents may
   have a very short energy retention time (on the order of fs, e.g. fluorescent molecules)
   whereas others may have a very long half-life (on the order ofminutes to hours, e g,
 5 luminescent or phosphorescent molecules). Suitable energy modulation agents include, but
   are not limited to, a biocompatible fluorescing metal nanoparticle, fluorescing dye molecule,
   gold nanoparticle, a water soluble quantum dot encapsulated by polyamidoamine dendnmers,
   a luciferase, a biocompatible phosphorescent molecule, a combined electromagnetic energy
   harvester molecule, and a lanthanide chelate capable of intense luminescence. Various
to exemplary uses of these are described below in preferred embodiments.
            The modulation agents may further be coupled to a carrier for cellular targeting
   purposes. For example, a biocompatible molecule, such as a fluorescing metal nanoparticle
   or fluorescing dye molecule that emits in the UV-A band, may be selected as the energy
   modulation agent.
15          The energy modulation agent may be preferably directed to the desired site (e.g. a
   tumor) hy systemic administration to a subject. For example, a UV-A emitting energy
   modulation agent may be concentrated in the tumor site by physical insertion or by
   conjugating the UV-A emitting energy modulation agent with a tumor specific carrier, such as
   a lipid, chitin or chitin-derivative, a chelate or other functionalized carrier that is capable of
20 concentrating the UV-A emitting source in a specific target tumor.
            Additionally, the energy modulation agent can be used alone or as a series of two or
   more energy modulation agents wherein the energy modulation agents provide an energy
   cascade. Thus, the first energy modulation agent in the cascade will absorb the activation
   energy, convert it to a different energy which is then absorbed by the second energy
25 modulation in the cascade, and so forth until the end of the cascade is reached with the final
   energy modulation agent in the cascade emitting the energy necessary to activate the
    activatable pharmaceutical agent.
            Although the activatable pharmaceutical agent and the energy modulation agent can
   be distinct and separate, it will be understood that the two agents need not be independent and
30  separate entities. In fact, the two agents may be associated with each other via a number of
    different configurations. Where the two agents are independent and separately movable from
    each other, they generally interact with each other via diffusion and chance encounters within

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059S61
                                                   20
   a common surrounding medium. Where the activatable pharmaceutical agent and the energy
   modulation agent are not separate, they may be combined into one single entity.
            The initiation energy source can be any energy source capable of providing energy at a
   level sufficient to activate the activatable agent directly, or to provide the energy modulation
 5 agent with the input needed to emit the activation energy for the activatable agent (indirect
   activation). Preferable initiation energy sources include, but are not limited to, UV-A lamps
   or fiber optic lines, a light needle, an endoscope, and a linear accelerator that generates x-ray,
   gamma-ray, or electron beams. In a preferred embodiment the initiation energy capable of
   penetrating completely through the subject. Within the context of the present invention, the
1o phrase "capable of penetrating completely through the subject" is used to refer to energy that
   can penetrate to any depth within the subject to activate the activatable pharmaceutical agent.
   It is not required that the any of the energy applied actually pass completely through the
   subject, merely that it be capable of doing so in order to permit penetration to any desired
   depth to activate the activatable pharmaceutical agent. Exemplary initiation energy sources
15 that are capable of penetrating completely through the subject include, but are not limited to,
   x-rays, gamma rays, electron beams, microwaves and radio waves.
            In one embodiment, the source of the initiation energy can be a radiowave emitting
   nanotube, such as those described by K. Jensen, J. Weldon, H. Garcia, and A. Zetti in the
   Department of Physics at the University of California at Berkeley (see
20 http://socrates.berkeley.edu/-argon/nanoradio/radio.htrnl, the entire contents of which are
   hereby incorporated by reference). These nanotubes can be administered to the subject, and
   preferably would be coupled to the activatable pharmaceutical agent or the energy modulation
   agent, or both, such that upon application of the initiation energy, the nanotubes would accept
   the initiation energy (prefereably radiowaves), then emit radiowaves in close proximity to the
25 activatable pharmaceutical agent, or in close proximity to the energy modulation agent, to
   then cause activation of the activatable pharmaceutical agent. In such an embodiment, the
   nanotubes would act essentially as a radiowave focusing or amplification device in close
   proximity to the activatable pharmaceutical agent or energy modulation agent.
            Alternatively, the energy emitting source may be an energy modulation agent that
30 emits energy in a form suitable for absorption by the transfer agent. For example, the
   initiation energy source may be acoustic energy and one energy modulation agent may be
   capable of receiving acoustic energy and emitting photonic energy (e.g. sonolumirescent
   molecules) to be received by another energy modulation agent that is capable of receiving

      WO 2008/124681                                                          PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                  21
   photonic energy. Other examples include transfer agents that receive energy at x-ray
   wavelength and emit energy at UV wavelength, preferably at UV-A wavelength. As noted
   above, a plurality of such energy modulation agents may be used to form a cascade to transfer
   energy from initiation energy source via a series of energy modulation agents to activate the
 5 activatable agent.
           Signal transduction schemes as a drug delivery vehicle may be advantageously
   developed by careful modeling of the cascade events coupled with metabolic pathway
   knowledge to sequentially or simultaneously activate multiple activatable pharmaceutical
   agents to achieve multiple-point alterations in cellular function,
to         Photoactivatable agents may be stimulated by an energy source, such as irradiation,
   resonance energy transfer, exciton migration, electron injection, or chemical reaction, to an
   activated energy state that is capable of effecting the predetermined cellular change desired,
   In a preferred embodiment, the photoactivatable agent, upon activation, binds to DNA or
   RNA or other structures in a cell. The activated energy state of the agent is capable of causing
15 damage to cells, inducing apoptosis. The mechanism of apoptosis is associated with an
   enhanced immune response that reduces the growth rate of cell proliferation disorders and
   may shrink solid tumors, depending on the state of the patient's immune system,
   concentration of the agent in the tumor, sensitivity of the agent to stimulation, and length of
   stimulation.
20         A preferred method of treating a cell proliferation disorder of the present invention
   administers a photoactivatable agent to a patient, stimulates the photoactivatable agent to
   induce cell damage, and generates an auto vaccine effect, In one further preferred
   embodiment, the photoactivatable agent is stimulated via a resonance energy transfer.
           One advantage is that multiple wavelengths of emitted radiation may he used to
25 selectively stimulate one or more photoactivatable agents or energy modulation agents
   capable of stimulating the one or more photoactivatable agents. The energy modulation agent
   is preferably stimulated at a wavelength and energy that causes little or no damage to healthy
   cells, with the energy from one or more energy modulation agents being transferred, such as
   by Foerster Resonance Energy Transfer, to the photoactivatable agents that damage the cell
30 and cause the onset of the desired cellular change, such as apoptosis of the cells.
           Another advantage is that side effects can be greatly reduced by limiting the

       WO 20081124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                    22
   production of free radicals, singlet oxygen, hydroxides and other highly reactive groups that
   are known to damage healthy cells. Furthermore, additional additives, such as antioxidants,
   may be used to further reduce undesired effects of irradiation.
            Resonance Energy Transfer (RET) is an energy transfer mechanism between two
 5 molecules having overlapping emission and absorption bands. Electromagnetic emitters
   are capable of converting an arriving wavelength to a longer wavelength. For example,
   UV-13 energy absorbed by a first molecule may be transferred by a dipole-dipole
   interaction to a UV-A-emitting molecule in close proximity to the UV-B-absorbing
   molecule. Alternatively, a material absorbing a shorter wavelength may be chosen to
I0 provide RET to a non-emitting molecule that has an overlapping absorption band with the
   transferring molecule's emission hand. Alternatively, phosphorescence, chemiluminescence,
   or bioluminescence may be used to transfer energy to a photoactivatable molecule.
            Alternatively, one can administer the initiation energy source to the subject. Within
   the context of the present invention, the administering of the initiation energy source means
15 the administration ofan agent, that itself produces the initiation energy, in a manner that
   permits the agent to arrive at the target cell within the subject without being surgically
   inserted into the subject. The administration can take any form, including, but not limited to,
   oral, intravenous, intraperitoneal, inhalation, etc. Further, the initiation energy source in this
   embodiment can be in any form, including, but not limited to, tablet, powder, liquid solution,
20 liquid suspension, liquid dispersion, gas or vapor, etc. In this embodiment, the initiation
   energy source includes, but is not limited to, chemical energy sources, nanoemitters,
   nanochips, and other nanomachines that produce and emit energy of a desired frequency.
    Recent advances in nanotechnology have provided examples of various devices that are
    nanoscale and produce or emit energy, such as the Molecular Switch (or Mol-Switch) work
25 by Dr. Keith Firman of the EC Research and Development Project, or the work of Cornell et
    al. (1997) who describe the construction of nanomachines based around ion-channel switches
    only 1.5 nm in size, which use ion channels formed in an artificial membrane by two
    gramicidin molecules: one in the lower layer of the membrane attached to a gold electrode
    and one in the upper layer tethered to biological receptors such as antibodies or nucleotides.
30  When the receptor captures a target molecule or cell, the ion channel is broken, its
    conductivity drops, and the biochemical signal is converted into an electrical signal. These
    nanodevices could also be coupled with the present invention to provide targeting of the
    target cell, to deliver the initiation energy source directly at the desired site. In another

     WO 2008/124681                                                            PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                  23
   embodiment, the present invention includes the administration of the activatable
   pharmaceutical agent, along with administration of a source of chemical energy such as
   chemiluminescence, phosphorescence or bioluminescence. The source of chemical energy
   can be a chemical reaction between two or more compounds, or can be induced by activating
 5 a chemiluminesent, phosphorescent or bioluminescent compound with an appropriate
   activation energy, either outside the subject or inside the subject, with the
   chemiluminescencc, phosphorescence or bioluminescence being allowed to activate the
   activatable pharmaceutical agent in vivo after administration. The administration of the
   activatable pharmaceutical agent and the source of chernical energy can be performed
10 sequentially in any order or can be performed simultaneously. In the case of certain sources
   of such chemical energy, the administration of the chemical energy source can be performed
   after activation outside the subject, with the lifetime of the emission of the energy being up to
   several hours for certain types of phosphorescent materials for example. There are no known
   previous efforts to use resonance energy transfer of any kind to activate an intercalator to bind
15 DNA.
            Yet another example is that nanoparticles or nanoclusters of certain atoms may be
   introduced such that arc capable of resonance energy transfer over comparatively large
   distances, such as greater than one nanometer, more preferably greater than five nanometers,
   even more preferably at least 10 nanometers. Functionally, resonance energy transfer may
20 have a large enough "Foerster" distance (Re), such that nanoparticles in one part of a cell are
   capable of stimulating activation of photoactivatable agents disposed in a distant portion of
   the cell, so long as the distance does not greatly exceed Re. For example, gold nanospheres
   having a size of 5 atoms of gold have been shown to have an emission band in the ultraviolet
   range, recently.
25          The present invention treatment may also be used for inducing an auto vaccine effect
   for malignant cells, including those in solid tumors. To the extent that any rapidly dividing
   cells or stem cells may be damaged by a systemic treatment, then it may be preferable to
   direct the stimulating energy directly toward the tumor, preventing damage to most normal,
   healthy cells or stem cells by avoiding photoactivation or resonant energy transfer of the
30 photoactivatable agent.
            Alternatively, a treatment may be applied that slows or pauses mitosis. Such a
   treatment is capable of slowing the division of rapidly dividing healthy cells or stem cells

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                  24
   during the treatment, without pausing mitosis of cancerous cells. Alternatively, a blocking
   agent is administered preferentially to malignant cells prior to administering the treatment that
   slows mitosis.
            In one embodiment, an aggrcssivc cell proliferation disorder has a much higher rate of
 5 mitosis, which leads to selective destruction of a disproportionate share of the malignant cells
   during even a systemically administered treatment. Stem cells and healthy cells may be spared
   from wholesale programmed cell death, even if exposed to photoactivated agents, provided
   that such photoactivated agents degenerate from the excited state to a lower energy state prior
   to binding, mitosis or other mechanisms for creating damage to the cells of a substantial
10 fraction of the healthy stem cells. Thus, an auto-immune response may not be induced.
            Alternatively, a blocking agent may be used that prevents or reduces damage to stem
   cells or healthy cells, selectively, which would otherwise be impaired. The blocking agent is
   selected or is administered such that the blocking agent does not impart a similar benefit to
   malignant cells, for example.
15          In one embodiment, stem cells are targeted, specifically, for destruction with the
   intention of replacing the stem cells with a donor cell line or previously stored, healthy cells
   of the patient. In this case, no blocking agent is used. Instead, a carrier or photosensitizer is
   used that specifically targets the stem cells.
            Any of the photoactivatable agents may be exposed to an excitation energy source
20 implanted in a tumor, The photoactive agent may be directed to a receptor site by a carrier
   having a strong affinity for the receptor site Within the context of the present invention, a
   "strong affinity" is preferably an affinity having an equilibrium dissociation constant, Ki, at
   least in the nanomolar, nM, range or higher. Preferably, the carrier may be a polypeptide and
   may form a covalent bond with a photoactive agent, for example. The polypeptide may be an
25 insulin, interleukin, thymopoictin or transferrin, for example. Alternatively, a photoactive
   agent may have a strong affinity for the target cell without binding to a carrier.
            A receptor site may be any of the following: nucleic acids of nucleated blood cells,
   molecule receptor sites of nucleated blood cells, the antigenic sites on nucleated blood cells,
   epitopes, or other sites where photoactive agents are capable of destroying a targeted cell.
3C          In one embodiment, thin fiber optic lines are inserted in the tumor and laser light is
   used to photoactivate the agents. In another embodiment, a plurality of sources for supplying
   electroinagnetic radiation energy or energy transfer are provided by one or more molecules
   administered to a patient. The molecules may emit stimulating radiation in the correct band of

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                   25
   wavelength to stimulate the photoactivatable agents, or the molecules may transfer energy by
   a resonance energy transfer or other mechanism directly to the photoactivatable agent or
   indirectly by a cascade effect via other molecular interactions.
            In another embodiment, the patient's own cells are removed and genetically modified
 5 to provide photonic emissions. For example, tumor or healthy cells may be removed,
   genetically modified to induce bioluminescence and may be reinserted at the site of the tumor
   to be treated, The modified, bioluminescent cells may be further modified to prevent further
   division of the cells or division of the cells only so long as a regulating agent is present.
   Administration of an intercalator, systemically or targeting tumor cells, that is capable of
1o photoactivation by bioluminescent cells may produce conditions suitable for creating an auto
   vaccine effect due to apoptosis of malignant cells. Preferably, apoptosis triggers and
   stimulates the body to develop an immune response targeting the malignant cells,
            In a further embodiment, a biocompatible emitting source, such as a fluorescing metal
   nanoparticle or fluorescing dye molecule, is selected that emits in the UV-A band. The
15 UV-A emitting source is directed to the site of a tumor. The UV-A emitting source may be
   directed to the site of the tumor by systemically administering the UV-A emitting source.
   Preferably, the UV-A emitting source is concentrated in the tumor site, such as by physical
   insertion or by conjugating the UV-A emitting molecule with a turnor specific carrier, such as
   a lipid, chitin or chitin-derivative, a chelate or other functionalized carrier that is capable of
20 concentrating the UV-A emitting source in a specific target tumor, as is known in the art,
            In one preferred embodiment, the UV-A emitting source is a gold nanoparticle
   comprising a cluster of 5 gold atoms, such as a water soluble quantum dot encapsulated by
   polyamidoamine dendrimers. The gold atom clusters may be produced through a slow
   reduction of gold salts (e.g. HAuCI 4 or AuBr 3 ) or other encapsulating mines,       for example.
25 One advantage of such a gold nanoparticle is the increased Foerster distance (i.e. R0 ), which
   may be greater than 100 angstroms. The equation for determining the Foerster distance is
   substantially different from that for molecular fluorescence, which is limited to use at
   distances less than 100 angstroms. It is believed that the gold nanoparticles are governed by
   nanoparticle surface to dipole equations with a I/R 4 distance dependence rather than a t/R 6
30 distance dependence. For example, this permits cytoplasmic to nuclear energy transfer
   between metal nanoparticles and a photoactivatable molecule, such as a psoralen and more
   preferably an 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP) administered orally to a patient, which is known to
   be safe and effective at inducing an apoptosis of leukocytes.

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   26
            In another embodiment, a UV- or light-emitting luciferase is selected as the emitting
   source for exciting a photoactivatable agent. A luciferase may be combined with ATP or
   another molecule, which may then be oxygenated with additional molecules to stimulate light
   emission at a desired wavelength. Alternatively, a phosphorescent emitting source may be
 5 used. One advantage of a phosphorescent emitting source is that the phosphorescent emitting
   molecules or other source may be electroactivated or photoactivated prior to insertion into the
   tumor either by systemic administration or direct insertion into the region of the tumor.
   Phosphorescent materials may have longer relaxation times than fluorescent materials,
   because relaxation of a triplet state is subject to forbidden energy state transitions, storing the
10 energy in the excited triplet state with only a limited number of quantum mechanical energy
   transfer processes available for returning to the lower energy state. Energy emission is
   delayed or prolonged from a fraction of a second to several hours. Otherwise, the energy
   emitted during phosphorescent relaxation is not otherwise different than fluorescence, and the
   range of wavelengths may be selected by choosing a particular phosphor.
15          In another embodiment, a combined electromagnetic energy harvester molecule is
   designed, such as the combined light harvester disclosed in J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127,
   9760-9768, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. By combining
   a group of fluorescent molecules in a molecular structure, a resonance energy transfer cascade
   may be used to harvest a wide band of electromagnetic radiation resulting in emission of a
20 narrow band of fluorescent energy. By pairing a combined energy harvester with a
   photoactivatable molecule, a further energy resonance transfer excites the photoactivatable
   molecule, when the photoactivatable molecule is nearby stimulated combined energy
   harvester molecules. Another example of a harvester molecule is disclosed in Figure 4 of
   "Singlct-Singlet and Triplet-Triplet Energy Transfer in Bichromophoric Cyclic Peptides,"
25 M.S. Thesis by M.O. Guler, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, May 18, 2002, which is
   incorporated herein by reference,
            In another embodiment, a Stokes shift of an emitting source or a series of emitting
   sources arranged in a cascade is selected to convert a shorter wavelength energy, such as X
   rays, to a longer wavelength fluorescence emission such a optical or UV-A, which is used to
3J stimulate a photoactivatable molecule at the location of the tumor cells, Preferably, the
   photoactivatable molecule is selected to cause an apoptosis sequence in tumor cells without
   causing substantial harm to normal, healthy cells. More preferably, the apoptosis sequence

      WO 2008/124681                                                          PCT/US2008/059561
                                                  27
   then leads to an auto vaccine effect that targets the malignant tumor cells throughout the
   patient's body.
            In an additional embodiment, the photoactivatable agent can be a photocaged complex
   having an active agent (which can be a cytotoxic agent or can be an activatable
 5 pharmaceutical agent) contained within a photocage. The active agent is bulked up with other
   molecules that prevent it from binding to specific targets, thus masking its activity. When the
   photocage complex is photoactivated, the bulk falls off, exposing the active agent. In such a
   photocage complex, the photocage molecules can be photoactive (i.e. when photoactivated,
   they are caused to dissociate from the photocage complex, thus exposing the active agent
to within), or the active agent can be the photoactivatable agent (which when photoactivated
   causes the photocage to fall off), or both the photocage and the active agent are
   photoactivated, with the same or different wavelengths. For example, a toxic
   chemotherapeutic agent can be photocaged, which will reduce the systemic toxicity when
   delivered. Once the agent is concentrated in the tumor, the agent is irradiated with an
15 activation energy. This causes the "cage" to fall off, leaving a cytotoxic agent in the tumor
   cell. Suitable photocages include those disclosed by Young and Deiters in "Photochemical
   Control of Biological Processes", Org. BiomoL Chem., 5, pp. 999 - 1005 (2007) and
   "Photochemical Hammerhead Ribozyme Activation", Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry
   Letters, 16(10) ,pp. 2658-2661 (2006), the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
20 reference.
            In a further embodiment, some of the tumor cells are treated in vitro using a UV-A
   source to stimulate 8-MOP. Apoptosis of the tumor cells is monitored, and some or all of the
   fragments and remnants of the apoptosis process are reintroduced into the site of a tumor,
   Preferably, the portion of fragments, cellular structures and remnants are selected such that an
25 auto vaccine effect is generated that leads to further apoptosis of tumor cells without
   substantially harming healthy tissues, causing solid tumors to shrink.
            In one embodiment, a lanthanide chelate capable of intense luminescence is used. For
   example, a lanthanide chelator may be covalently joined to a coumarin or coumarin derivative
   or a quinolone or quinolone-derivative sensitizer, Sensitizers may be a 2- or 4-quinolone, a 2
30 or 4- cournarin, or derivatives or combinations of these examples. A carbostyril 124 (7
    amino-4-methyl-2-quinolone), a coumarm 120 (7-amino-4-methyl-2-coumarin), a coumarin
    124 (7-amino-4-(trifluoromethy l)-2-coumarin), aminoinethyltrinethylpsoralen or other
   similar sensitizer may be used. Chelates may be selected to form high affinity complexes with

     WO 2008/124681                                                                   PCT/US2008/059561
                                                     28
   lanthanides, such as terbium or europium, through chelator groups, such as DTPA. Such
   chelates may be coupled to any ofa wide variety of well known probes or carriers, and may
   be used for resonance energy transfer to a psoralen or psoralen-derivative, such as S-MOP, or
   other photoactive molecules capable of binding DNA and causing the initiation of an
 5 apoptosis process of rapidly dividing cancer cells. In this way, the treatment may be targeted
   to especially aggressive forms of cell proliferation disorders that are not successfully treated
   by conventional chemotherapy, radiation or surgical techniques, In one alternative example,
   the lanthanide chelate is localized at the site of the tumor using an appropriate carrier
   molecule, particle or polymer, and a source of electromagnetic energy is introduced by
1o minimally invasive procedures to irradiate the tumor cells, after exposure to the lanthanide
   chelate and a photoactive molecule.
           In another embodiment, a biocompatible, endogenous fluorophore emitter is selected
   to stimulate resonance energy transfer to a photoactivatable molecule, A biocompatible
   emitter with an emission maxima within the absorption range of the biocompatible,
15 endogenous fluorophore emitter may be selected to stimulate an excited state in fluorophore
   emitter. One or more halogen atoms may be added to any cyclic ring structure capable of
   intercalation between the stacked nucleotide bases in a nucleic acid (either DNA or RNA) to
   confer new photoactive properties to the intercalator. Any intercalating molecule (psoralens,
   coumarins, or other polycyclic ring structures) may be selectively modified by halogenation or
2C addition of non-hydrogen bonding ionic substituents to impart advantages in its reaction
   photochemistry and its competitive binding affinity for nucleic acids over cell membranes or
   charged proteins, as is known in the art.
           Recently, phatosensitizers have been developed for treating cell proliferation disorders
   using photodynanic tlicapy. Table 3 provides an assortment ofknowII photosensitizers that
25 are useful in treating cell proliferation disorders.
                     Table 3: Photosensitizers for cell proliferation disorders.
               Pho9aqsianlIer      Dge-     Qru-at interval  Wavelongtihuf activation    Length of photosensitiatfl oi
               PholtfrIn (1))     2 mglkg         48 hri     -      63' nm                        4-6 weeks
               Foscan            0.1 mgikg      4-8 days            652 nM                         2weeks
               Lutotlum tenhyrin 2-6 mglkg     3 to 24 hrs          732 nr                        24-46 hrs
           Skin photosensitivity is a major toxicity of the photosensitizers. Severe sunburn
   occurs if skin is exposed to direct sunlight for even a few minutes. Early murine research
   hinted at a vigorous and long term stimulation of immune response; however, actual clinical

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   29
   testing has failed to achieve the early promises of photodynamic therapies. The early
   photosensitizers for photodynamic therapies targeted type Il responses, which created singlet
   oxygen when photoactivated in the presence of oxygen. The singlet oxygen caused cellular
   necrosis and was associated with inflammation and an immune response, However, tumors
 5 are now known to down regulate the immune response over time, and it is thought that this is
   one of the reasons that clinical results are not as dramatic as promised by the early murine
   research. Some additional photosensitizers have been developed to induce type I responses,
   directly damaging cellular structures, which result in apoptosis of tumor cells.
            Porfimer sodium (Photofrin; QLT Therapeutics, Vancouver, BC, Canada), is a
to partially purified preparation of hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD). Photofrin has been
   approved by the US Food and Drug Adininisration for the treatment of obstructing esophageal
   cancer, microinvasive endobronchial non-small cell lung cancer, and obstructing
   endobronchial non-small cell lung cancer. Photofrin is activated with 630 nm, which has a
   tissue penetration of approximately 2 to 5 mm. Photofrin has a relatively long duration of skin
15 photosensitivity (approximately 4 to 6 weeks).
            Tetra (m-hydroxyphenyl) chlorin (Foscan; Scotia Pharmaceuticals, Stirling, UK), is a
   synthetic chlorin compound that is activated by 652 nm light. Clinical studies have
   demonstrated a tissue effect of up to 10 mm with Foscan and 652 nm light. Foscan is more
    selectively a photosensitizer in tumors than normal tissues, and requires a comparatively short
20  light activation time. A recommended dose of 0.1 mg/kg is comparatively low and
    comparatively low doses of light may be used. Nevertheless, duration of skin photosensitivity
    is reasonable (approximately 2 weeks). However, Foscan induces a comparatively high yield
    of singlet oxygen, which may be the primary mechanism of DNA damage for this molecule.
            Motexafin lutetium (Lutetium texaphryin) is activated by light in the near infared
25  region (732 nm). Absorption at this wavelength has the advantage of potentially deeper
    penetration into tissues, compared with the amount of light used to activate other
    photosensitizers (Figs. 2A and 2B). Lutetium texaphryin also has one of the greatest reported
    selectivities for tumors compared to selectivities of normal tissues. Young SW, e: al.:
    Lutetium texaphyrin (PCI-0123) a near-infrared, water-soluble photosensiti7er. Photochem
30  Photobiol 1996, 63:892-897. In addition, its clinical use is associated with a shorter duration
    of skin photosensitivity (24 to 48 hours). Lutetium texaphryin has been evaluated for
    metastatic skin cancers. It is currently under investigation for treatment of recurrent breast

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                    30
   cancer and for locally recurrent prostate cancer. The high selectivity for tumors promises
   improved results in clinical trials.
             In general, the approach may be used with any source for the excitation of higher
   electronic energy states, such as electrical, chemical and/or radiation, individually or
 5 combined into a system for activating an activatable molecule, The process may be a
   photophoresis process or may be similar to photophoresis. While photophoresis is generally
   thought to be limited to photonic excitation, such as by U V-light, other forms of radiation
   may be used as a part of a system to activate an activatable molecule. Radiation includes
   ionizing radiation which is high energy radiation, such as an X-ray or a gamma ray, which
10 interacts to produce ion pairs in matter. Radiation also includes high linear energy transfer
   irradiation, low linear energy transfer irradiation, alpha rays, beta rays, neutron beams,
   accelerated electron beams, and ultraviolet rays. Radiation also includes proton, photon and
   fission-spectrum neutrons. Higher energy ionizing radiation may be combined with chemical
   processes to produce energy states favorable for resonance energy transfer, for example. Other
15  combinations and variations of these sources of excitation energy may be combined as is
    known in the art, in order to stimulate the activation of an activatable molecule, such as 8
    MOP. In one example, ionizing radiation is directed at a solid tumor and stimulates, directly
    or indirectly, activation of 8-MOP, as well as directly damaging the DNA of malignant tumor
    cells. In this example, either the effect of ionizing radiation or the photophoresis-like
20  activation of 8-MOP may be thought of as an adjuvant therapy to the other.
             In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method for treating a cell
    proliferation disorder in a subject, comprising:
             (1) administering to the subject an activatable pharmaceutical agent that is capable of
                       effecting a predetermined cellular change when activated; and
25           (2) applying an initiation energy from an initiation energy source to the subject,
    wherein the initiation energy source is a source of energy capable of penetrating completely
    though the subject, and wherein the applying activates the activatable agent in situ,
             - thus causing the predetermined cellular change to occur, wherein occurrence of the
    predetermined cellular change causes an increase in rate or decrease in rate of cell
30  proliferation to treat the cell proliferation disorder.
              In a further embodiment, the present invention provides a method for treating a cell
    proliferation disorder in a subject, comprising:

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                    31
            (1) administering to the subject one or more energy modulation agents and an
   activatable pharmaceutical agent that is capable of effecting a predetermined cellular change
   when activated; and
            (2) applying an initiation energy from an initiation energy source to the subject,
 5          wherein the one or more energy modulation agents convert the initiation energy
   applied to UV-A or visible energy, which then activates the activatable agent in situ,
            - thus causing the predetermined cellular change to occur, wherein occurrence of the
   predetermined cellular change causes an increase in rate or decrease in rate of cell
   proliferation to treat the cell proliferation disorder.
iU           In a further embodiment, the present invention provides a method for treating a cell
   proliferation disorder in a subject, comprising:
             (1) administering to the subject an activatable pharmaceutical agent that is capable of
   effecting a predetermined cellular change when activated; and
             (2) applying an initiation energy from an initiation energy source to the subject,
15           wherein the initiation energy applied and activatable pharmaceutical agent upon
   activation produce insufficient singlet oxygen in the subject to produce cell lysis, and wherein
   the initiation energy activates the activatable pharmaceutical agent in 5itu,
             - thus causing the predetermined cellular change to occur, wherein occurrence of the
   predetermined cellular change causes an increase in rate or decrease in rate of cell
20 proliferation to treat the cell proliferation disorder.
             Work in the area of photodynamic therapy has shown that the amount of singlet
   oxygen required to cause cell lysis, and thus cell death, is 0.32 x 10- mol/liter or more, or 10'
   singlet oxygen molecules/cell or more. However, in the present invention, it is most
   preferable to avoid production of an amount of singlet oxygen that would cause cell lysis, due
25 to its indiscriminate nature of attack, lysing both target cells and healthy cells. Accordingly, it
   is most preferred in the present invention that the level of singlet oxygen production caused
   by the initiation energy used or activatable pharmaceutical agent upon activation be less than
   level needed to cause cell lysis.
             In yet another embodiment, the activatable pharmaceutical agent, preferably a
3C photoactive agent, is directed to a receptor site by a carrier having a strong affinity for the
   receptor site. The carrier may be a polypeptide and may form a covalent bond with a photo
   active agent, for example. The polypeptide may be an insulin, interleukin, thymopoietin or

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   32
   transferring, for example. Alternatively, a photoactive pharmaceutical agent may have a strong
   affinity for the target cell without a binding to a carrier.
            For example, a treatment may be applied that acts to slow or pause mitosis. Such a
   treatment is capable of slowing the division of rapidly dividing healthy cells or stem cells
 5 without pausing mitosis of cancerous cells. Thus, the difference in growth rate between the
   non-target cells and target cells are further differentiated to enhance the effectiveness of the
   methods of the present invention.
            In another example, an aggressive cell proliferation disorder has a much higher rate of
   mitosis, which leads to selective destruction of a disproportionate share of the malignant cells
10 during even a systemically administered treatment. Stem cells and healthy cells may be
   spared from wholesale programmed cell death even if exposed to photoactivated agents that
   cause apoptosis, provided that such photoactivated agents degenerate from the excited state to
   a lower energy state prior to binding, mitosis or other mechanisms for creating damage to the
   cells oFa substantial fraction of the healthy stem cells. To further protect healthy cells from
15 the effect of photoactivatable agents, blocking agents that block uptake of the
   photoactivatable agents, prior to their activation, may be administered.
            U.S. Patent 6,235,508, discloses that a variety of blocking agents have been found to
   be suitable for this purpose, some of which are traditional antioxidants, and some of which
   are not. Suitable blocking agents include, but are not limited to, histidine, cysteine, tryrosine,
20 tryptophan, ascorbate, N-acetyl cysteine, propyl gallate, mercaptopropionyl glycine, butylated
   hydroxytoluene (BHT) and butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA),
            In a further embodiment, methods in accordance with the present invention may
   further include adding an additive to alleviate treatment side-effects. Exemplary additives
   may include, but are not limited to, antioxidants, adjuvant, or combinations thereof. In one
25  cxcmplary embodiment, psoralen is used as the activatable pharmaceutical agent, UV-A is
   used as the activating energy, and antioxidants are added to reduce the unwanted side-effects
   of irradiation,
            The activatable pharmaceutical agent and derivatives thereof as well as the energy
   modulation agent, can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for
30  administration. Such compositions typically comprise the activatable pharmaceutical agent
    and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition also comprises at
    least one additive having a complementary therapeutic or diagnostic effect, wherein the
    additive is one selected from an antioxidant, an adjuvant, or a combination thereof

      WO 2OR/124681                                                            PCT/UtS2008/059561
                                                   33
             As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" is intended to include any and
   all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and
   absorption delaying agents, and the like, compatible with pharmaceutical administration. The
   use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art.
 5 Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound,
   use thereof in the compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also
   be incorporated into the compositions. Modifications can be made to the compound of the
   present invention to affect solubility or clearance of the compound. These molecules may also
   be synthesized with D-amino acids to increase resistance to enzymatic degradation. If
tu necessary, the activatable pharmaceutical agent can be co-administered with a solubilizing
   agent, such as cyclodextran.
            A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with its
   intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral,
   e.g., intravenous, intradermal, subcutaneous, oral (e g., inhalation), transdermal (topical),
15 transmucosal, rectal administration, and direct injection into the affected area, such as direct
   injection into a tumor. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral, intradermal, or
   subcutaneous application can include the following components: a sterile diluent such as
   water for injection, saline solution, fixed oils, polyethylene glycols, glycerin, propylene glycol
   or other synthetic solvents; antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens;
20 antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as
   cthylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as acetates, citrates or phosphates, and agents
   for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The pH can be adjusted
   with acids or bases, such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral
   preparation can be enclosed in ampoules, disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of
25 glass or plastic.
            Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous
   solutions (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous
   preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration,
   suitable carriers include physiological saline, bacteriostatic water, or phosphate buffered
30 saline (PBS). In all cases, the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent
   that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and
   storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action ofimicroorganisrns such as
   bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                   34
   example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid
   polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be
   maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the
   required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the
 5 action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and anti fungal agents, for
   example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many
   cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars, polyalcohols such
   as manitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the
   injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which
10 delays absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
            Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in
   the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients
   enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are
   prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle that contains a basic
Is dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the
   case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, methods of
   preparation arc vacuum drying and freeze-drying that yields a powder of the active ingredient
   plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof.
            Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier, They can be
20 enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral therapeutic
   administration, the active compound can be incorporated with recipients and used in the form
   of tablets, troches, or capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier
   for use as a mouthwash, wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally and
   swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents, and/or
25 adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets, pills, capsules,
   troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients, or compounds of a similar
   nature: a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient
   such as starch or lactose, a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid, Primogel, or corn starch;
    a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide;
30  a sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring agent such as peppermint,
    methyl salicylate, or orange flavoring.

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCTIIJS2008/059561
                                                   35
            For administration by inhalation, the compounds are delivered in the form of an
   aerosol spray from pressured container or dispenser which contains a suitable propellant, e.g.,
   a gas such as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizcr.
            Systemic administration can also be by transmucosal or transdermal means, For
 5 transmucosal or transdcrmal administration, penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be
   permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art, and
   include, for example, for transmucosal administration, detergents, bile salts, and tusidic acid
   derivatives. Transmucosal administration can be accomplished through the use of nasal sprays
   or suppositories. For transdermal administration, the active compounds are formulated into
1I ointments, salves, gels, or creams as generally known in the art.
            The compounds can also be prepared in the form of suppositories (e.g., with
   conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter and other glycerides) or retention enemas
   for rectal delivery.
             In one embodiment, the active compounds are prepared with carriers that will protect
15 the compound against rapid elimination from the body, such as a controlled release
    formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable,
   biocompatible polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides,
   polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of
   such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be
20  obtained commercially, Liposomal suspensions (including liposomes targeted to infected cells
    with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens) can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable
    carriers. These can be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art, for
    example, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,522,811.
             It is especially advantageous to formulate oral or parenteral comrlpositions inl dosage
25  unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used
    herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject to be treated;
    each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the
    desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The
    specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent
3C  on the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to
    be achieved, and the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound
    for the treatment of individuals.

      WO 2008/1 24681                                                          PCTIU S2008/059561
                                                   36
            The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack, or dispenser
   together with instructions for administration.
            Methods of administering agents according to the present invention are not limited to
   the conventional means such as injection or oral infusion, but include more advanced and
 5 complex forms of energy transfer. For example, genetically engineered cells that carry and
   express energy modulation agents may be used. Cells from the host may be trans fected with
   genetically engineered vectors that express bioluminescent agents. Transfection may be
   accomplished via in situ gene therapy techniques such as injection of viral vectors or gene
   guns, or may be performed ex vivo by removing a sample of the host's cells and then
Io returning to the host upon successful transfection.
            Such transfected cells may be inserted or otherwise targeted at the site where diseased
   cells are located. In this embodiment, the initiation energy source may be a biochemical
   source as such ATP, in which case the initiation energy source is considered to be directly
   implanted in the transfected cell. Altemativcly, a conventional micro-emitter device capable
15 of acting as an initiation energy source may be transplanted at the site of the diseased cells.
            It will also be understood that the order of administering the different ages is not
   particularly limited, Thus in some embodiments the activatable pharmaceutical agent may be
   administered before the energy modulation agent, while in other embodiments the energy
   modulation agent may be administered prior to the activatable pharmaceutical agent. It will
20 be appreciated that different combinations of ordering may be advantageously employed
   depending on factors such as the absorption rate of the agents, the localization and molecular
   trafficking properties of the agents, and other pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics
   considerations.
            An advantage of the methods of the present invention is that by specifically targeting
25 cells affected by a cell proliferation disorder, such as rapidly dividing cells, and triggering a
   cellular change, such as apoptosis, in these cells in situ, the immune system of the host may
   be stimulated to have an immune response against the diseased cells, Once the host's own
   immune system is stimulated to have such a response, other diseased cells that are not treated
   by the activatable pharmaceutical agent may be recognized and be destroyed by the host's
3D own immune system. Such autovaccine effects may be obtained, for example, in treatments
   using psoralen and UV-A.
            In another aspect, the present invention also provides methods for producing an
   autovaccine, including: (1) providing a population of targeted cells; (2) treating the cells ex

      WO 2008/124681                                                             PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                    37
   vivo with a psoralen or a derivative thereof; (3) activating the psoralen with a UV-A source to
   induce apoptosis in the targeted cells; and (4) returning the apoptic cells back to the host to
   induce an autovaccire effect against the targeted cell, wherein the apoptic cells cause an
   autovaccine effect.
 5         A further embodiment is the use of the present invention for the treatment of skin
   cancer. In this example, a photoactivatable agent, preferably psoralen, is given to the patient,
   and is delivered to the skin lesion via the blood supply. An activation source having limited
   penetration ability (such as UV   Or  IR) is shined directly on the skin - in the case of psoralen,
   it would be a UV light, or an IR source. With the use of an IR source, the irradiation would
10 penetrate deeper and generate UV via two single photon events with psoralen.
           In a further embodiment, methods according to this aspect of the present invention
   further include a step of separating the components of apoptic cells into fractions and testing
   each fraction for autovaccine effect in a host. The components thus isolated and identified
   may then serve as an effective autovaccine to stimulate the host's immune system to suppress
15 growth of the targeted cells.
           The present invention methods can be used alone or in combination with other
   therapies for treatment of cell proliferation disorders. Additionally, the present invention
   methods can be used, if desired, in conjunction with recent advances in chronomedicine, such
   as that detailed in Giacchetti et al, Journalof Clinical Oncology, Vol 24, No 22 (August 1),
20 2006: pp. 3562-3569. In chronomedicine it has been found that cells suffering from certain
   types of disorders, such as cancer, respond better at certain times of the day than at others.
   Thus, chronomedicine could be used in conjunction with the present methods in order to
   augment the effect of the treatments of the present invention.
           In another aspect, the present invention further provides systems and kits for
25 practicing the above described methods.
           In one embodiment, a system in accordance with the present invention may include:
   (1) an initiation energy source; (2) one or more energy modulation agents; and (3) one or
   more activatable pharmaceutical agents.
            In another embodiment, a system in accordance with the present invention may
3D include an initiation energy source and one or more activatable pharmaceutical agents.
           FIG. 3 illustrates a system according to one exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention. Referring to FIG. 3, an exemplary system according to one embodiment of the
   present invention may have an initiation energy source I directed at the subject 4. An

      WO 2008/124681                                                          PCT/US2008/059561
                                                   38
   activatable pharmaceutical agent 2 and an energy modulation agent 3 are administered to the
   subject 4. The initiation energy source may additionally be controlled by a computer system 5
   that is capable of directing the delivery of the initiation energy.
            In preferred embodiments, the initiation energy source may be a linear accelerator
 5 equipped with image guided computer-control capability to deliver a precisely calibrated
   beam ofradiation to a pre-selected coordinate. One example of such linear accelerators is the
   SmartBeammTM IMRT (intensity modulated radiation therapy) system from Varian medical
   systems (Varian Medical Systems, Inc., Palo Alto, California).
            In other embodiments, endoscopic or laproscopic devices equipped with appropriate
to initiation energy emitter may be used as the initiation energy source. In such systems, the
   initiation energy may be navigated and positioned at the pre-selected coordinate to deliver the
   desired amount of initiation energy to the site.
            In further embodiments, dose calculation and robotic manipulation devices may also
   be included in the system.
15          In yet another embodiment, there is also provided a computer implemented system for
   designing and selecting suitable combinations of initiation energy source, energy transfer
   agent, and activatable pharmaceutical agent, comprising:
            a central processing unit (CPU) having a storage medium on which is provided:
                    a database of excitable compounds;
20                  a first computation module for identifying and designing an excitable
            compound that is capable of binding with a target cellular structure or component; and
                    a second computation module predicting the resonance absorption energy of
            the excitable compound,
            wherein the system, upon selection of a target cellular structure or component,
25 computes an excitable compound that is capable of binding with the target structure followed
   by a computation to predict the resonance absorption energy of the excitable compound.
            FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary computer implemented system according to this
   embodiment of the present invention. Referring to FIG. 4, an exemplary computer
   implemented system according to one embodiment of the present invention may have a
3C central processing unit (CPU) connected to a memory unit, configured such that the CPU is
   capable of processing user inputs and selecting a combination of initiation source, activatable
   pharmaceutical agent, and energy transfer agent based on an energy spectrum comparison for
   use in a method of the present invention.

      WO 2008/124681                                                         PCTUS2008/059561
                                                  39
            FIG. 5 illustrates a computer system 1201 for implementing various embodiments of
   the present invention. The computer system 1201 may be used as the controller 55 to perform
   any or all of the functions of the CPU described above. The computer system 1201 includes a
   bus 1202 or other communication mechanism for communicating information, and a
 5 processor 1203 coupled with the bus 1202 for processing the information. The computer
   system 1201 also includes a main memory 1204, such as a random access memory (RAM) or
   other dynamic storage device (e.g., dynamic RAM (DRAM), static RAM (SRAM), and
   synchronous DRAM (SDRAM)), coupled to the bus 1202 for storing information and
   instructions to be executed by processor 1203. In addition, the main memory 1204 may be
 u used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during the execution of
   instructions by the processor 1203. The computer system 1201 further includes a read only
   memory (ROM) 1205 or other static storage device (e.g,, programmable ROM (PROM),
   erasable PROM (EPROM), and electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM)) coupled to the bus
    1202 for storing static information and instructions for the processor 1203.
15          The computer system 1201 also includes a disk controller 1206 coupled to the bus
    1202 to control one or more storage devices for storing information and instructions, such as
   a magnetic hard disk 1207, and a removable media drive 1208 (e.g., floppy disk drive, read
   only compact disc drive, read/write compact disc drive, compact disc jukebox, tape drive, and
   removable magneto-optical drive). The storage devices may be added to the computer system
20  1201 using an appropriate device interface (e.g., small computer system interface (SCSI),
   integrated device electronics (IDE), enhanced-IDE (E-IDE), direct memory access (DMA), or
   ultra-DMA).
            The computer system 1201 may also include special purpose logic devices (e.g.,
   application specific integrated circuits (ASICs)) or configurable logic devices (e.g., simple
25 programmable logic devices (SPLDs), complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs), and
    field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs)).
            The computer system 1201 may also include a display controller 1209 coupled to the
   bus 1202 to control a display 1210, such as a cathode ray tube (CRT), for displaying
    information to a computer user, The computer system includes input devices, such as a
30  keyboard 1211 and a pointing device 1212, for interacting with a computer user and providing
    information to the processor 1203. The pointing device 1212, for example, may be a mouse,
    a trackball, or a pointing stick for communicating direction information and command
    selections to the processor 1203 and for controlling cursor movement on the display 1210. In

      WO 2008/124681                                                          PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                   40
   addition, a printer may provide printed listings of data stored and/or generated by the
   computer system 1201.
            The computer system 1201 performs a portion or all of the processing steps of the
   invention (such as for example those described in relation to FIG. 5) in response to the
 5 processor 1203 executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in a
   memory, such as the main memory 1204. Such instructions may be read into the main
   memory 1204 from another computer readable medium, such as a hard disk 1207 or a
   removable media drive 1208. One or more processors in a multi-processing arrangement may
   also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in main memory 1204.
10 In alternative embodiments, hard-wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination
   with software instructions. Thus, embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of
   hardware circuitry and software.
             As stated above, the computer system 1201 includes at least one computer readable
   medium or memory for holding instructions programmed according to the teachings of the
15 invention and for containing data structures, tables, records, or other data described herein.
   Examples of computer readable media arc compact discs, hard disks, floppy disks, tape,
   magneto-optical disks, PROMs (EPROM, EEPROM, flash EPROM), DRAM, SRAM,
   SDRAM, or any other magnetic medium, compact discs (e.g., CD-ROM), or any other optical
   medium, punch cards, paper tape, or other physical medium with patterns of holes, a carrier
20 wave (described below), or any other medium from which a computer can read.
             Stored on any one or on a combination of computer readable media, the present
   invention includes software for controlling the computer system 1201, for driving a device or
   devices for implementing the invention, and for enabling the computer system 1201 to
   interact with a humiiani user (e.g., print production personnel). Such software may include, but
25 is not limited to, device drivers, operating systems, development tools, and applications
   software. Such computer readable media further includes the computer program product of
   the present invention for performing all or a portion (if processing is distributed) of the
   processing performed in implementing the invention.
             The computer code devices of the present invention may be any interpretable or
3C executable code mechanism, including but not limited to scripts, interpretable programs,
   dynamic link libraries (DLLs), Java classes, and complete executable programs. Moreover,
   parts of the processing of the present invention may be distributed for better performance,
    reliability, and/or cost.

      WO 2001/24681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                  41
           The term "computer readable medium" as used herein refers to any medium that
   participates in providing instructions to the processor 1203 for execution. A computer
   readable medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media,
   volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical,
 5 magnetic disks, and magneto-optical disks, such as the hard disk 1207 or the removable
   media drive 1208. Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as the main memory 1204.
   Transmission media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires
   that make up the bus 1202. Transmission media also may also take the form of acoustic or
   light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.
1C         Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying out one or
   more sequences of one or more instructions to processor 1203 for execution. For example,
   the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote
   computer can load the instructions for implementing all or a portion of the present invention
   remotely into a dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a
15 modem. A modem local to the computer system 1201 may receive the data on the telephone
   line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared
   detector coupled to the bus 1202 can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place
   the data on the bus 1202. The bus 1202 carries the data to the main memory 1204, from
   which the processor 1203 retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received
20 by the main memory 1204 may optionally be stored on storage device 1207 or 1208 either
   before or after execution by processor 1203.
            The computer system 1201 also includes a communication interface 1213 coupled to
   the bus 1202. The communication interface 1213 provides a two-way data communication
   coupling to a network link 1214 that is connected to, for example, a lucal area network (LAN)
25  1215, or to another communications network 1216 such as the Internet. For example, the
    communication interface 1213 may be a network interface card to attach to any packet
    switched LAN. As another example, the communication interface 1213 may be an
    asymmetrical digital subscriber line (ADSL) card, an integrated services digital network
    (ISDN) card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type
30  of communications line. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such
    implementation, the communication interface      1213 sends and receives electrical,
    electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of
    information.

      WO 2008/124681                                                            PCT/US2008/059561
                                                  42
           The network link 1214 typically provides data communication through one or more
   networks to other data devices. For example, the network link 1214 may provide a
   connection to another computer through a local network 1215 (e.g., a LAN) or through
   equipment operated by a service provider, which provides communication services through a
 5 communications network 1216. The local network 1214 and the communications network
   1216 use, for example, electrical, electromagnetic, or optical signals that carry digital data
   streams, and the associated physical layer (e.g., CAT 5 cable, coaxial cable, optical fiber, etc).
   The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link 1214 and
   through the communication interface 1213, which carry the digital data to and from the
10 computer system 1201 maybe implemented in baseband signals, or carrier wave based
   signals. The baseband signals convey the digital data as unmodulated electrical pulses that
   are descriptive of a stream of digital data bits, where the term "bits" is to be construed broadly
   to mean syrnbol, where each symbol conveys at least one or more information bits. The
   digital data may also be used to modulate a carrier wave, such as with amplitude, phase
15 and/or frequency shift keyed signals that are propagated over a conductive media, or
   transmitted as electromagnetic waves through a propagation medium. Thus, the digital data
   may be sent as unmodulated baseband data through a "wired" communication channel and/or
   sent within a predetermined frequency band, different than baseband, by modulating a carrier
   wave. The computer system 1201 can transmit and receive data, including program code,
20 through the network(s) 1215 and 1216, the network link 1214, and the communication
   interface 1213. Moreover, the network link 1214 may provide a connection through a LAN
    1215 to a mobile device 1217 such as a personal digital assistant (PDA) laptop computer, or
   cellular telephone.
            The exemplary energy spectrum previously noted in FIG I may also be used in this
25 computcr-implemented system.
            The reagents and chemicals useful for methods and systems of the present invention
   may be packaged in kits to facilitate application of the present invention. In one exemplary
   embodiment, a kit including a psoralen, and fractionating containers for easy fractionation
   and isolation of autovaccines is contemplated. A further embodiment of kit would comprise
3C at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent capable of causing a predetermined cellular
   change, at least one energy modulation agent capable of activating the at least one activatable
   agent when energized, and containers suitable for storing the agents in stable form, and
   preferably further comprising instructions for administering the at least one activatable

      WO 2008/124681                                                           PCTIUS2008/059561
                                                  43
   pharmaceutical agent and at least one energy modulation agent to a subject, and for applying
   an initiation energy from an initiation energy source to activate the activatable pharmaceutical
   agent. The instructions could be in any desired form, including but not limited to, printed on
   a kit insert, printed on one or more containers, as well as electronically stored instructions
 5 provided on an electronic storage medium, such as a computer readable storage medium.
   Also optionally included is a software package on a computer readable storage medium that
   permits the user to integrate the information and calculate a control dose, to calculate and
   control intensity of the irradiation source.
            Having generally described this invention, a further understanding can be obtained by
I0 reference to certain specific examples which are provided herein for purposes of illustration
   only and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified.
   EXAMPLES
            Example     1
i5          In a first example, Vitamin B 12 is used as a stimulating energy source for a
   photoactive agent overlapping its emission wavelength using dipole-dipole resonance
   energy transfer,
                                                       Excitation Max             Eiissicn Max.
        Endegenous Fluorophore                               (nm)                      (nm)
        Vitamin B2                                            275                      305
            Vitamin B 12 has an excitation maximum at about 275 nm and an emission maximum
20 at 305 nm, as shown above and in Table 2. Table 4 shows UV and light emission from
   gamma ray sources. In this example, m'Sn and/or m..Cs are chelated with the Vitamin B 12.
    [he Vitamin B12 preferentially is absorbed by tumor cells. Thus, it is in close proximity and
   capable of activating 8-MOP, which is administered in advance as the photoactivation
   molecules. The emission band of Vitamin B12 overlaps the excitation band of 8-MOP;
75 therefore, photo and iesonance energy transfer occurs, when Vitamin B12 is in close
   proximity to 8-MOP. 8-MOP is activated and binds to DNA of the tumor cells inducing an
   auto vaccine effect in vivo.
   Example 2
30          In this example, gold nanoparticles are chelated with the Vitamin B12 complex. A

     WO 2008/124681                                                           PCT/US2008/059561
                                                  44
   suitable light source is used to stimulate the gold nanoparticles or Vitamin B12 may be
   chelated with one of the UV emitters listed in Table 4 in addition to the gold nanoparticles.
   The tumor cells preferentially absorb the Vitamin B12 complexes, such that the activated gold
   nanoparticles are within 50 nanometers of 8-MOP and/or other photoactivatable molecules
 5 previously administered. Therefore, resonance energy transfer activates the photoactivatable
   molecules, such as 8-MOP, and the activated 8-MOP binds to DNA in tumor cells indusing
   apoptosis and autovaccine effects.
           In a further example, the nanoparticles of gold are clusters of 5 gold
   atoms encapsulated by poly-amidoamine dendrimers. Thus, the gold nanoparticles emit UV in
10 the correct band for activating 8-MOP and other UV-activatable agents capable of exhibiting
   photophoresis and/or photodynamic effects.
           Cells undergoing rapid proliferation have been shown to have increased uptake of
   thymidine and methionine. (See, for example, M. E. van Eijkeren et al., Acta Oncologica, 31,
   539 (1992); K. Kobota et al., J. Nucl. Med., 32, 2118 (1991) and K. Iligashi et al,, J. Nucl.
15 Med., 34,773 (1993)). Since methylcobalamin is directly involved with methionine synthesis
   and indirectly involved in the synthesis of thymidylate and DNA, it is not surprising that
   methylcobalamin as well as Cobalt-57-cyanocobalamin have also been shown to have
   increased uptake in rapidly dividing tissue (for example, see, B. A. Cooper et al., Nature, 191,
   393 (1961); H. Flodh, Acta Radiol. Suppl., 284, 55 (1968); L. Bloomquist et al., Experientia,
20 25, 294 (1969)). Additionally, up regulation in the number of transcobalamin II receptors has
   been demonstrated in several malignant cell lines during their accelerated thymidine
   incorporation and DNA synthesis (see, J. Lindemans et al., Exp. Cell. Res., 184, 449 (1989);
   T. Amagasaki et al., Blood, 26, 138 (1990) and J. A. Begly et al., J. Cell Physiol. 156, 43
   (1993). Vitamin B12 is water soluble, has no known toxicity, and in excess is excreted by
25 gloinerular filtration. In addition, the uptake of vitamin B12 could potentially be manipulated
   by the administration of nitrous oxide and other pharmacological agents (D. Swanson et al.,
   Pharmaceuticals in Medical Imaging, MacMillan Pub. Co., NY (1 990) at pages 621 628).
           A preferred embodiment of the present invention uses a psoralen compound as the
   activatable pharmaceutical agent (must preferably 8-MOP or AMT), nanoparticles of gold
30 having clusters of 5 gold atoms encapsulated by poly-amidoamine dendrimers as the energy
   modulation agent, x-rays as the initiation energy source, UV-A as the resultant erergy emitted
   by the energy modulation agent, which upon activation of the psoralen compound results in
   apoptosis in the target cells.

                                                     45
   methylcobalamin as well as Cobalt-57-cyanocobalamin have also been shown to have
   increased uptake in rapidly dividing tissue (for example, see, B. A. Cooper et al., Nature, 191,
   393 (1961); H. Flodh, Acta Radiol. Suppl., 284, 55 (1968); L. Bloomquist et al., Experientia,
   25, 294 (1969)). Additionally, up regulation in the number of transcobalamin Il receptors has
 5 been demonstrated in several malignant cell lines during their accelerated thymidine
   incorporation and DNA synthesis (see, J. Lindemans et al., Exp. Cell. Res., 184, 449 (1989);
   T. Amagasaki et al., Blood, 26, 138 (1990) and J. A. Begly et al., J. Cell Physiol. 156, 43
   (1993). Vitamin B12 is water soluble, has no known toxicity, and in excess is excreted by
   gloinerular filtration. In addition, the uptake of vitamin B12 could potentially be manipulated
10 by the administration of nitrous oxide and other pharmacological agents (D. Swanson et al.,
   Pharmaceuticals in Medical Imaging, MacMillan Pub. Co., NY (1 990) at pages 621 628).
            A preferred embodiment of the present invention uses a psoralen compound as the
   activatable pharmaceutical agent (most preferably 8-MOP or AMT), nanoparticles of gold
   having clusters of 5 gold atoms encapsulated by poly-amidoamine dendrimers as the energy
15 modulation agent, x-rays as the initiation energy source, UV-A as the resultant energy emitted
   by the energy modulation agent, which upon activation of the psoralen compound results in
   apoptosis in the target cells.
            Obviously, additional modifications and variations of the present invention are possible
20 in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the
   appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described
   herein.
            The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
25 common general knowledge in Australia.
            In the specification the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a broad meaning
   similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer
   or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or
   group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on the term "comprising"
30 such as "comprise" and "comprises."

                                                   46
Claims
1. A method for treating a cell proliferation disorder in a subject, comprising:
             (1) modifying one or more cells to incorporate a photon emitting modification or
                 substance;
             (2) inserting the modified cells at a targeted site of the subject; and
             (3) administering at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent capable of being
                 activated by the photons emitted from the modified cells to cause a
                 predetermined cellular change.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more cells are subject's own cells that have
    been removed prior to said modifying.
3.  The method of claim 1, wherein the photon emitting modification or substance is a member
    selected from the group consisting of light emitting genes; phosphorescent compounds,
    chemiluminescent compounds, bioluminescent compounds and light emitting enzymes.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the targeted site is a tumor.
5. The method according to Claim 1, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical
    agent, upon activation, causes an auto-vaccine effect in the subject that reacts with a
    target cell.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined cellular change is apoptosis in a target
    cell.
7. A method for generating an autovaccine for a subject, comprising:
         (1) providing a population of target cells;
         (2) treating the target cells ex vivo in an environment separate and isolated from the
                 subject with a psoralen or a derivative thereof;
         (3) activating the psoralen or the derivative thereof with an UV-A source to induce a
                 predetermined cellular change in the target cells;

                                                    47
         (4) returning the thus changed cells back to the subject to induce in the subject an
                  autovaccine effect against the target cell, wherein the changed cells act as an
                  autovaccine.
8. The method of Claim 7, wherein the psoralen is 8-MOP.
9. The method of Claim 7, further comprising:
         fractionating the apoptic cells and testing the fractions for auto-vaccine effect of each
                  isolated component to determine the component(s) associated with auto
                  vaccine before returning components to the subject.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the predetermined cellular change is apoptosis in a target
    cell affected by the cell proliferation disorder.
11. A system for producing an auto-vaccine in a subject, comprising:
         at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent capable of inducing a predetermined
                  cellular change in a target cell in said subject;
         means for placing said at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent in said subject;
                  and
         an initiation energy source to provide initiation energy capable of activating the at
                  least one activatable pharmaceutical agent in said target cell, wherein
                  activation is either direct or indirect.
12. The system of Claim 11, wherein the predetermined cellular change is apoptosis in a
    target cell.
13. The system of Claim 11, wherein the initiation energy is capable of directly activating the
    at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent.
14. The system of Claim 11, further comprising at least one energy modulation agent for
    emitting an energy to the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent, whereby the
    initiation energy source is absorbed by the at least one energy modulation agent and
    reemitted as an activation energy for the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent

                                                48
    such that the initiation energy source indirectly activates the at least one activatable
    pharmaceutical agent via the at least one energy modulation agent.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein said at least one energy modulation agent is a single
    energy modulation agent, and is coupled to said at least one activatable pharmaceutical
    agent.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the initiation energy is x-rays, gamma rays or an
    electron beam.
17. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a
    photoactivatable agent.
18. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    selected from psoralens, pyrene cholesteryloleate, acridine, porphyrin, fluorescein,
    rhodamine, 16-diazorcortisone, ethidium, transition metal complexes of bleomycin,
    transition metal complexes of deglycobleomycin organoplatinum complexes, alloxazines,
    vitamin Ks, vitamin L, vitamin metabolites, vitamin precursors, naphthoquinones,
    naphthalenes, naphthols and derivatives thereof having planar molecular conformations,
    porphorinporphyrins, dyes and phenothiazine derivatives, coumarins, quinolones,
    quinones, and anthroquinones.
19. The system of Claim 18, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a
    psoralen, a coumarin, or a derivative thereof.
20. The system of Claim 18, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is 8
    MOP or AMT.
21. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is one
    selected from 7,8-dimethyl- 10-ribityl, isoalloxazine, 7,8,1 0-trimethylisoalloxazine, 7,8
    dimethylalloxazine, isoalloxazine-adenine dinucleotide, alloxazine mononucleotide,
    aluminum (III) phthalocyanine tetrasulonate, hematophorphyrin, and phthadocyanine.

                                                49
22. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    coupled to a carrier that is capable of binding to a receptor site.
23. The system of Claim 22, wherein the carrier is one selected from insulin, interleukin,
    thymopoietin or transferrin.
24. The system of Claim 22, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    coupled to the carrier by a covalent bond.
25. The system of Claim 22, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    coupled to the carrier by a non-covalent bond.
26. The system of Claim 22, wherein the receptor site is one selected from nucleic acids of
    nucleated cells, antigenic sites on nucleated cells, or epitopes.
27. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent has
    affinity for a target cell.
28. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    capable of being preferentially absorbed by a target cell.
29. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activated pharmaceutical agent causes
    an auto-vaccine effect in the subject that reacts with a target cell.
30. The system of Claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a
    DNA intercalator or a halogenated derivative thereof.
31. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    activated by one or more sequential single photon absorption events.
32. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent
    comprises an active agent contained within a photocage, wherein upon exposure to said
    initiation energy source, the photocage disassociates from the active agent, rendering the
    active agent available.

                                                  50
33. A kit for performing a cell proliferation disorder treatment, comprising:
         at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent capable of causing a predetermined
                  cellular change;
         at least one energy modulation agent capable of activating the at least one activatable
                  pharmaceutical agent when energized; and
         containers suitable for storing the agents in stable form.
34. The kit of claim 33, further comprising instructions for administering the at least one
    activatable pharmaceutical agent and at least one energy modulation agent to a subject and
    for activating the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent by application of an
    initiation energy.
35. The kit of claim 33, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a member
    selected from the group consisting of a psoralen, a coumarin, or a derivative thereof.
36. The kit of claim 35, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a psoralen
    selected from psoralen or 8-MOP.
37. The kit of Claim 33, wherein the at least one energy modulation agent is one or more
    members selected from a biocompatible fluorescing metal nanoparticle, fluorescing dye
    molecule, gold nanoparticle, a water soluble quantum dot encapsulated by
    polyamidoamine dendrimers, a luciferase, a biocompatible phosphorescent molecule, a
    combined electromagnetic energy harvester molecule, and a lanthanide chelate capable of
    intense luminescence.
38. The kit of claim 33, wherein said at least one energy modulation agent is a single energy
    modulation agent, and is coupled to said at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent.
39. The kit of Claim 33, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is coupled
    to a carrier that is capable of binding to a receptor site.
40. The kit of Claim 39, wherein the carrier is one selected from polypeptide, insulin,
    interleukin, thymopoietin or transferrin.

                                                 51
41. The kit of Claim 39, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is coupled
    to the carrier by a covalent bond.
42. The kit of Claim 39, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is coupled
    to the carrier by a non-covalent bond.
43. The kit of Claim 39, wherein the receptor site is one selected from nucleic acids of
    nucleated cells, antigenic sites on nucleated cells, or epitopes.
44. The kit of Claim 33, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent has affinity
    for a target cell.
45. The kit of Claim 33, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is capable
    of being preferentially absorbed by a target cell.
46. The kit of Claim 33, wherein the at least one activated pharmaceutical agent causes an
    auto-vaccine effect in the subject that reacts with a target cell.
47. The kit of Claim 33, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a DNA
    intercalator or a halogenated derivative thereof.
48. The kit of claim 33, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is activated
    by one or more sequential single photon absorption events.
49. The kit of claim 33, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent comprises
    an active agent contained within a photocage, wherein upon exposure to said initiation
    energy source, the photocage disassociates from the active agent, rendering the active
    agent available.
50. A method for causing apoptosis in a subject in vivo, comprising:
         (1) administering to the subject at least one pharmaceutical agent that is capable of
                 inducing apoptosis; and
         (2) causing the at least one pharmaceutical agent to induce apoptosis in vivo.

                                                52
51. The method of claim 50, wherein the at least one pharmaceutical agent is at least one
    activatable pharmaceutical agent, and said causing step (2) comprises activating the at least
    one activatable pharmaceutical agent.
52. The method of Claim 51, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a
    photoactivatable agent.
53. The method of Claim 50, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    selected from psoralens, pyrene cholesteryloleate,         acridine, porphyrin, fluorescein,
    rhodamine, 16-diazorcortisone, ethidium, transition metal complexes of bleomycin,
    transition metal complexes of deglycobleomycin organoplatinum complexes, alloxazines,
    vitamin Ks, vitamin L, vitamin metabolites, vitamin precursors, naphthoquinones,
    naphthalenes, naphthols and derivatives thereof having planar molecular conformations,
    porphorinporphyrins,     dyes   and phenothiazine      derivatives,   coumarins, quinolones,
    quinones, and anthroquinones.
54. The method of Claim 53, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is a
    psoralen, a coumarin, or a derivative thereof.
55. The method of Claim 51, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is 8
    MOP or AMT.
56. The method of Claim 51, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is one
    selected from 7,8-dimethyl-10-ribityl, isoalloxazine, 7,8,10-trimethylisoalloxazine, 7,8
    dimethylalloxazine,    isoalloxazine-adenine    dinucleotide,    alloxazine  mononucleotide,
    aluminum (III) phthalocyanine tetrasulonate, hematophorphyrin, and phthadocyanine.
57. The method of Claim 51, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    coupled to a carrier that is capable of binding to a receptor site.
58. The method of Claim 57, wherein the carrier is one selected from insulin, interleukin,
    thymopoietin or transferrin.

                                                 53
59. The method of Claim 57, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    coupled to the carrier by a covalent bond.
60. The method of Claim 57, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    coupled to the carrier by non-covalent bond.
61. The method of Claim 57, wherein the receptor site is one selected from nucleic acids of
    nucleated cells, antigenic sites on nucleated cells, or epitopes.
62. The method of Claim 50, wherein the at least one pharmaceutical agent has affinity for a
    target cell.
63. The method of Claim 50, wherein the at least one pharmaceutical agent is capable of being
    preferentially absorbed by a target cell.
64. The method of Claim 50, wherein the at least one pharmaceutical agent further causes an
    auto-vaccine effect in the subject that reacts with a target cell.
65. The method of Claim 50, wherein the at least one pharmaceutical agent is a DNA
    intercalator or a halogenated derivative thereof.
66. The method of claim 51, wherein said activating comprises applying an initiation energy
    to the subject to activate the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent in vivo.
67. The method of claim 66, further comprising, prior to said applying of the initiation energy,
    administering to the subject at least one energy modulation agent that converts the initiation
    energy to an energy that activates the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent.
68. The method of claim 67, wherein said at least one energy modulation agent is a single
    energy modulation agent, and is coupled to said at least one activatable pharmaceutical
    agent.
69. The method of claim 66, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent is
    activated by one or more sequential single photon absorption events.

                                              54
70. The method of claim 51, wherein the at least one activatable pharmaceutical agent
    comprises an active agent contained within a photocage, wherein upon exposure to said
    initiation energy source, the photocage disassociates from the active agent, rendering the
    active agent available.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
