                                           ABSTRACT
         A system, a device and a method for allocating A/N resources are disclosed. In one
embodiment the method comprises indicating an acknowledgement or negative
acknowledgement (A/N) channel of a user equipment in a first cell, the A/N channel according
to a first value and a second value, wherein the first value is determined by a physical layer
parameter, wherein the second value is indicated by a high layer signaling, and wherein the A/N
channel corresponds to a downlink transmission of a second cell.

                 1/6
      Har NET
              EL   A
              FIGI
PDCCH                PDSCH
               FIG. 2A

                   Method and Apparatus for Uplink Control Signaling
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   The present invention relates generally to wireless communications, and more particularly to a
   system and method for communicating in a wireless communications system.
 5  BACKGROUND
   Wireless communications systems have made great advances in recent history, now offering near
   wireline communications system data rates, excellent reliability, low deployment costs, high
   degree of mobility, and so forth. With such a long list of advantages, wireless communications
   systems and attendant users are expected grow at a faster rate than ever before.
 0 CoMP (Cooperated Multi-Point Transmission) scheme is considered for Long Term Evolution
   Advanced (LTE-A) as a tool to improve the coverage of high data rates, the cell-edge throughput
   and/or to increase system throughput in both high load and low load scenarios. Downlink
   coordinated multi-point transmission implies coordination among multiple transmission points.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15 In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, a method comprises indicating an
   acknowledgement or negative acknowledgement (A/N) channel of a user equipment in a first
   cell, the A/N channel according to a first value and a second value, wherein the first value is
   determined by a physical layer parameter, wherein the second value is indicated by a high layer
   signaling, and wherein the A/N channel corresponds to a downlink transmission of a second cell.
20

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   For a more complete understanding of the present invention, and the advantages thereof,
   reference is now made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying
 5 drawing, in which:
   Figure 1 shows a heterogeneous network (Het-Net);
   Figure 2a shows one subframe comprising PDCCH and PDSCH in LTE and LTE-A;
   Figure 2b shows a R-PDCCH and PDSCH in LTE and LTE-A;
   Figure 2c shows a resource block (RB) according to specification 36.211;
 0 Figure 3a shows a heterogeneous network (Het-Net);
   Figure 3b shows corresponding DL/UL resources;
   Figure 4a shows an resource pool allocation;
   Figure 4b shows one embodiment of a specific allocation of an A/N channel within an A/N
   resource pool;
15 Figure 5 shows one embodiment of a specific allocation of an A/N channel within uplink
   resource block; and
   Figure 6 shows one embodiment of a resource allocation.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
20 The making and using of the presently preferred embodiments are discussed in detail below. It
   should be appreciated, however, that the present invention provides many applicable inventive
                                                  -2-

   concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments
   discussed are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention, and do not limit
   the scope of the invention.
   The present invention will be described with respect to embodiments in a specific context,
 5 namely a method for feeding back acknowledge, negative acknowledge (A/N) information in a
   CoMP. The invention may also be applied, however, for A/N information feedback methods for
   any other communication network.
   CoMP is considered for LTE-Advanced (LTE-A) as a tool to improve the coverage of high data
   rates, the cell-edge throughput and/or to increase system throughput in both high load and low
 0 load scenarios. Downlink coordinated multi-point transmission implies coordination among
   multiple transmission points.
   Joint processing (JP) is one of CoMP schemes which includes joint transmission and dynamic
   point selection. Joint transmission means simultaneously transmitting data to a single UE from
   multiple transmission points. Dynamic point selection means transmitting physical downlink
 5 shared channel (PDSCH) data from one point at a time.
   A heterogeneous network (Het-Net) may be described as a communications system made up of
   full power cells, such as macro cells, typically deployed as a planned network by a service
   provider, and low power nodes (LPN), such as pico cells, femto cells, and so forth, that may be
   deployed by a service provider and/or a subscriber to help improve performance in high
20 subscriber density areas or low coverage areas.
   The standards body for LTE-A has performed extensive evaluations of CoMP techniques as part
   of the CoMP study item. Four agreed deployment scenarios are as follows:
        -   Scenario 1: Homogeneous network with intra-site CoMP
        -   Scenario 2: Homogeneous network with high Tx power RRHs (Remote Radio Heads)
                                                     -3-

        -  Scenario 3: Heterogeneous network with low power RRHs within the macro cell
            coverage where transmission/reception points created by the RRHs have different cell
            IDs as the macro cell
        -  Scenario 4: Heterogeneous network with low power RRHs within the macro cell
 5          coverage where the transmission/reception points created by the RRHs have the same
            cell IDs as the macro cell
   In a FDD (frequency duplex division) and TDD (time duplex division) system, a cell has its
   downlink resources carrying the information from the Network to UEs and uplink resources
   carrying the information from UEs to the Network.
 o Downlink (DL) and uplink (UL) control data transmissions may be organized in radio frames
   comprising of a number of consecutive subframes. Each subframe may comprise a number of
   consecutive OFDM symbols. In a regular DL subframe, the OFDM symbols are divided into a
   control region and a data region. The control region may comprise physical downlink control
   channels (PDCCH) and the data region may comprise physical downlink shared channels
 5 (PDSCH). The data region follows the control region. This is shown in Figure 2a.
   The relationship between R-PDCCH (relay PDCCH)/E-PDCCH (enhanced PDCCH) and
   PDSCH/PUSCH is similar to that between PDCCH and PDSCH/PUSCH except that the
   resource occupation style is different. In Figure 2b, R-PDCCH (vertical line boxes) and PDSCH
   (clear boxes) are frequency-division multiplexed in a time slot. In the frequency domain, a set of
20 RBs is semi-statically configured for potential R-PDCCH transmission, from which a subset can
   be allocated for each R-PDCCH, shown in Figure 2b. In LTE-A Release-10, R-PDCCH are used
   by the donor eNB (DeNB) to schedule the transmissions on the backhaul link between the DeNB
   and a Relay node.
                                                    -4-

   The PDCCH region comprises control channel elements (CCEs) which can be allocated to a
   PDCCH. The configuration of how many PDDCHs are mapped to CCEs is flexible. PDCCH
   candidates of a given UE depending on their aggregation level can be mapped to a search space
   (a group of consecutive CCEs) of the UE.
 5 A UE may first detect the PDCCH(s) before acquiring the corresponding PDSCH or sending the
   physical uplink shared channels (PUSCH). Multiple PDCCHs are multiplexed within the control
   region. A UE may blindly search for a PDCCH in its search spaces within the control region of a
   subframe. If a UE is unable to detect a proper PDCCH then there is no PDCCH for the UE in this
   subframe.
 0 Referring now to Figure 2c, according to standard 36.211, the transmitted signal in each slot is
   described by a resource grid of NDBNRB subcarriers and N"          OFDM symbols, where NDB
   denotes the number of downlink RBs, N"B denotes the number of resource elements in a
   resource block, and N"       is the number of OFDM symbols in a slot. Each element in the
   resource grid for antenna port p is called a resource element and is uniquely identified by the
   index pair (k,l) in a slot where k =0,...,Np N RB -1 and = 0,...,NDL -1 are the indices in the
   frequency and time domains, respectively.
   According to standard 36.211, section 6.2.4, resource-element groups are used for defining the
   mapping of control channels to resource elements. A resource-element group is represented by
   the index pair (k',l') of the resource element with the lowest index k in the group with all
20 resource elements in the group having the same value of 1. The set of resource elements (k,l) in
   a resource-element group depends on the number of cell-specific reference signals configured. A
   resource-element group consists of 4 resource elements.
   According to standard 36.213, section 9.1.1., paragraph 29-34, the physical downlink control
   channel carries scheduling assignments and other control information. A physical control
                                                      -5-

   channel is transmitted on an aggregation of one or several consecutive control channel elements
   (CCEs), where a control channel element corresponds to 9 resource element groups. The number
   of resource-element groups not assigned to PCFICH or PHICH is NREG. The CCEs available in
   the system are numbered from 0 and NCCE -1, where NCCE = LNREG / 9]. The PDCCH supports
 5 multiple formats as listed in Table 1. A PDCCH consisting of n consecutive CCEs may only
   start on a CCE fulfilling i modn = 0, where i is the CCE number. Multiple PDCCHs can be
   transmitted in a subframe.
   Table 1:
                        PDCCH          Number of   Number of resource-   Number of
                        format         CCEs        element groups        PDCCH bits
                        0              1           9                     72
                        1              2           18                    144
                        2              4           36                    288
                        3              8           72                    576
 0 The control region consists of a set of CCEs, numbered from 0 to NCCEk - , where NCCEk is the
   total number of CCEs in the control region of subframe k. The UE may monitor a set of PDCCH
   candidates for control information in every non-DRX (discontinuous received) subframe, where
   monitoring implies attempting to decode each of the PDCCHs in the set according to all the
   monitored downlink control information (DCI) formats. The set of PDCCH candidates to
15 monitor are defined in terms of search spaces, where a search space s(L) at aggregation level
    L e (1,2,4,8} is defined by a set of PDCCH candidates. The CCEs corresponding to PDCCH
   candidate m of the search space SJL) are given by L -{(Y + m)mod NCCEk / Lj +i where Yk is
   defined below, i =0,-       -,L1and M= 0,- ..,M   -1. M(L) is the number of PDCCH candidates to
   monitor in the given search space.
20 The UE may monitor one common search space at each of the aggregation levels 4 and 8 and
   one UE-specific search space at each of the aggregation levels 1, 2, 4, 8. The common and UE
                                                        -6-

   specific search spaces may overlap. The aggregation levels defining the search spaces are listed
   in Table 2. The DCI formats that the UE may monitor depend on the configured transmission
   mode.
   Table 2:
                                    Search space S(L)                    Number of PDCCH
                  Type       Aggregation level L        Size [in CCEs]    candidates M(L)
                                      1                         6                 6
                   UE-                2                        12                 6
                 specific             4                        8                  2
                                      8                        16                 2
                                                               16                 4
                 Common
                 Como      1          8                        16                 2
 5
   For the common search spaces, Y is set to 0 for the two aggregation levels L = 4 and L =8. For
   the UE-specific search space S(L) at aggregation level L, the variable Y is defined by
    Yk=(A-Ykj)modD where Y_1 =ng 1 #0,         A=39827, D=65537 and k= Ln/2), n, is the slot
   number within a radio frame. The RNTI (Radio Network Temporary Identifier) value used for
 0  nRNTI can be various for a UE, it can have more than one RNTI simultaneously for different
   purposes, for example, for different traffic.
   Hybrid automatic repeat request (Hybrid ARQ or HARQ) is a combination of forward error
   correcting coding and error detection using the ARQ error-control method. In ARQ, redundant
   bits are added to data to be transmitted using an error-detecting code such as a cyclic redundancy
15 check (CRC) code. In Hybrid ARQ, forward error correction (FEC) bits (such as Reed-Solomon
   code, Convolutional code or Turbo code) are added to the existing Error Detection (ED) bits
   (e.g., CRC) to correct a subset of all errors while relying on ARQ to detect uncorrectable errors.
   According to standard 36.213, section 10.1, an acknowledgement (ACK) or negative
   acknowledgement (NACK) is sent back to the transmitter to indicate whether the transmission is
20 decoded successfully or not.
                                                      -7-

   Uplink control information (UCI) in subframe n shall be transmitted
      -  on physical uplink control channels (PUCCH) using format 1/la/lb or 2/2a/2b if the UE is
         not transmitting on PUSCH in subframe n
      -  on PUSCH if the UE is transmitting on PUSCH in subframe n unless the PUSCH
 5       transmission corresponds to a Random Access Response Grant or a retransmission of the
         same transport block as part of the contention based random access procedure, in which
         case UCI is not transmitted
   The following combinations of uplink control information on PUCCH are supported:
      -  HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format la or lb
 0    -  HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format lb with channel selection
      -  Scheduling request (SR) using PUCCH format 1
      -  HARQ-ACK and SR using PUCCH format la or lb
      -  CQI using PUCCH format 2
      -  CQI and HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format
15      - 2a or 2b for normal cyclic prefix
        - 2 for extended cyclic prefix
   The scrambling initialization of PUCCH format 2, 2a and 2b is by the C-RNTI. The parameter
   Simultaneous-AN-and-CQI provided by higher layers determine if a UE can transmit a
   combination of CQI and HARQ-ACK on PUCCH in the same subframe. For FDD, the UE shall
20 use PUCCH resource n)ccH for transmission of HARQ-ACK in subframe n, where
      -  for a PDSCH transmission indicated by the detection of a corresponding PDCCH in
         subframe n-4, or for a PDCCH indicating downlink semi-persistent scheduling (SPS)
                                                 -8-

           release (defined in section 9.2 of 36.213) in subframe n-4 , the UE shall use
                             1
            n(1)          rJ
             PUCCH = nCCE   NCCH, where nCCE is the number of the first CCE used for transmission of
           the corresponding DCI assignment and N('CCH is configured by higher layers.
      -    for a PDSCH transmission where there is not a corresponding PDCCH detected in
 5         subframe n -4, the value of nPCCH is determined according to higher layer configuration.
   A UE typically receives control signaling and data in DL resources of a cell and sends back
   control signaling and data in the UL resources of the same cell. For example, CoMP scenario 3 is
   shown in Figure 1: A large (full power) cell or macro cell A covers a large area, and small cells
   such as pico or femto cells (cells B-D) cover smaller areas. User Equipment UEl, UE2 may
 0 move freely within the HetNet. The UEs may communicate with the different cells. For example,
   UEl is located within cell A and communicates bi-directionally with cell A. In contrast, UE2 is
   located within the area of cell B and communicates bi-directionally with cell B.
   When a UE receives encoded data from a cell the UE needs to feed back an acknowledgment
   (ACK) or a negative acknowledgement (NACK) to inform the transmitter that the data were
 5 successfully received or not. The UE may transmit the ACK or NACK (A/N) on PUCCH
   channels in the UL resources. The A/N channels may have a predefined position in the PUCCH
   of the UL resource as introduced in the previous part.
   A problem may arise for a UE if the UE moves along or in an area close to an edge of cell B as
   shown in Figure 3A. The DL signals from cell B to the UE may experience a high level of
20 interference from cell A, especially when range extension is adopted. On the other hand, the UL
   channel quality to cell B may be better than UL channel quality to cell A because the UE is
   closer to cell B than to cell A. The reception power at cell B may be better than the reception
   power at cell A.
                                                    -9-

   In one embodiment a UE receives DL 150 signals from cell A and sends UL 160 signals to cell
   B. This may be advantageous because it improves the reception performance of the system (Het
   Net). For a UE located at the edge of cell B the UE may receive the signals from cell A and may
   send signals, for example A/N signals, to cell B. With these additional A/N signals to be
 5 communicated to cell B, more A/N channel resources in the UL of the cell B are needed. In one
   embodiment unused A/N channel resources in the UL resources of cell B are filled with A/N
   information related to DL transmission of cell A.
   Figure 3B shows that DL transmissions of cell A not only correspond to UL transmissions of cell
   A and DL transmissions of cell B not only correspond to UL transmissions of cell B but also that
 0 DL transmissions of cell A may correspond to UL transmissions of cell B.
   Figure 3B shows that each cell comprises at least one base-station/access point or that one base
   station serves at least one cell. A base-station may comprise circuitry to serve a cell, e.g.,
   circuitry configured to receive uplink transmission and configured to transmit downlink
   transmissions. Alternatively, the base-station may comprise circuitry to serve several cells. The
 5 circuitry may comprise baseband chips, RF front end chips, antenna circuitry and memory chips.
   The baseband chips may be configured to process data such as transforming, encoding, decoding
   mapping, etc.
   In one embodiment a network, such as a Het-Net, comprises a first cell served at least by one
   base station and a second cell served by at least one base station. The base stations which serve
20 the first cell and which serve the second cell may be the same or may be different. A UE moving
   within the system may receive a first value by a physical layer signaling and a second value by a
   high layer signaling.
   The UE or mobile station may be a device used directly by an end-user. It can be a hand-held
   telephone, a laptop computer equipped with a mobile broadband adapter, or any other device. A
25 UE may comprise circuitry configured to receive downlink transmissions and configured to
                                                     -10-

   transmit uplink transmissions. The UE may comprise baseband chips, RF front end chips,
   antenna circuitry and memory chips. The baseband chips may be configured to process data such
   as transforming, encoding, decoding mapping, etc.
   The UE may calculate an A/N channel position in the first cell, wherein the A/N channel position
 5 is based on the first value and the second value. The calculated A/N channel position may
   correspond to a downlink transmission of a first cell or to a downlink transmission of a second
   cell. The calculated A/N channel position may correspond to a downlink control signaling
   transmission such as PDCCH transmission and/or E-PDCCH transmission and/or a downlink
   data transmission.
 0 Figure 4A shows an original A/N channel resource pool and a new A/N channel resource pool.
   The original A/N channel resource pool may correspond to downlink transmissions to UEs from
   cell B and the new A/N channel resource pool may correspond to downlink transmission to UEs
   from cell A or from cell B. In other words, the new A/N channel resource pool comprises A/N
   channel feedbacks originally occurring in a cell or cells other than the cell B, for example, in cell
 5 A. The new A/N resource pool may be located adjacent to the original A/N resource pool.
   According to one protocol, one UL resource block (RB) provides a certain number of A/N
   channels, for example 18. An RB will be used for PUCCH as long as there is one PUCCH
   channel reserved on this RB. For example, if there are 19 PUCCH channels, then there are two
   RBs needed because ceiling (19 / 18)    = 2. The second RB holds only 1 PUCCH channel. The
20 remaining 17 PUCCH channels of the second RB are reserved but unoccupied.
   The remainder of the channels in the second RB is reserved for PUCCH channels but remains
   unoccupied due to the exceeding number of DL CCEs. Table 3 below shows the number of A/N
   channels needed in different cases which is equal to the number of DL CCEs. For example,
   Table 3 shows that the channels needed is 1 for NRB=1 5 , Ng= 2 , Port  = l and CFI =1, or similarly
25 that the channels needed is 2 for NRB= 2 5 , Ng= 2 , Port = 1 and CFI =1. Most of the time, the total
                                                     -11-

   number of reserved but unoccupied PUCCH channels is not zero. Frequently there are more than
   10 channels reserved but not utilized.
   Table 3:
                         1 Port                      2 Ports                   4 Ports
   NRB    Ng   PHICH    CFI=1      CFI=2   CFI=3     CFI=l   CFI=2   CFI=3     CFI=l    CFI=2    CFI=3
   15      1/6 1        2         7        12        2       7       12        2        5        10
           1/2 1        2         7        12        2       7       12        2        5        10
           1   2        2         7        12        2       7       12        2        5        10
          2    4         1        6        11        1       6       11        1        4        9
   25      1/6 1        4          13      21        4       13     21         4         10      18
           1/2 2        4          12      21        4       12     21         4         10      18
           1   4        3          12      20        3       12     20         3        9        17
          2    7        2          11      19        2       11      19        2        8        16
   50      1/6 2         10       26       43        10      26     43         10       21       37
           1/2 4        9         26       42        9       26     42         9        20       37
           1   7        8         25       41        8       25     41         8         19      36
          2    13       6         23       39        6       23      39        6         17      34
   75      1/6 2         15       40       65        15      40      65        15       32       57
           1/2 5         14       39       64        14      39      64        14       31       56
           1   10        12       37       62        12      37      62        12       29       54
          2    19       9         34       59        9       34      59        9        26       51
   100     1/6 3        20        54       87        20      54      87        20       43       76
           1/2 7         19       52       86        19      52      86        19       41       75
           1   13        17       50       84        17      50      84        17       39       73
          2    25        13       46       80        13      46      80        13       35       69
 5 It is advantageous to utilize the already existing and unused A/N channels first before starting to
   assign a whole new RB previously assigned for data transmission. As a result, the UEs
   transmitting signals to cell B while receiving signals from another cell/ other cells should be
   informed of the size of the original A/N channel resource pool. The size of the original A/N
   channel resource pool is based on a parameter or a set of parameters. For example, the size of the
10 original A/N channel resource pool may depend on the number of CCEs of the subframes of cell
   B. The number of CCEs may change from subframe to subframe and so does the size of the
   original A/N channel resource pool. The number of CCEs in a subframe may be determined by a
   set of parameters, e.g., system bandwidth, the number of occupied OFDM symbols of the DL
   control region of cell B which is indicated by CFI (control format indicator) value in dynamic
15 physical CFI channel (PCFICH), the number of antenna ports, and physical HARQ indicator
                                                     -12-

   channel (PHICH) resources signaled in the physical broadcast channel (PBCH) (Ng). An
   example of these parameters is provided in Table 3 above.
   In one embodiment the new A/N resource pool may also be formed in a separate new RB or in a
   plurality of separate new RBs. The new A/N resource pool may be located adjacent or next to the
 5 last RB of the original A/N resource pool. The UE may also be informed of the size of the
   original A/N channel resource pool. A UE can calculate the number of RBs for the original A/N
   resource pool assuming whole RBs are reserved for PUCCHs, like calculating the number of
   remaining available PUSCH RBs.
   The UE in a CoMP is typically well informed of the configurations of cell A and cell B. The UE
 0 may be well informed of the number of CCEs of cell B to find/calculate the starting point of the
   new pool of A/N channels, either for using the remainder channels of an existing RB and/or for
   using separate RBs. A parameter for setting the starting point of the new A/N resource pool may
   be the dynamic CFI value. One way to provide the UE with the dynamic CFI value of another
   cell is to mask the dynamic CFI value to the cyclic redundancy check (CRC) bits in a DL
 5 transmission of cell A. The RNTI of the UE is already a mask for the CRC of its DL
   transmissions, if more information is masked on the CRC, the combined mask is another series
   of binary bits, which is another RNTI. This is equivalent to giving a UE more than one RNTI for
   communication, the UE de-masks the RNTIs to obtain the CFI value
   Alternatively, the CFI value may explicitly be provided to the UE by reusing a field or fields in
20 the current DCI or creating a new field to convey the dynamic CFI value which may increase the
   number of the blinding decoding attempts. A new transmission mode or modes may be needed to
   reduce the number of blind decoding attempts.
   Figure 4b shows the relative position of a specific A/N channel within the new pool of A/N
   channels. The relative position of the A/N channels within the new pool of A/N channels may be
25 indicated in a semi-static manner since it may change very slowly. The UE may indicate a
                                                   -13-

   specific A/N channel within the new pool of A/N channels via a higher layer signaling, for
   example, Radio Resource Control (RRC) layer signaling.
   In one embodiment the high layer, for example, RRC layer, indicates to the UE a relative
   location of an A/N channel within the new pool of A/N channels or a relative location to the
 5 original A/N channel resource pool semi-statically, then inform the UE about the size of the
   original A/N channel resource pool dynamically because the size of the original A/N channel
   resource pool changes dynamically.
   For example, indicate a UE a relative location-5, then inform the UE about the CFI value
   showing that the number of PDCCH symbols is 2. The UE may receive other information such
 0 as PHICH parameter, system bandwidth, etc. to help the UE to determine the exact size of the
   original A/N channel resource pool or the numbers of RBs reserved for the original A/N channel
   resource pool. In another example the UE just receives the system bandwidth, assume the
   smallest PHICH parameter which results in the largest number of CCEs. So the formula for a
   CoMP UE can be n (CCH = n + N('CCH where n(CCH is the PUCCH channel location; n is the
 5 starting point of the new pool of A/N channels, here it is a CoMP UE PUCCH area which is a
   function of system bandwidth, CFI, and Ng of the UE attached cell; NpQCC     is indicated by high
   layer signaling, for example RRC layer signaling.
   The UE may obtain the parameters and the signaling to find/calculate its UL A/N channels
   assigned in the cell B corresponding to its DL transmission from cell A.
20 This method can also be used for A/N feedback of R-PDCCH, or R-PDCCH like scheduled
   transmissions in cell A or in cell B, for example, E-PDCCH. If it is the E-PDCCH in cell B, then
   a UE knows the CFI value by PCFICH in cell B. The starting point of the new pool of A/N
   channels may be decided by factors besides the original A/N resource pool, for example, the A/N
   resources corresponding to R-PDCCH/E-PDCCH of cell B. However, the indication method of
                                                   -14-

   CFI value can also be extended to the new factors: a certain related value which a UE may use to
   find/calculate its A/N channels, and the value is indicated dynamically by physical layer
   signaling.
   In one embodiment the A/N channel location in the UL of cell B corresponding to DL
 5 transmissions of cell A is based on the CCE index in the DL of cell A. As can be seen from
   Figure 5, the A/N channel is located at the "same" physical location in the UL resource of cell B
   as it would have been located in the UL resource of cell A if it were transmitted in UL resource
   of cell B.
   Figure 6 shows a further embodiment of allocating new A/N channels of cell A to original A/N
 0 channels of cell B. Depending on their aggregation level, PDCCHs may occupy more than 1
   CCE. For example, the first PDCCH 601 and the second PDCCH 602 each occupy 1 CCE, the
   third PDCCH 603 occupies 2 CCEs, the fourth PDCCH 604 occupies 4 CCEs and the fifth
   PDCCH 605 occupies 8 CCEs, accordingly 1, 2, 4, and 8 A/N channels are reserved. The UE
   may only use the first A/N channels 606-610 reserved for it in the original A/N channel resource
 5 pool to feed back the A/N signal. The remaining A/N channels 607-611 are unoccupied.
   Moreover, UL grants are also allocated in the control region which do not need A/N channels but
   corresponding A/N channels will also be reserved since the UL grants also occupy a certain
   number of CCEs. Accordingly, the remaining unoccupied A/N channels 607-611 of the original
   resource pool may be available for A/N channel allocation corresponding to downlink
20 transmissions in cell A.
   In one embodiment a function of functions may be used to map the A/N channels from cell A to
   cell B. One such function is the hash function used in the PDCCH search space. The function(s)
   may be known by the UE and the cells because the function(s) may be indicated or defined in the
   specs. For example, cell A indicates the A/N channel index directly to the UE.
                                                   -15-

  By this method, A/N channels can be indicated to the new A/N resource pool when the A/N
  channels are corresponding to the DL transmission of other cell/cells or when the A/N channels
  are corresponding to the DL transmission of the same cell but without correspondence to the
  original A/N resource pool. Secondly, it only indicates the relative information by a high layer,
5 so the value range is limited, and it may need fewer bits which reduces the high layer overhead.
  Finally, if the new A/N resource pool is adjacent to the original A/N resource pool, UL single
  carrier property can be preserved. Moreover, in one embodiment the unoccupied A/N channels
  can be utilized first to reduce resource waste, which is advantageous if the system bandwidth is
  small.
0 While this invention has been described with reference to illustrative embodiments, this
  description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications and
  combinations of the illustrative embodiments, as well as other embodiments of the invention,
  will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description. It is therefore
  intended that the appended claims encompass any such modifications or embodiments.
                                                   -16-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.     A method comprising:
       indicating an acknowledgement or negative acknowledgement (A/N) channel of a user
equipment in a first cell, the A/N channel according to a first value and a second value,
       wherein the first value is determined by a physical layer parameter,
       wherein the second value is indicated by a high layer signaling, and
       wherein the A/N channel corresponds to a downlink transmission of a second cell.
2.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the downlink transmission comprises a
downlink control signaling transmission and/or a downlink data transmission.
3.     The method according to claim 2, wherein the downlink control signaling transmission
comprises a physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) transmission and/or an E-PDCCH
transmission.
4.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the parameter is a control field indicator.
5.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the parameter is indicated by downlink control
information.
6.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the parameter is masked to a cycle redundancy
check of a downlink transmission or downlink transmissions.
7.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the second value is indicated by a Radio
Resource Control layer signaling.
                                                -17-

8.       The method according to claim 1, wherein indicating the A/N channel of the user
equipment according to the first value and the second value comprises
         calculating an index using the first value; and
         combining the index and the second value to obtain an index of the A/N channel.
9.       A method for operating an user equipment, the method comprising:
         determining a first value by a physical layer parameter;
         receiving a second value by a high layer signaling; and
         calculating an acknowledgement or negative acknowledgement (A/N) channel index in a
first cell according to the first value and the second value,
         wherein the A/N channel index corresponds to a downlink transmission of a second cell.
10.      The method according to claim 9, wherein the parameter is a control field indicator.
11.      The method according to claim 10, wherein the downlink control signaling transmission
comprises a physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) transmission and/or an E-PDCCH
transmission.
12.      An user equipment (UE) comprising:
         circuitry configured to determine a first value by a physical layer parameter and a second
value by a high layer signaling; and
         circuitry configured to calculate an acknowledgement or negative acknowledgement
(A/N) channel position according to the first value and the second value in a first cell
         wherein the A/N channel corresponds to a downlink transmission of a second cell.
13.      The UE according to claim 12, wherein the parameter is indicated by downlink control
information.
                                                   -18-

14.    The UE according to claim 12, wherein the second value is indicated by a Radio
Resource Control layer signaling.
15.    The UE according to claim 12, wherein the UE gets an index according to the first value
and wherein the UE adds the index and the second value to determine an A/N channel index.
16.    The method according to claim 12, wherein the downlink control signaling transmission
comprises a physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) transmission and/or an E-PDCCH
transmission.
                                             -19-

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      3/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      4/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      6/6

