ABSTRACT
        The invention relates to a grip body (la.. lg), in particular of a body care article, such as
toothbrush, comprising a grip part (4a..4g), a neck part (3a..3g) and a head part (2a..2g), wherein
the grip body (la..ig) comprises a first and a second material component (7, 8) of a
thermoplastic plastic. The first and the second material component (7, 8) have a common
injection point (10) which is arranged outside a mould partition line (12) formed by the mould
partition.
(Figure 3)

                      1\8
                             la           1a
                          2a           2a
                              7'       7
                          3a.          3a
                                       8
                          8
  7     --- 7"
                         4a           4a
                                       8
                          8
10          10            10           10
    Fig. I     Fig. 2          Fig. 3      Fig. 4

                                                  1
  METHOD FOR PRODUCING A TOOTHBRUSH, AND TOOTHBRUSH
         The invention relates to the field of grip bodies, in particular for body care articles or
cosmetic articles, such as toothbrushes, tongue cleaners, wet-shaving sticks, oral hygiene articles,
mascara applicators, nail varnish applicators, lipstick applicators, etc. The invention in particular
relates to a grip body for a toothbrush, with a grip part, with a neck part and with a head part,
wherein the grip body comprises at least one first and a second material component of
thermoplastic plastic. The invention moreover relates to a method for manufacturing such a grip
body as well as to an injecting moulding tool for carrying out the method.
                                      STATE OF THE ART
        It is known to manufacture grip bodies for body care and cosmetic products, in particular
for toothbrushes, of plastic by way of an injection moulding method, wherein the grip body is
injection moulded from several different thermoplastic plastics. For this, a first plastic
component is injected into a first tool cavity of an injection moulding tool, wherein the tool
cavity is completely filled. The tool cavity here does not represent a negative mould of the
finished grip body, but the negative mould of the part-body of the first material component. The
part-body of the first material component is subsequently reapplied into a further tool cavity,
which is larger than the part-body. The empty space between the part-body and the cavity wall is
then peripherally injected with a second material component, wherein this connects to the first
material component, for example with a material fit or positive fit. A grip body of two different
thermoplastic material components is moulded in this manner. Further material components can
yet be attached by way of repetition of the previously mentioned steps. This method however has
a few disadvantages. Thus the tooling costs are quite high due to the use of several tool cavities
for the manufacture of an injection moulded part. Moreover, the manufacturing speed and thus
the productivity are comparatively low due to the reapplication step.
        Moreover, it should be noted that an additional injection point (gating point) arises with
each material component which is injected. Injection points however compromise the appearance
of a grip body, so that the number of such injection points or of injection points on the surface is
to be kept as low as possible.
        Moreover, the fashioning or design possibilities of the grip body manufactured from
different material components remain limited despite the mentioned technical possibilities. A so
called interflowing of different plastic components is not possible, or can only be implemented
by way of the application of complicated and expensive injection moulding moulds.

                                                     2
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         It is therefore the object of the invention, to provide a grip body of the initially mentioned
type, which comprises two or more material components of plastic, which with regard to their
functional purpose are arranged in the grip body in a targeted manner. The grip body should be
manufacturable in a simple manner with few method steps as well as inexpensively despite the
application of different functional material components in the grip body. The manufacture of the
injection moulding mould should be inexpensive and make do with a minimal sequence of
cavities. Advantageously therefore, several material components should be injected in a cavity.
Moreover, the grip body should permit a high degree of automisation in manufacture and be
manufacturable in large piece numbers.
         The invention is achieved by the independent claims 1, 10 and 17. The dependent claims
contain particular embodiments and further developments of the invention. Thereby, features of
the method claims, the device claims and the product claims can be combined with one another
where it makes sense.
         The invention is then characterised in that the first and second material components have
a common injection point (gate point) which is arranged outside a mould partition line formed by
the mould partition. The grip body comprises a head part, on which a functional part, e.g. a brush
body, a cosmetics applicator or a blade arrangement is arranged, a grip part, at which the grip
body is held by the user and a neck part which connects the grip part and head part to one
another.
         In a preferred further development of the grip body, at least the grip part comprises a
jacket body of the first material component and a core body of the second material component
which is at least partly enveloped by the jacket body. The jacket body is preferably characterised
in that this at least partly forms the surface of the grip part or of the grip body.
         The second material component can be arranged only in the grip part, only in the grip
part and neck part or in the grip part as well as in the neck part and head part. The second
material component can also be formed in the neck part or in the neck part and head part as a
core body which is surrounded at least partly or even completely by a jacket body of the first
material component.
         In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the grip body, preferably with the exception
of the injection point, comprises a core body of the second material component which is

                                                     3
completely surrounded by the jacket body of the first material component and which is only
formed in the grip part, in the grip part and the neck part or in the grip part, neck part and head
part.
         Moreover, one can also envisage the core body in the grip part, in the neck part and/or in
the head part, in regions breaking through the jacket body to the surface of the grip body and
forming a surface section of the grip body.
          The jacket body of the first material component which surrounds the second material
component can e.g. have a thickness of 0.5 - 5 mm and in particular of 1.5 - 3 mm.
         According to a particularly preferred embodiment of the invention, the second material
component formed in the grip part as a core body, towards the head part, breaks out of the
enveloping jacket body of the first material component and comes to the surface of the grip
body. According to this embodiment, the head part can consist completely of the second material
component. This embodiment is based on the finding that the material component in the head
part is to fulfil a different technical function than the material component in the grip part. For this
reason, different material components should be used in the grip part and the head part. Thus for
example, it could be important for the material component which forms the surface of the grip
part, to be characterised by good haptics, whereas the material component forming the head part
should ensure a sufficient stiffness.
         Moreover, it is possible in the grip part to use a material which is not suitable for certain
functions in the head part and which for example is not suitable for the AFT method described
later (the welding of carrier plates to the head part requires certain material combinations).
Injection moulded interdental brushes can likewise be formed in this manner The grip as a first
material component provides the stability, whilst the second material component shapes the
bristle field region or the bristles, and this corresponds to different functionalities. Last but not
least, it is also possible for less expensive or also recycled materials to be applied for the parts
which are less functionally demanding, than for the functionally demanding parts.
          The common injection point of the first and second material component is arranged on
the front side or on the rear side of the grip body, preferably on the rear side of the grip body.
The injection point is further preferably arranged n a middle longitudinal axis of the grip body.
The front side is that side of the grip body, on which the functionally effective part of the
functional part lies. With a toothbrush, this is the bristles. Moreover, a thumb rest for supporting
the hold grip preferably also lies on the front side at the front end section of the grip part. The
rear side is accordingly the side which is opposite to the front side.

                                                   4
         Without any particular measures, the second material component comes to the surface of
the grip body at the injection point. On account of this, one can envisage the first material
component being injected again in such a quantity subsequently to the injection of the second
material component, that the injection point is likewise formed from the first material point, so
that the jacket body also consists of the first material at the injection point. The second material
component is completely enclosed by material of the first material component in this manner.
         The surface share which the second material component assumes at the injection point
depends on above all on the cooling time of the first material component. A longer cooling time
entails less of a surface share than a short cooling time.
         The mould partition line of the tool cavity is preferably located laterally between the front
and rear side. Moreover, the injection point of the first and the second material component is
preferably arranged in the grip part. The injection point is preferably distanced by 1 to 20 mm,
and in particular 3 to 8 mm from the grip-side end. In the case that further material components
are applied, their injection point can be arranged on the grip point at any location in the
longitudinal direction, and preferably on the middle longitudinal axis in the transverse direction.
         In a particular further development of the grip body, this comprises at least one through
opening. The through-opening is preferably arranged in the grip part, the neck part or in the
transition between the grip part and neck part. In the region of the through-opening, the grip
body is temporarily divided into two or more part-arms in the longitudinal direction, and these
part-arms unify again into a body and thus enclose the through-opening. The part-arms can in
each case comprise a jacket body of the first material component and a line-like resp. a leg-like
core body of the second material component which is enveloped by the jacket body, or consist of
these. Moreover it is also possible for the part-arms in cross section to only consist of the first or
the second material component.
         The two line-like core bodies then, with the coming-together of the part-arms towards the
head part can
a.       reunify, and run further as a common, line-like core body enveloped by the jacket body,
         or
b.       run further parallel to one another towards the head part as separate part-lines enveloped
         by the jacket body, and preferably run out in a tongue-like manner in the neck part or
         head part.
         The grip body preferably comprises at least one third material component of a
thermoplastic plastic which is preferably soft-elastic, and for example consists of a thermoplastic
elastomer. The third material component for example is integrally formed on the grip body in a

                                                    5
separate injection moulding step and amid the formation of its own injection point in a further
injection moulding cavity.
        The third material component e.g. serves for forming a thumb rest. Moreover, this third
material component can also be provided for decorative purposes or due to ergonomic aspects as
a holding element in the grip body. Moreover, the third material component can also serve for
the covering of a longitudinal section of the grip region in the region of a break-out of the second
material component from the first material component. The subsequent embodiment examples
are referred to with regard to a detailed description with respect to this.
        The third material component is integrally formed onto the grip body for example in the
region of a through-opening described above. The third material component can partly or
completely cover the part-arms and/or close the through-opening. Moreover, the third material
component can also be arranged in other regions on the grip body. The application of the third
material component at a through-opening can also be aimed at local increase of the flexibility of
the grip body.
        Yet further material components can be integrally formed, apart from the third material
component. These can be designed in each case as hard components or soft components, and be
arranged in the head part, neck part and/or grip part. The further material components can
likewise be processed according to the invention in the same manner as the first and second
material components. The third and, as the case may be, further material components can contact
only the first, only the second, or the first and the second material component.
        Moreover, it is however also possible not to process the mentioned first and second
material component first of all in the injection moulding method. Thus firstly, a base body,
preferably of one or more hard components and, as the case may be, partly of soft components
can be manufactured. Subsequently, the first and the second material components can be applied
onto the base body. As the case may be, the mentioned third or further material components can
yet be attached subsequently to this. Further special geometric arrangements of the material
components according to the invention are possible in the grip body by way of this. Thus the
base body provides a basis for a further material body, for example in order to apply the material
combination according to the invention at special locations in the grip body. Thus for example a
grip part can be injection moulded as a base body, wherein subsequently the method according to
the invention is only applied in the region of the neck part and/or head part.
        The grip body of the first and second material component is preferably reapplied into a
further tool cavity, for integrally forming the third or further material components. The third or
further material component is then injected in this tool cavity. As mentioned, the mentioned

                                                   6
through-opening on the grip body can serve for the creation of a thumb rest. The through
opening is partly or completely peripherally injected with a material component for this.
         The first and second material component can differ in the material nature and/or colour.
Preferably, the two material components consist of different plastics and/or of different colours
or transparencies. As a special design, thus the first and second material component of the same
material with different colours can be applied.
         The following material combinations are possible:
                         first material component        second material component
combination     1:       hard component                  hard component
combination    2:        hard component                  soft component
combination    3:        soft component                  hard component
combination    4:        soft component                  soft component
         The hard component is characterised by a hard grip and a comparatively high bending
stiffness. It is applied in particular in the head part and neck part and also as a core body in the
grip part and gives the body stability. It is clear from this that the second material component is
particularly preferably a hard component.
         Two equal materials with different colours or two different materials with the same or
different colours can explicitly be used with a combination of 1 and 4.
        Different thermoplastic plastic can be used as hard components. Thus in particular the
following thermoplastic plastic is suitable as a hard component:
     -  styrene polymerisates such as styrene acrylonitrile (SAN), polystyrene (PS), acrylonitrile
        butadiene styrene (ABS), methyl methacrylate styrene (SMMA) or butadiene styrene
        (SB);
     -  polyolefins such as polypropylene (PP) or polyethylene (PE), for example also in the
        form of high density polyethylene (HDPE) or low density polyethylene (LDPE);
     -  polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET) in the form of acid-modified
        polyethylene terephthalate (PETA) or glycol-modified polyethylene terephthalate
        (PETG), polybutylene terephthalate (PTB), acid-modified polycyclohexylene
        dimethylene terephthalate (PCT-A) or glycol-modified polycyclohexylene dimethylene
        terephthalate (PCT-G);
     -   cellulose derivatives such as cellulose acetate (CA), cellulose aceto butyrate (CAB),
         cellulose propionate (CP), cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP) or cellulose butyrate (CB);

                                                  7
     -  polyamides (PA) such as PA 6.6, PA 6.10 or PA 6.12;
     -  polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA);
     -  polycarbonate (PC);
     -  polyoxymethylene (POM);
     -  polyvinyl chloride (PVC);
    -   polyurethane (PUR)
        Particularly   preferably   however,      polypropylene       (PP)   or    an    acid-modified
polycyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate (PCT-A) is applied as a hard component. PCT-A
on account of its excellent transparent characteristics is particularly suitable as the first material
component which as is known forms the jacket body. The hard component of PP preferably has
an E-module of 100 - 2400 N/mm 2, preferably of 1300 to 1800 N/mm 2.
        The soft component is characterised by its soft-elastic characteristics which applied on
the surface of the grip body ensures a pleasant grip (haptics). It is particularly clear from this that
the first material component or also the third and further material component is a soft
component.
        Different thermoplastic elastomers (TPEs) can be applied as soft components. Thus in
particular the following thermoplastic elastomers are applied as soft components:
    -   thermoplastic polyurethane elastomers (TPE-U)
    -   thermoplastic styrene elastomers (TPE-S) such as styrene ethylene butylene styrene
        copolymer (SEBS) or styrene butadiene styrene copolymer (SBS)
    -   thermoplastic polyamide elastomers (TPE-A)
    -   thermoplastic polyolefin elastomers (TPE-0)
    -   thermoplastic polyester elastomers (TPE-E)
        TPE-S is preferably applied as a soft component. Moreover, the thermoplast polyethylene
(PE) and polyurethane (PU) can be used as hard components as well as soft components. The
Shore A hardnesses of the soft component preferably lie below 90 Shore A.
        The first and second material component and in particular the soft components and the
hard component preferably form a material fit in the injection moulding method. However, it is
also conceivable not for a material fit to arise, but a positive fit, depending on the choice of the
material components and the method parameters. Regions with a material fit and positive fit can
alternate.

                                                  8
        Moreover, the applied material components can also have a different shrinkage behaviour
(shrinkage degree) or material-fit behaviour, so that a special optical effect sets in at the contact
surface of the first and second material component.
         The inner material component in this case has a higher shrinkage degree than the outer
material component. With this, the inner material component shrinks greater than the outer
material component, by which means a gap arises. Such an effect can arise for example if the
first material component is a PCTA, and PP is used as a second material component. The effect
arises due to the different shrinkage behaviours and an empty space (vacuum) or partition surface
between the two components arising by way of this.
         The geometric design of the body per se can support this optical effect or render it having
an improved effect. Thus for example triangular shapes support these optical effects.
        Moreover, it is also possible for the mentioned effect to be triggered not until a bending
of the body. I.e. the layers separate by way of the bending, by which means the empty space or a
partition surface is created.
         The grip body is preferably used as a grip body of a manual or electrical toothbrush (grip
housing). These can be disposable or multiple-use toothbrushes in the field of manual
toothbrushes. The electrical toothbrushes can execute oscillating, pivoting, translatory or
combined movements. Furthermore, the electrical toothbrushes can be designed e.g. as sonic
toothbrushes or vibration toothbrushes. Moreover, the grip body according to the invention can
also be applied in tongue cleaners, in apparatus for dental interstice care, such as interdental
brushes, flossers, toothpicks or interdental cleaning apparatus which combine the mentioned
interdentally brushes, flossers and toothpicks, with wet shavers or generally with body care
applicators. Such body care applicators can e.g. be nail varnish brushes or mascara applicators.
Moreover, the grip body according to the invention can be used in household articles. These e.g.
can be brooms, floor wipers, or dishwashing brushes.
         One aspect of the invention is the application of this in the field of the housing of
electrical toothbrushes or generally toothbrushes with hollow bodies as grip bodies. These bodies
are preferably at least partly designed similarly to hollow cylinders and have relative thin wall
thicknesses. The second material component is likewise injected after the injection of the first
material component. This second material component due to the relative thin-walled design at
least partially comes to the surface and is also at the surface in the region of the injection point.
For example, this application can serve the formation of functional elements at or on the hollow
body. For example a hard component can be used as a first material component and a soft

                                                     9
component as a second material component. The soft components can be applied in the region of
the location which is used for operating the on/off switch or other switches.
         The toothbrush manufactured out of the grip body according to the invention comprises a
bristle field of a plurality of individual bristles and which is applied in the head part. The head
part consists of a hard component, and can supplementarily also comprise a soft component. The
soft component can serve the formation of a tongue cleaner on the rear side of the head part or
also the formation of soft-elastic massage elements and cleaning elements in the bristle field. The
bristle field can be attached onto the head part by way of known technology. The bristles of a
bristle field can consist of a different or of the same material.
         The bristles can for example be injected and for example consist of one of the following
plastics:
     -   polyamide elastomer (e.g. Grilflex ELG 5930 of Ems-Chemie AG)
     -   polyester elastomer (e.g. Riteflex 672 RF Nat or Riteflex RKX 193 RF Nat of Ticona
         Polymers or Hytrel 7248 of DuPont).
         The plastics for injected bristles for example have a Shore D hardness of 0 to 100,
preferably 30 to 80.
         Conventionally manufactured bristles, which for example can be pointed or cylindrical,
are preferably manufactured of polyamide (PA) or polyester (PBT).
         The fastening of the bristles in the head part can be effected in different manners. For
example, the anchor free tufting (AFT) method can be applied. With the AFT method (anchor
free tufting) the conventional cylindrical or pointed bristles or the bristle bundle are fastened on
the head part or a carrier platelet without the help of an anchor. The rounded bristles thereby are
profiled in a bundled manner and with their end which is opposite to the free used end are pushed
through openings in the carrier platelet, so that an end region of the bristle bundle projects
beyond the lower side of the carrier platelet. The bristles are fastened by way of melting, bonding
or welding, on this end region of the bristles which projects beyond the lower side of the carrier
platelet. The carrier platelet with the conventional bristles fastened therein is then anchored in the
recess of the head region of the toothbrush, for example by way of ultrasonic welding. The recess
in the head region thereby is specially adapted to the geometry of the carrier platelet. The carrier
platelet or also the head region of the toothbrushes, apart from the conventional bristles, can
comprise soft-elastic massage and cleaning elements.
         Alternatively, a hard component or soft component is injected over the carrier platelet in
an injection moulding tool, in order to form the grip body around the carrier platelet.

                                                  10
        Furthermore, the bristles can be fastened in the grip body by way of the conventional
anchoring method. For this, the bristle bundle is folded by way of a metal anchor platelet and
subsequently fixed in bristle receiving holes. The bristle bundle comprises two halves due to the
folding by way of the anchor, and these halves in each case encompass one of the ends of the
folded bristles. The post-machining such as profiling and cutting is subsequent to the fastening of
the bristles, depending on the bristle type. The head region of the toothbrush with the bristle
receiving holes can thereby additionally be provided with soft-elastic massage elements and
cleaning elements.
        Of course, other bristling methods such as TAP (integrated anchorless production) or IMT
(in mould tufting) can also be used for the insertion of the bristles. As described, the bristles can
of course be formed directly from the plastic material in the injection moulding tool by way of
injection moulding.
         So-called bio-plastics are likewise useable as bristle material or as one of the material
components. These are plastics which are manufactured of renewable raw materials.
        The invention moreover relates to a method for manufacturing an elongate grip body of a
body care article, in particular a toothbrush, from at least two material components. The method
also relates to the injection moulding of at least two material components in an injection
moulding tool by way of a hot-runner method. In known injection moulding methods according
to the hot-runner method, a part-body of a first material component is injected in a first tool
cavity of an injection moulding tool. The part-body is subsequently reapplied into a further and
larger tool cavity, into which a second material component is injected, which fills out the
remaining mould cavity in the tool cavity and connects to the first material component with a
positive fit. This method however is very complicated and accordingly expensive.
        The method according to the invention is thus characterised in that at least two plastic
components are injected via a common injection point into a common tool cavity of the injection
moulding tool by way of the subsequently mentioned method steps. The method steps comprise:
-   injection moulding a first material component into the tool cavity and partial filling of the
    tool cavity with the first material component through a hot-runner nozzle;
-   cooling the injected first material component in the tool cavity, wherein at least one flowable
    soul is preserved in the first material component;
-   injection moulding a second material component into the tool cavity of the injection
    moulding tool through the same hot-runner nozzle and further, preferably complete filling of
    the tool cavity with the second material component.

                                                   11
        As regards to the tool cavity, this is preferably designed as a longitudinal cavity with a
longitudinal axis, in a manner corresponding to the nature of the grip part to be manufactured. If
the tool cavity is completely filled with the second material component, then on injecting the
second material component, the injection pressure is maintained for completion of the injection
moulding step and a so-called holding pressure applied, so that the tool cavity is completely
filled. This holding pressure however is done away with on injecting the first material
component, since the tool cavity is not completely filled with the first material component and
thus also no counter-pressure arises.
        The first and the second material component are injected temporally one after the other
and not with one another, into the same tool cavity. A cooling phase, in which the first material
component cools and partly solidifies in the tool cavity, is effected between the injection of the
first and second material component. The tool cavity or its walls can be actively cooled in the
cooling phase. The cooling phase can e.g. be 2 to 35 seconds. Amongst other things, it is
dependent on the design of the grip body.
        The wall thickness of the first material component can be significantly influenced by the
intensity and the duration of the cooling. It is now possible not to cool the tool cavity in a
uniform or symmetrical manner but to cool different regions of the tool cavity differently greatly
or for a differently long period of time, so that different wall thickness of the first material
component arise seen over the component. This means that the component cools to a different
extent or solidifies to a different extent. This in turn influences the design of the flowable soul
and thus the flow behaviour and the distribution of the subsequently injected second material
component in the tool cavity. For this reason, one can achieve special structures in the material
distribution in the grip body by way of a targeted or asymmetrical cooling of the tool cavity or
cavity wall. These particular structures can serve a functional purpose and/or contribute to a
particular optical appearance.
        Thus the first material component in the tool cavity has already cooled somewhat at the
point in time of the injection of the second material component. The outer regions of the mould
mass solidify first of all whilst the core cools last of all and remains flowable for longer, since the
cooling of the mould mass departs from the wall of the tool cavity. For this, the cavity wall can
be actively cooled, in order thus to be able to better control the solidification process. The
cooling however can also be effected passively, by way of heat removal through the injection
moulding tool.
        This means that at a certain stage of the process, the injected first mould mass has an
outer jacket body towards the cavity wall, and this body is no longer flowable due to the

                                                   12
advancing solidification process. Not flowable in this context means that this mould mass cannot
be displaced by the second material component in the subsequent further injection moulding
step. The mould mass however still comprises a warmer core body which is surrounded by the
jacket body and in which the mould mass is still flowable. This core body is also called hot soul
or plastic soul. The volume of the non-flowable jacket body as well as of the flowable core body
at the point in time of the injection of the second material component can be controlled via the
intensity of the cooling and the time interval between the first and the second injection moulding
step, by way of a control device. Different distribution patterns of the two material components
within the grip body can be achieved in dependence on the total volume of the injected first
material component as well as on the volume of the flowable core body or of the jacket body.
 Such different material distributions are explained in more detail by way of the embodiment
examples specified further below.
          The hot soul of the first material component previously injected into the tool cavity is
substituted by the second material component during the injection moulding of the second
material component and is displaced in the material flow direction into a still empty region of the
tool cavity. The first material component which bears on the cavity wall and which is at least
partly solidified on the other hand is not displaced and at least partly surrounds the flowing-in
second material component.
          The injection point lies outside the mould partition line of the tool cavity. The tool cavity
is preferably designed in an elongate manner and has a longitudinal axis, corresponding to the
mature of an elongate grip body. The injection point is preferably applied such that the material
components are injected into the cavity transversely to the longitudinal axis of the tool cavity.
This means that the closure direction of the needles is preferably at an angle of 850 to 90' (angle
degrees) to the longitudinal axis of the tool cavity. This effects a deflection of the material flow
in the direction of the longitudinal axis which also corresponds to the material flow direction in
the tool cavity when the material flow meets the opposite cavity wall or the jacket body. Hereby,
the injected material is deflected in particular at the cavity wall lying opposite the injection point.
This type of injection of the plastic components is known per se and is not new. Amongst other
things, it is ensured by way of this that both end sections of the elongate tool cavity are
completely filled with material.
         In the present invention, this type of injection of the plastic components however has yet
a further advantage. According to a first method step, specifically a part space of the tool cavity
is first to be filled with the first material component. In particular, no material should penetrate
into the space section of the tool cavity which is not yet to be filled. One can prevent the injected
first material distributing over the whole length of the tool cavity due to the fact that the injection
direction lies transversely to the longitudinal direction of the tool cavity.

                                                  13
         The injection point can now be arranged on an end section of the grip body, so that the
second material component only moves in one material flow direction and the hot soul is only
displaced in the one material flow direction. However, one can also envisage the injection point
being arranged between the end sections of the grip body, e.g. in a middle region, and the second
material component propagating in two opposite material flow directions and the soul of the first
material component being displaced in two opposite directions. In this manner for example, one
can design a grip body which at two ends has a functional part of the second material component.
         In a preferred further development of the invention, the subsequently injected second
material component breaks out of the first material component surrounding this, in the material
flow direction. The end section of the tool cavity which forms the head part and which is at the
front in the material flow direction, is thereby filled with the second material component at least
partly, preferably completely. This for example is the case if the total volume of the tool cavity
minus the total volume of the injected first material component is greater than the flowable soul
displaced by the second material component.
         According to another further development of the invention, the second material
component displaces the flowable soul of the first material component in the material flow
direction, wherein the displaced soul in the material flow direction fills the front end section of
the tool cavity, so that the second material component is completely surrounded by the first
material component except for at the injection point. This for example is the case if the total
volume of the tool cavity minus the total volume of the injected first material component is
smaller than the flowable soul displaced by the second material component.
         According to a particular further development of the invention, the tool cavity in the
material flow direction or longitudinal direction temporarily divides into at least two part
channels which lead along the longitudinal axis around an insert core and subsequently reunify.
The part-channels enclose at least one through-opening on the grip body to be manufactured.
         On injecting the second material component, the flowable soul of the first material
component is now displaced in the material flow direction into a front end section of the tool
cavity. The second material component follows the tool cavity and the displaced soul whilst
forming two part-lines through the part-channels. The two part-lines subsequently to the
unification of the two part-channels in the neck part run separately and parallel to one another
amid the formation of two tongue-like run-outs. In this case, the displaced soul completely fills
out at least the head part.

                                                    14
        The two part-lines have a distance of 0.3 mm to 3 mm, preferably of 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm.
If the part-lines run out asymmetrically, which is to say that they are not equally long, then their
ends have a distance in the longitudinal axis direction of maximally 10 mm, preferably of
maximally 5 mm to one another.
        According to a further particular design of the invention, the tool cavity in certain regions
can be narrowed, so that a similar effect as with a through-opening is achieved.
        After injecting the first material component, this due to the diameter ratio in the region of
the narrowing at this location, from both sides will cool such that the two initially opposite layers
already unify in the first cooling phase.
        The second material component now will flow around this cooled zone on injecting. The
second material component thereby follows the tool cavity and the displaced soul amid the
formation of two part-lines through the part-channels. The two part-lines, subsequently to the
unification of the two part-channels in the neck part now run separately and parallel to one
another amid the formation of two tongue-like run-outs.
        The diameter or the distance of the surfaces in the wall region, in which the layers unify,
is between 0.3 and 5 mm preferably between 0.5 mm and 1.5 mm. Thereby, the wall thickness is
directly related to the method. Greater masses necessitate more cooling time, and smaller masses
less cooling time. Such a narrowing directly influences the cycle time, depending on how the
remaining body is designed. The part-lines with regard to their dimensions are designed as
previously described.
        One can envisage the first material component being injected again in such a quantity
subsequently to the injection of the second material component, that the injection point is
likewise formed of the first material component, so that the jacket body also consists of the first
material at the injection point.
        In a further application, it is possible to design the surface of the first material component
in a non-continuous, i.e. structured manner. This means that for example step-like steps or stages
etc. can be integrated into the surface. This leads the flow of the second component behaving in a
continuous manner and forming an opposite to the outer contour within the first material
component.
        According to a further application, the tool cavity is not of a constant size. The size of the
tool cavity will change between the first and the second injection moulding step. This can serve
to form special geometries in the grip part or also to achieve special optical effects. For this

                                                  15
purpose, a core for example can be pulled after the introduction of the first material component
for example, in order to enlarge the tool cavity, so that the second material component has
further propagation possibilities.
         The invention moreover also relates to an injection moulding tool for carrying out the
method described above. The plastic molten mass as known is transported from a plastification
assembly via a hot-runner system into the tool cavity on injection moulding thermoplastics.
         Now, one differentiates between the so-called hot-runner technologies and cold-runner
technology in injection moulding technology. Hot-runner technology or a hot-runner system is
with the injection moulding of thermoplasts is indicated as a system which is thermally insulated
and has a higher temperature, compared to the remaining injection moulding tool. A hot-runner
system is thermally separated from the rest of the tool and is separately heated, so that the plastic
molten mass therein remains permanently flowable. No solidification of the plastic in the hot
runner system occurs by way of this, and no sprue remains on the component. Furthermore, also
longer flow paths can be realised by way of the hot-runner sytems, since the pressure loss in the
hot-runner system is not increased by a cooling of the molten mass and the increase in viscosity
entailed by this.
         The hot-runner ends at the hot-runner nozzle which represents the transition from the
material feed to the tool cavity in the injection moulding tool. The hot-runner nozzles as well as
the hot-runner system are set to the temperature window, in which the plastic can be plastically
processed. A hot-runner regulation which permanently compares desired and actual temperatures
and controls them with a closed loop is applied for the closed-loop control of the temperature. A
hot-runner system moreover is a closed system, with which the injection point is closed by a
particular technique. This is effected by one or more closure needles which are part of a needle
closure system. The closure needles for example are actuated by a separately activatable
mechanism, e.g. electrically, pneumatically or hydraulically.
         With regard to the needle closure system, the gate diameter after the injection of the
plastic mass is closed by the closure needle, which for example can be of steel. The displaced
material is pressed into the plastic part. The needle is flush or aligned with the surface of the
plastic part. One can therefore only see a round marking on the injected product. The hot-runner
system described above is then applied in the injection moulding tool according to the invention.
         In contrast, with the cold-runner system, the cold-runner system is not thermally
insulated from the rest of the tool. The tool as well as the cold-runner system located therein is
temperature-controlled to temperatures significantly below the processing temperature of the
plastic. The thermoplastic plastic also solidifies in the cold-runner system during the production

                                                   16
of a component due to this. This solidified plastic is called sprue or sprue system. A few
disadvantages for this type of injection of plastic into an injection moulding tool result due to
this.
         Thus the sprue must be separated from the component in a second working step. This can
either be effected by way of additional functional elements in the tool or after removal from the
mould in a manual manner or by machine. As a rule, a marking remains on the component after
the separation of the sprue. Sharp edges can often remain without further post-machining steps.
         As a consequence, a part of the raw material does not flow into the finished product and
must either be reused or disposed of. Thus the shot volume increases by way of the sprue, and
more plastic must be plasticised than is finally present in the product. This is disadvantageous
with regard to energy as well as the machine output. Moreover, the material costs due to the
applied added material have a negative effect on the economics, in particular with expensive
technical thermoplasts. The necessary post-machining of the product in the region of the
injection point has a negative effect on the process efficiency and economics.
         EP-A-1 346 808 then describes a hot-runner system for manufacturing injection moulded
parts such as salad sieves, from two different thermoplastic plastics. The closure needle system
operates with a single closure needle led in a runner, by way of which material feed channels
arranged in an axial offset manner and which run out laterally into the runner can be closed. On
injecting the first material, the channel confluence for the second material and which lies further
distanced to the injection point is indeed sealed off by the closure needle, so that only the first
material is injected into the tool cavity via the runner. On injecting the second material
component however, the channel confluence for the first material must however be held open. A
counter-pressure however is applied in the runner, in order despite this, to prevent the entry of
the first material into this runner. The solution is complicated and is technically unsatisfactory,
since it does not permit a strict material separation with the injection procedure.
         It is therefore known to provide several closure needles which individually close the
individual material feed channels. These closure needles with regard to the design are directed to
a certain operating temperature and no longer seal satisfactorily given a significant deviation
from the operating temperature. This is based on the fact that longitudinal expansion effects no
longer permit a complete closure or sealing. The sealing in this case is effected by the closure
needle onto a conical surface at the end of the needle. Length extension or expansion effects are
transmitted 1:1 onto the sealedness due to this.
         The injection moulding tool according to the invention is likewise designed as a tool with
a hot-runner system of the type mentioned above, which comprises a hot-runner nozzle which

                                                   17
runs out into a tool cavity and which is designed as a needle closure nozzle. The hot-runner
nozzle comprises a first closure needle designed as a hollow needle as well as a second cylinder
shaped closure needle which can be inserted into the hollow needle nozzle. The first closure
needle in the hot-channel nozzle, with the outwardly lying channel or runner wall forms an outer
material feed channel and with its axial through-opening forms an inner material feed channel.
        The invention is now characterised in that the hot-runner nozzle comprises a cylinder
shaped outlet opening, and the first closure nozzle a cylinder-shaped end section which is
designed such that this can be inserted into the outlet opening with a positive fit, in order thus to
seal the outer material feed channel to the tool cavity, amid the formation of a cylindrical sealing
surface running parallel to the closure direction.
        In a further development of the invention, the second closure needle likewise comprises a
cylinder-shaped end section. The through-opening in the end section of the first closure needle is
likewise cylinder-shaped and is designed in a manner such that the second closure needle can be
inserted into the through-opening at the end section of the first closure needle with a positive fit.
In this manner, the second closure needle is capable of sealing off the inner material feed channel
to the tool cavity, amid the formation of a cylindrical sealing surface running parallel to the
closure direction.
        The closure needles can have lengths of 50 mm to 150 mm, in particular of about 100
mm. The diameter of the first closure needle is between 8 mm and 20 mm, preferably between
10 mm and 15 mm. The wall thickness of the first hollow-cylinder-shaped closure needle can be
0.3 - 1.2 mm, in particular 0.4 to 0.8 mm. The cylinder-shaped outlet opening of the first closure
needle can have an axial length of 0.5 - 1.5 mm, in particular 0.7 - 0.9 mm.
        The diameter of the second closure needle can be 0.6 - 2.5 mm, in particular 0.8 - 1.2
mm. The cylinder-shaped end section of the first closure needle can have an axial length of 1.2
2.4 mm, in particular from 1.5 to 2.1 mm.
        The diameter of the second closure needle or the wall thickness of the first closure
needle, the hollow needle, depends very much on the plastic component to be processed. Lower
injection moulding pressures can be applied with material components of a low viscosity, i.e.
with a good flowing behaviour, and the diameter of the material feed channels or the wall
thicknesses and diameter of the nozzle components can be designed smaller, than if material
components with a higher viscosity, i.e. with a poor flow behaviour must be processed. Thus the
diameter or the wall thicknesses with the processing of polypropylene (PP) or a thermoplastic
elastomer (TPE) must be smaller than with the processing of acid-modified polycyclohexylene
dimethylene terephthalate (PCT-A).

                                                  18
        An injection moulding tool can comprise one or a plurality of tool cavities in each case
with a hot-runner nozzle. In the manner, several grip bodies can be simultaneously manufactured
in one injection moulding tool. It is advantageous to independently control the individual
injection moulding procedures with their associated tool cavities, although the injection
moulding cycles should preferably be led synchronously for manufacturing several grip bodies.
The hot-runner nozzles of the individual tool cavities are independently controllable in the
present invention. The control of the injection moulding procedure is preferably effected via a
control loop, into which the leading of the temperature also flows. The controls e.g. can be servo
controls. Thus for example in particular opening times for the first or also the second material
component can be individually set for each tool cavity. This procedure is based on the finding
that the temperature control of the individual tool cavities and hot-runner nozzles, on which
temperature control amongst other things the filling quantities or material quantities are also
dependent, as a rule is not the same over all tool cavities, so that the points in time of the switch
over from the condition "nozzle open" to "nozzle closed" must be individually set. There are
various factors which render the individual control of the hot-runner nozzles necessary. Thus e.g.
the length of the hot-runner system can be differently long with different hot-runner nozzles.
Moreover, the control of the heat economy over the complete injection moulding tool is also a
reason for the individual control of the hot-runner nozzles. Thus the smallest of temperature
changes in the injection moulding tool can have large effects on the manufacturing method.
        The invention permits the manufacture of grip bodies, in particular of toothbrushes, with
different optical appearance shapes and functional characteristics. Thus toothbrushes with a large
variability with regard to their functional characteristics and their optical appearance can be
manufactured thanks to the method according to the invention and the associated device. The
optical appearance is thereby defined by differently coloured or even transparent material
components, which visualise the solidified flow structures of the material components. The
functional characteristics are achieved by way of a targeted filling of the individual sections or
regions of the grip body with the first and/or second material component and, as the case may be,
further material components.
        As a further design variant there is the possibility of replacing the second material
component by a gas. With regard to the fashioning of the body, this means that the first material
component completely surrounds the gas (except the injection point) in the final body. A cavity
is formed by the gas in the inside of the body.
        With regard to tooling technology, the nozzle can be designed equally with regard to the
concept. However, certain differences result with regard to the tolerance and also additional seals

                                                    19
in the region of the needles can be necessary. Nitrogen or noble gases such as argon can be
applied as gases.
         A high processing or machining reliability and manufacturing accuracy is ensured despite
this large variability. The grip body according to the invention mover can be manufactured in a
fully automatic manner.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         The subject-matter of the invention is hereinafter described in more detail by way of
preferred embodiments which are represented in the accompanying drawings. The figures in
each case show grip bodies of toothbrushes in their phase of creation or as completed injection
moulded parts as well as parts of injection moulding tools. Shown schematically in each case are
in:
Figure 1 - 4             the manufacture of a grip body according to a first design variant by way
                         of four schematic representations of a grip body, which represent different
                         method stages in the manufacturing process;
Figure 5-8               the manufacture of a grip body according to a second design variant by
                         way of four schematic representations of a grip body which represent
                         different method stages in the manufacturing process;
Figure 9                 a plan view of a tool cavity for manufacturing a grip body after the
                         injection of the first material component;
Figure 10                a plan view of a grip body according to a first design variant according to
                         the Figures 1 to 4, after the injection of the second material component;
Figure 11                 a lateral view of the grip body according to Figure 10;
Figure 12                a plan view of a grip body according to an embodiment type of the second
                         design variant with a through-opening;
Figure 13:               a plan view of a further embodiment of a grip body according to an
                         embodiment type of the second design variant with a through-opening
                         which is closed by a third material component;

                                                  20
Figure 14:             a plan view of a further embodiment of a grip body according to an
                       embodiment type of the second design variant with a through-opening
                       which is closed by a third material component;
Figure 15a..b:         cross-sectional views through the grip body according to Figures 13, in
                       the region of the thumb rest;
Figure 16a..b:         cross-sectional views through the grip body according to Figure 14 in the
                       region of the thumb rest;
Figure 17- 18:         cross-sectional views through the grip part of the grip body according to
                       Figures 10 to 14 and 19;
Figure 19:             a plan view of a further embodiment of a grip body according to an
                       embodiment type of the second design variant with a through-opening;
Figure 20:             a plan view of a further embodiment of a grip body according to an
                       embodiment type of the first design variant, with a through-opening:
Figure 21:             a lateral view of the grip body according to Figure 20;
Figure 22-24:          cross-sectional views through the grip body according to Figure 20 and
                       21;
Figure 25-28:          cross-sectional views of a hot-runner nozzle according to the invention,
                       for manufacturing an injection moulded part;
Fig. 29a:              a plan view of a further embodiment of a grip body according to an
                       embodiment type of the first design variant with a narrowing, in cross
                       section;
Figure 29b             a lateral view of the grip body according to Figure 29a;
Figure 30a-30c         cross- sectional views through the grip body according to Figure 29a and
                       29b.
        The reference numerals used in the drawings and their significance are listed in a grouped
manner in the list of reference numerals. Basically in the figures, the same parts are provided
with the same reference numerals. The volume ratios of material components which are

                                                    21
represented in the figures serve only for illustration and do not necessarily correspond to a true
to-scale representation of the actual volume ratios.
         Moreover, the invention is not restricted to the embodiments or design variants which are
represented in the figures.
                        WAYS OF CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
         Figures 1 to 4 in a purely schematic manner show the manufacture of a grip body la
according to a first design variant. For manufacturing the shown grip body 1 in the first design
variant, a first material component 7 is injected into a tool cavity (not shown) in a first step. The
tool cavity or the grip body to be manufactured 1a is a longitudinal component and comprises a
grip part 4a, a neck part 3a and a head part 2a. The injection point 10 is arranged in the grip part
4a. The tool cavity in a first step is only partly filled with the first material component 7, wherein
at least the grip part of the tool cavity is completely or at least partly filled with the first material
component due to the arrangement of the injection point 10 in the grip part 4a. The injected first
material component 7 thereby assumes the contour of the tool cavity in the grip part 4a (see
Figure 1). Figure 1 schematically shows the outline contour of the body moulded in the first
injection procedure with the first material component 7. The head part 2a and preferably also the
neck part 3a of the tool cavity in contrast are not filled with the first material component 7
(compare also to Figure 9).
         The shown injection point 10 is indicated in this figure, as also in the further figures
which show a plan view. The detail corresponds to the position of the injection point 10 on the
body with a plan view. Normally, it is not visible due to its preferred position on the rear side of
the grip body, but is shown despite this for the purpose of explaining the technology.
         The injected first material component 7 subsequently to the first injection moulding step
cools from the cavity wall to the core, wherein a warmer and still flowable soul 7' remains,
which is surrounded by a jacket body 7" which is no longer flowable. This is represented
schematically in Figure 2. The flowable core 7' is represented in a hatched manner next to the
outline contour of the body which is moulded in the first injection procedure with the first
material component 7. The jacket body 7" which is no longer flowable is also recognisable.
         In further step, the second material component 8 is injected into the tool cavity of the
injection moulding tool through the same injection point 10. The result of this step is represented
in the Figures 3 and 4. The second material component 8 is injected in the bodies shown in
Figure 1 and 2 via the injection point 10 and displaces the flowable soul 7' in the direction of the

                                                   22
head part 2a, which corresponds to the material flow direction in the too cavity. According to the
present embodiment, the total volume of the tool cavity minus the volume of the injected first
material component 7 as well as the volume of the flowable soul 7' at the point in time of
injecting the second material component 8 is selected such that the soul 7' which is displaced into
the head part 2a assumes the volume of the complete head part 2a (see Figure 3). Thus the head
part 2a consists exclusively of the first material component 7 (see Figure 4).
The second material component 8 amongst other things assumes the place of the displaced soul
7' in the grip part 4a (substitution), extends up to the neck part 3a and runs out in the neck part 3a
in a tongue-like manner. The second material component 8 accordingly presses the flowable soul
7' onto the surface of the body and as a result is completely surrounded by the jacket body 7" and
the flowable soul 7' of the first material component 7, with the exception of the injection point
10. The result of the injection of the second material component is shown in Figures 3 and 4. In
Figure 3, it is schematically shown how the different material components distribute or arrange
themselves. The flowable soul 7' shown in Figure 2 is again to be recognised in Figure 3. As
described, the flowable soul 7' is displaced in the direction of the head part 2a. What can likewise
be recognised is the second material component 8 which takes the place of the flowable soul 7'.
This is indicated by a hatching.
Finally, one can recognise as to how the final product is divided up with regard to material in
Figure 4. After solidification, the jacket body 7" and the flowable soul 7' from the preceding
process steps form a unit of the first material component 7 which completely surrounds the
second material component 8. The second material component 8 is represented in a hatched
manner.
         As mentioned, once again a limited quantity of the first material component 7 can be
injected via the common injection point 10 by way of a third injection moulding step, so that the
second material component 8 is also surrounded by the first material component 7 in the region
of the injection point 10 and in particular does not come to the surface of the grip body la at any
location.
         According to the present first design variant, the first and the second material
components 7, 8 can be of a hard component of the type described above. The first material
component 7 can be transparent and the second coloured or opaque, in order to achieve an
optical effect. An interesting optical effect is achieved by way of this. The first material
component 7 can be a soft component, for example a TPE in order to achieve a soft surface. The
second material component 8 can be a hard component. Thereby, the hard component forms an
element which gives the grip stability.

                                                   23
        Figures 5 to 8 purely schematically show the manufacture of a grip body lb according to
a second design variant. In a first step, a first material component 7 is injected into a suitable tool
cavity (not shown) for manufacturing the grip body lb in the second design variant. The tool
cavity or the grip body lb to be manufactured is likewise a longitudinal component and
comprises a grip part 4b, a neck part 3b and a head part 2b. The injection point 10 is arranged in
the grip part 4b. The tool cavity in a first step is only partly filled with the first material
component 7, wherein at least the grip part is completely or at least partly filled due to the
arrangement of the injection point 10 in the grip part 4b. The injected first material component 7
thereby assumes the contour of the tool cavity in the grip part 4b (see Figure 5). Figure 5
schematically shows the outline contour of the body which is moulded with the first material
component in the first injection procedure. The head part 2b and preferably also the neck part 3b
of the tool cavity in contrast are not filled with the first material component 7 (compare Figure
9).
         The injected first material component 7 cools subsequently to the first injection moulding
step, from the cavity wall towards the core, wherein a warmer and still flowable soul 7' remains,
and this is surrounded by a jacket body 7" which is no longer flowable. This is schematically
shown in Figure 6. The flowable soul 7' is represented hatched next to the outline contour of the
body moulded with the first material component 7 in the first injection procedure. The no-longer
flowable jacket body 7" can also be recognised. In comparison the first design variant according
to Figures 1 to 4, here the cooling process has already advanced further and the volume of the
flowable soul 7' is accordingly smaller, or the wall thickness of the no longer flowable jacket
body 7" is greater.
        In a second step, the second material component 8 is injected into a tool cavity of the
injection moulding tool through the same injection point 10. The result of this step is represented
in Figures 7 and 8. The second material component is injected into the body shown in Figure 5
and 6 via the injection point 10 and displaces the flowable soul 7' in the direction of the head part
2b which corresponds to the material flow direction in the tool cavity. According to the present
embodiment, the total volume of the tool cavity minus the injected first material component 7 as
well as the volume of the flowable core 7' at the point in time of the injection of the second
material component 8 is selected in a manner such that the displaced soul 7" runs out in the front
grip part 4b or in the neck part 3b and only forms a jacket surface surrounding the second
material component 8 (see Figure 7). The volume of the soul 7' here is smaller than the volume
of the head part 2b. For this reason, the second material component 8 in the front section of the
grip part 4b or of the neck part 3b breaks out of the encasing through the first material
component 7 and penetrates up to the surface or up to the cavity wall. The second material
component 8 which has broken out to the front now fills the complete volume of the head part 2b
and preferably also of the neck part 3b completely or in parts (see Figure 8). Thus the head part

                                                 24
2b and, as the case may be, the neck part 3b consists exclusively of the second material
component 8. The second material component 8 moreover assumes the space of the displaced
soul 7' in the grip part 4b, but there however is still surrounded by a jacket body 7" of the first
material component 7. The second material component 8 of the grip body lb is no longer
completely surrounded by the jacket body 7" of the first material component 7. The result of the
injection of the second material component is shown in the Figures 7 and 8. It is schematically
shown in Figure 7 as to how the different material shares distribute or arrangement themselves.
The flowable core 7' shown in Figure 6 can again be recognised in Figure 7. It is displaced in the
direction of the head part 2a as described, but only up to the connection to the break-out location
of the second material component 8 from the no longer flowable jacket body 7". Likewise to be
recognised is the second material component 8 which comes to the place of the flowable soul 7'
and then exits from the no longer flowable jacket body 7" and forms the head part 2b. This
second component is likewise indicated by a hatching. Finally, the final product with regard to
the division of the materials is shown in Figure 8. After the solidification, the jacket body 7" and
the flowable soul 7" from the preceding process steps form a unit of the first material component
7 which surrounds the second material component 8. The second material component is
represented in a hatched manner, as long as it does not lie on the surface of the grip body 1b, and
is subsequently no longer hatched.
         As mentioned, once again a limited quantity of the first material component 7 can be
injected via the common injection point 10 by way of a third injection moulding step, so that the
second material component 8 is also surrounded by the first material component 7 in the region
of the injection point 10.
         According to the present second design variant, the first and the second material
component 7, 8 can be of a hard component of the type described above. The first material
component 7 can be transparent and the second be coloured or opaque or vice versa, in order to
achieved an optical effect. An interesting optical effect is achieved by way of this. The first
material component 7 can be a soft component for example a TPE, in order to achieve a soft
surface in the grip region, and the second material component 8 can be a hard component.
Thereby, the hard component forms an element which provides the grip with stability and finally
also at least partly forms the neck part 3b and the head part 2b and accordingly ensures the
functionality.
         Basically, one can mathematically calculate whether the first or the second design variant
is realised. The parameters which are used for the computation are the total volume of the tool
cavity, the total volume of the first material component, as well as the volume of the flowable
soul. Thereby, the volume of the flowable souk is time-dependent. I.e. the longer one waits or is
cooled between the injection cycles, the smaller is this volume, since it cools, i.e. it solidifies and

                                                  25
is no longer flowable. Then in each case the residual volume in the tool cavity is compared to the
volume of the flowable soul, in the assessment with regard to the design variant.
          The first design variant which is shown in the Figures 1 to 4, results due to the following
relation: the total volume of the tool cavity minus the total volume of the injected first material
component is smaller than the flowable soul which is displaced by the second material
component.
          The second design variant which is shown in the Figures 5 to 8 results due to the
following relation: the total volume of the tool cavity minus the total volume of the injected first
material component is larger than the flowable soul which is displaced by the second material
component.
          The difference of the two design variants with regard to the volume ratios can be
recognised when comparing Figures 4 and 6. With the first design variant, the flowable soul 7'
assumes more space that with the second design variant. This means more material is substituted
since the "flowable volume" is even greater.
          Figure 9 shows the tool cavity 21 of an injection moulding tool after a completed first
injection moulding procedure with a view from the mould partition onto the mould insert.
Basically, this corresponds to a view onto the tool cavity 21, given an opened injection moulding
tool after the first injection moulding procedure. The tool cavity 21 has a first material
component 7 which is injected in the first injection moulding step and which corresponds to the
represented material component 7 according to Figures 1 and 5. The body is represented in a
hatched manner. Thereby, one can clearly recognised that the tool cavity 21 is not completely
filled in the first injection moulding procedure. At least a part-region of the tool cavity 21
remains free. The contour of the tool cavity 21 can be recognised. The non-hatched regions are
not yet filled with material. The material flow direction M is also indicated. It is directed from
the injection point 10 in the direction of the head part 2a. After the grip part 4a is filled, the neck
part 3a and the head part 2a also fill.
          Figure 10 shows a plan view of the grip body la according to the first design variant
according to Figure 4. This is manufactured according to the steps shown in Figure 1 to 4. Bristle
receiving holes 5a, into which the bristles of the toothbrush are introduced, are arranged in the
head part 2a of the grip body la. The bristle receiving holes 5a in the present form however are
not an essential feature of the invention. The second material component 8 which lies in the grip
body la and which is completely surrounded by the first material component is represented in a
hatched manner. Moreover, the second material component 8 runs out in a tongue-like manner,
i.e. it does not end abruptly.

                                                  26
         Figure 11 shows the grip body la according to Figure 10 in a lateral view. The mould
partition line 12, along which the tool cavity was opened for removing the injection mould part
from the mould is particularly visible from the lateral view. The mould partition line 12 is
arranged laterally in a plan view of the grip body la. The mould partition line 12 runs without an
interruption around the complete body. It is to be recognised that the second material component
8 is arranged on both sides of the mould partition line 12, thus runs past this. It is well
recognisable in the lateral view as to how the shape of the second material component 8 follows
the geometry of the outer contour at a distance which corresponds to the wall thickness, and also
the tongue-like running-out of the second material component 8 can be easily recognised.
         Figures 12 to 14 show three grip bodies Ic, Id, le in a plan view, which are
manufactured according to an embodiment type of the second design variant. The grip body 1c
shown in Figure 12 can be used as an independent grip body without the application of a further
material component being necessary, or it can serve as a base body for the grip body Id and le.
The grip bodies Ic, Id, le likewise comprise a head part 2c, 2d, 2e, a neck part 3c, 3d, 3e as well
as a grip part 4c, 4d, 4e. The injection point 10 is likewise arranged in the grip part 4c, 4d, 4e and
preferably on the rear side of the grip part 4c, 4d, 4e.
         The present embodiment of the second design variant is characterised by a through
opening 11 which is in the front grip part 4c, 4d, 4e and is arranged to the head part 3c, 3d, 3e.
The through-opening 11 extends from the front side to the rear side and is delimited by two
lateral part-arms 6c, 6d, 6e. The grip bodies Ic, Id, le or their head part 2c, 2d, 2e comprise
bristle receiving holes 5c, 5d, 5e for receiving bristles which are fastened in the bristle receiving
holes 5c, 5d, 5e by way of anchoring. The bristle receiving holes in the present embodiment
however are not a necessary feature of the invention.
         The manufacture of the grip bodies Ic, Id and le is effected basically in an analogous
manner as the design variant according to the Figures 5 to 8, the only difference being that the
tool cavity now still has an insert core which defines the through-opening of the grip body to be
produced, and around which the material components 7, 8 flow in the material flow direction
amid the division into two part-arms 6c, 6d, 6e and the subsequent reunification.
         The first material component 7 in the grip part 4c, 4d, 4e and at least partly in a part
section of the part arms 6c, 6d, 6e which connects to the grip part 4c, 4d, 4e forms a jacket body
which encloses a core of the second material component 8. The material core departing from the
grip part 4c, 4d, 4e likewise divides into two part-arms which are led around the through-opening
(see Figure 12). The division happens because the cooling from the cavity wall also applies to the
insert core and thus the flowable soul also propagates into the part-arms 6c, 6d, 6e.

                                                  27
        The second material component 8 thus here too takes the place of the displaced soul 7' in
the grip part 4c, 4d, 4e, but there however is still surrounded by a jacket body of the first material
component 7. As mentioned, once again a limited quantity of the first material component 7 can
be injected via the common injection point 10 by way of a third injection moulding step, so that
the second material component 8 is also surrounded by the first material component 7 in the
region of the injection point 10.
        The second material component 8 of the grip body Ic, Id, le according to Figure 12, 13
and 14 in the region of the two part-arms breaks out of the encasing through the first material
component 7 and comes to the surface of the grip body Ic, Id, le over the whole periphery.
Accordingly, the connecting neck part 3c, 3d, 3e and the head part 2c, 2d, 2e are formed
completely by the second material component 8.
        The breaking-out of the second material component 8 in the region of the part-arms 6c is
deliberately selected. The region of the through-opening 11 is peripherally injected at least partly
with a third material component 9 for the purpose of forming a thumb rest 13, as is evident from
the embodiment according to Figure 13 and 14. The peripheral injection can be a covering of the
part-arms 6c towards the through-opening 11 (see Figure 13) or a covering around the grip body
le in the region of the through-opening (see Figure 14). The peripheral injection with the third
material component 9 thus has two functions. On the one hand it serves for forming a thumb rest
13 as a rest surface and on the other hand it serves for covering the transition region between the
first and the second material component in the region of the surface. In the variant shown in
Figure 12, the geometry of the through-opening 11 or the geometry around the through-opening
11 is selected such that these geometries form a thumb rest. In the case that the through-opening
11 is provided with a third material component, the geometry of the body lying therebelow does
not necessarily have to be designed in such a manner.
        The position of the break-out location is subjected to a certain tolerance amongst other
things due to fluctuations of the characteristics of the plastics, the thermal balance in the injection
moulding mould or in the hot- runner system and of the material metering of the second material
component 8 and the first material component 7. The break-out location can vary in the region of
the longitudinal axis. The position in the part-arms can also be unequal. Because of this, it is
important for aesthetic reasons that this transition region, can be covered e.g. with a third
material component 9.
        According to the present embodiment type of the second design variant, the first and the
second material component 7, 8 can be of a hard component of the type described above. One
can also envisage the second material component 8 being of a hard component and the first

                                                   28
material component 7 being of a thermoplastic elastomer of the type mentioned above. In order
to achieve an optical effect, the first material component 7 can be transparent and the second
material component 8 can be coloured, which is to say opaque, or vice versa. An interesting
optical effect is achieved by this. The first material component 87 can be a soft component, for
example a TPE, in order to achieve a soft surface in the grip region, and the second material
component 8 can be a hard component. Thereby, the hard component forms an element which
provides the grip with stability and finally also at least partly forms the neck part 3b and the head
part 2b and accordingly ensures the functionality.
          The second material component 8 which lies within the first material component 7 is
represented in a hatched manner in the Figures 12 to 14. The neck part 3c, 3d, 3e and the head
part 2c, 2d, 2e likewise consists of the second material component 8, but at this position however
this lies on the surface of the grip body 1c, ld, le and is therefore not represented in a dashed
manner.
          Figure 15a shows a cross section through the grip body Id according to Figure 13 along
the line B1-B1     in the grip-side region of the thumb rest 13. The two part-arms 6d comprise a
core of the second material component 8 which is completely encased by the first material
component 7. The outer side of the part-arms 6d which faces the through-opening 11 is moreover
coated with a third material component 9. Thereby, the through-opening is filled completely with
the third material component 9.
          Figure 15b shows a cross section through the grip body Id according to Figure 13 along
the line Al-Al in the head-side region of the thumb rest. The second material component 8 in the
material flow direction or in the direction of the head part 2d has already completely broken out
of the encasing through the first material component 7 at the height of the grip body ld and
completely fills out the volume of the part-arms 6d. The outer side of the part-arms 6d which
faces the through opening 11 here too is also coated by a third material component 9, and the
through-opening is completely filled with the third material component 9.
          A comparison of the Figures 15a and 15b shows that the composition of the cross
sections with regard to the material components or the cross-sectional areas of the material
components changes. Whereas in Figure 15a three material components are visible in cross
section, in Figure 15b it is then only two material components. The share of the first material
component 7 at the cross section decreases in the direction of the head part of the grip body, until
it is finally zero. Accordingly, the second material component 8 in the grip part or at the grip part
side is enclosed by the first material component 7, whilst it then is covered by the third material
component 9 in certain surface-parts on the head part side and is partly exposed.

                                                 29
          Figure 16a shows a cross section through the grip body le according to Figure 14 along
the line B2-B2 in the grip-side region of the thumb rest 13. The two part-arms 6e comprise a core
of the second material component 8 which is completely encased by the first material component
7. The part arms 6e as such are completely coated by the third material component 9 and the
through-opening is completely filled with the third material component 9. The outer side of the
part -arms 6e is thus coated with a third material component 9 over the whole periphery. The
break-out location of the second material component 8 from the first material component 7 can
be completely covered in this manner.
          Figure 16b shows a cross section through the grip body le according to Figure 14 along
the line A2-A2 in the head-side region of the thumb rest 13. The second material component 8 is
in the material flow direction or the direction of the head part 2e has already completely broken
out of the encasing by the first material component 7 at this height of the grip body le, and
completely fills out the volume of the part-arms 6e. The part-arms 6e as such are completely
coated with a third material component 9 and the through-opening is completely filled with the
third material component 9. With this, the outer side of the part-arms 6e is coated by a third
material component 9 over the whole periphery. The location of the break-out of the second
material component 8 from the first material component 7 can be completely covered by way of
this. A grip body with a regular look can be created in this manner, since the break-out location
which is burdened by a tolerance, is covered in this manner.
          A comparison of the Figures 16a and 16b shows that the composition of the cross
sections with regard to the material components or the cross-sectional areas of the material
components changes. Whereas in Figure 16b three material components are visible in cross
section, it is only two material components in Figure 16b. The share of the first material
component 7 in the cross sections reduces in the direction of the head part of the grip body, until
it is finally zero. Accordingly, the second material component 8 in the grip part or at the grip part
side is enclosed by the first material component 7, whereas then it is enclosed by the third
material component 9 at the head part side.
          The application of a third material component 9 which is shown in the figures can be
effected in different manners. It is shown in the figures that the third material component 9 is
attached on the body through a through-opening 11 and also encloses this body at least in certain
embodiments. The third material component 9 can of course also be applied, without it being led
through a through-opening 11. The third material component 9 for example can be applied onto
the surface of the existing parts by way of material fit characteristics. It is furthermore also
possible to permit positive fits permitting the application on the surface, by way of geometric
body designs.

                                                  30
        Moreover, the third material component can be arranged in all parts of the grip body i.e.
in the head part, neck part and/or grip part. The third material component thus for example in
head part of a toothbrush can serve for forming a tongue cleaner or soft-elastic massage and
cleaning elements. Moreover, the third material component can be a used for ergonomic or
fashion aspects. Of course, the different applications can be combined.
        Figure 17 shows a cross section through the grip body Ic, Id and le according to Figures
10, 12, 13 14 and 19 along the line C-C in the rear end section of the grip part 4c, 4d, 4e. The
grip part 4c, 4d, 4e comprises a core of the second material component 8 which is completely
encased by the first material component 7.
        Figure 18 shows a cross section through the grip body Ic, Id and le according to the
Figures 10, 12, 13, 14 and 19 along the line D-D in the rear end section of the grip part 4c, 4d, 4e
at the height of the injection point 10. The grip part 4c, 4d, 4e comprises a core of the second
material component 8 which is encased by the first material component 7. An opening through
the encasing is formed in the injection point 10, through which opening the second material
component 8 reaches to the surface. This opening typically represents the preferably cylindrical
injection point. Figure 18 shows what the injection point looks like if the first material
component 7 is not injected a second time. If as already described, one once again injects the first
material component 7 after injecting the second material component 8 then one can succeed in
the cylindrical opening through the jacket body again being closed with material of the first
material component 7. The second material component 8 would then not reach up to the surface.
        It is recognisable in the sectional representations of Figures 15 to 18 as well as 22 to 24
as to how the wall thickness of the jacket body of the first material component 7 forms. This has
a thickness of 0.5 mm - 5 mm and in particular of 1.5 mm - 3 mm. The wall thickness is basically
dependent on the cooling.
        Figure 19 shows a further embodiment type of the second design variant. The grip body
If likewise comprises a head part 2f, a neck part 3f as well as a grip part 4f. The injection point
10 in the grip part 4f is likewise visible. Moreover, the embodiment type is characterised by a
through-opening 11 arranged to the neck part 3f, in the front grip part 4f. The through-opening
extends from the front side to the rear side and is bordered in by two lateral part-arms. The grip
body If moreover comprises bristle receiving holes 5f for receiving bristles. The bristle receiving
holes 5f, 5g in the present case however are likewise not an essential feature of the invention.
        The manufacture of the grip body If is basically effected in an analogous manner as the
second design variant according to the Figures 5 to 8, with the exception that the tool cavity now
yet contains an insert core which defines the through-opening 11 of the grip body If to be

                                                  31
produced, and around which the material components 7, 8 flow amid the division into two part
arms 6f and subsequent reunification in the material flow direction.
         The first material component 7 in the grip part 4 as well as in the part-arms 6f forms a
jacket body which encloses a material core of the second material component 8. The material
core departing from the grip part 4f in the direction of the heat part 2f likewise divides into two
part-arms which are led around the through-opening 11. The second material component 8 thus
here assumes the place of the displaced soul 7' in the grip part 4f, but here however is still
surrounded by a jacket body of the first material component 7.
         As mentioned, a limited quantity of the first material component 7 can be injected via the
common injection point 10 by way of a third injection moulding step, so that the second material
component 8 is surrounded by the first material component 7 also in the region of the injection
point 10.
         The two part-arms of the second material component 8 of the grip body If according to
the embodiment according to Figure 19 reunify subsequently to the through-opening 11 in the
direction of the head part 2f, so that a common line enveloped by the first material component 7
propagates in the direction of the head part 2f. The second material component 8 here does not
break out of the encasing by the first material component 7 until subsequently to the through
opening 11, after the reunification of the part-arms and the material cores, and exits to the surface
of the grip body If over the whole periphery. This e.g. can be effected before or in the neck part
3f. Accordingly, the connecting neck part 3f or at least a section thereof as well as the head part
2f are formed completely by the second material component 8.
         Compared with Figure 12, it is such that the position of break-out location where the
second material component 8 breaks out of the first material component 7 is displaced towards
the head part 2f. In the present case, the position of the break-out location depends on the
material quantity which is injected into the tool cavity in the first injection moulding step. Since
the break-out location in the grip body If of Figure 19 lies closer to the head part 2f, and the
material core of the second material component 8 is identical to that of Figure 12, then
comparing to Figure 12 it can be said that with the body according to Figure 19 more material
has been brought into the tool cavity in the first injection moulding procedure.
         Furthermore, the location of the break-out of second material component 8 from the first
material component 7 can be changed by the cooling time or the time between the injection of
the first material component 7 and the second material component 8. If an identical grip body is
used and with regard to the first material component 7 the same quantity is injected, then the
break-out location lies closer to the head part with a shorter cooling time than with a longer

                                                 32
cooling time. This is due to the fact that with a shorter cooling time, the second material
component substitutes much material in the grip part and less of the second material component
flows into the free parts of the tool cavity, since the first material component has already been
displaced to there. With a longer cooling time, the soul 7' which is only flowable to a small
amount is in the grip part, which entails the second material component 8 substituting little
material in the grip and mainly filling the free tool cavity, since generally little material of the
first material component 7 continues to be displaced. What these considerations also show is the
fact that the first design variant merges into the second design variant in a flowing manner, and
everything depends essentially on the cooling time. Generally, it is the case that the complete
volume is always the same, which means that as a whole, the first and the second material
component 7, 8 together are always brought into the tool cavity with the same amount of
material. In the present case, even the jacket shares are equally large. What changes in each case
is the material distribution in the grip body.
         With the injection moulding process of a grip body according to the first design variant,
the cooling time after the introduction of the first material component 7 before introducing the
second material component 8 is between 8 and 20 seconds. With the second design variant, the
cooling time is between 20 and 35 seconds.
         The two material components 7, 8 according to this embodiment can be of a hard
component of the type described above. One can also envisage the second material component 8
being of a hard component and the first material component 7 being of a thermoplastic elastomer
of the type described above, or vice versa. The first material component 7 can be transparent and
the second material component 8 can be coloured or opaque, or vice versa, in order to achieve an
optical effect. An interesting optical effect is achieved by way of this. The first material
component 7 can be a soft component, for example a TPE, in order to achieve a soft surface in
the grip region, and the second material component 8 can be a hard component. Thereby, the
hard component forms an element which provides the grip with stability and finally also at least
partly forms the neck part 3b and the head part 2b and accordingly ensures the functionality.
         The second material component 8 which lies within the first material component is
represented in a hatched manner in Figure 19. The head part 2f and at least partly also the neck
part 3f consist of the second material component 8. However, at this position this lies on the
surface of the grip body 1g and is therefore not represented in a dashed manner.
         Figures 20 and 21 show a further embodiment type of grip bodies Ig according to the
first design variant. The grip body Ig likewise comprises a head part 2g, a neck part 3g as well as
a grip part 4g. The injection point 10 is likewise arranged in the grip part 4g. The present
embodiment type is likewise characterised by a through-opening 11 arranged to the neck part 3g,

                                                   33
in the front grip part 4g. The through-opening 11 extends from the front side to the rear side and
is encompassed by two lateral part-arms 6g. The grip body ig comprises bristle receiving holes
5g for receiving bristles. The bristle receiving holes 5g in the present form are however not a
necessary feature of the invention.
         The manufacture of the grip body 1g is basically effected in an analogous manner as the
first design variant according to the figures 1 to 4, only that the tool cavity now yet comprises an
insert core which defines the through-opening 11 of the grip body 1g to be produced and around
which the material components 7, 8 flow amid the division into two part arms 6g and the
subsequent reunification in the material flow direction.
         The first material component 7 in contrast to the very similar embodiments according to
the Figures 12 to 14 and 19, in the grip part 4g as well as in the part-arms 6g forms a jacket body
which encloses a material core of the second material component 8 which departing from the
grip part 4g in the direction of the head part 2g likewise divides into two part-arms which are led
around the through-opening 11 and then do not reunify. The first material component 7 with this
design forms a protective layer around the second material component 8 which does not permit
the second material component 8 to reunify again after the through-opening 11. This also means
that the second material component 8 does not break through the first material component.
         The second material component 8 thus here too takes the place of the displaced soul 7' in
the grip part 4g, and there however is still surrounded by a jacket body of the first material
component 7. As mentioned, yet again a limited quantity of the first material component 7 can be
injected via the common injection point 10 in a third injection moulding step, so that the second
material component 8 is surrounded by the first material component 7 also in the region of the
injection point 10.
         In the embodiment according to Figure 20, the two part-lines of the second material
component 8 do not reunify subsequently to the through-opening 11 in the direction of the head
part 2g. In contrast, these run parallel at a distance next to one another into the neck part 3g. The
two part lines run out in a tongue-like manner in the neck part 3g, without the second material
component 8 in each case breaking out of the encasing by the first material component 7.
Accordingly, the head part 2g is completely formed from the first material component 7. This
embodiment is characterised by the particularly aesthetic effect of the part-lines which run in
parallel. The two part-lines have a distance of 0.3 mm to 3mm, preferably of 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm.
They run out in an asymmetrical manner, which means to say that they are not equally long and
thus their ends have a distance to one another of maximally 10 mm preferably 5 mm in the
longitudinal axis direction.

                                                 34
        In the shown figures, the through-opening is designed symmetrically with respect to the
material flow direction. It is also possible to design the through-opening in an asymmetric
manner. This leads to the fact that the distances between the part-lines as well as the distances
between the ends of the part-lines can be infinitely varied. Of course, it is also possible to lead
the second material component 8 up to into the head part 2g.
        Figure 21 shows a lateral cross section through the grip body Ig according to Figure 20.
The mould partition line 7 is likewise to be seen. It can be recognised that the second material
component 8 is arranged on both sides of the mould partition line 12, thus runs past this.
        The region of the through-opening 11, in the embodiment types shown in Figure 19, 20
and 21 can be peripherally injected (not shown) with a third material component 9, in a manner
analogous to the embodiment according to Figure 13 and 14, for the purpose of forming a thumb
rest 13. The peripheral injection can be a covering of the part-arms 6f, 6g towards the through
opening 11 or a covering around the grip body 11, lg in the region of the through-opening.
        The two material components 7, 8 according to this embodiment can be of a hard
component of the type mentioned above. One can also envisage the second material component
8 being of a hard component and the first material component 7 of a thermoplastic elastomer of
the type described above, or vice versa. The first material component 7 can be transparent and
the second material component 8 can be coloured or opaque, or vice versa, in order to achieve an
optical effect. An interesting optical effect is achieved by way of this. The first material
component 7 can be a soft component, for example a TPE, in order to achieve a soft surface in
the grip region, and the second material component 8 can be a hard component. Thereby, the
hard component forms an element which gives the grip stability and finally also at least partly
forms the neck part 3b and the head part 2b and accordingly ensures the functionality. The
second material component 8 which lies within the first material component 7 is represented in a
hatched manner in Figure 20 and 21. The head part 2g consists exclusively of the first material
component 7. The neck part 3g consists at least partly of the first material component 7.
        Figure 22 shows a cross section through the neck part 3g of the grip body Ig according to
the Figure 20 along the line E-E. The cross-sectional view shows two part-lines of the second
material component 8 which are completely encased by the first material component 7 and are
moreover distanced to one another by way of a web of the first material component 7. The
different hatchings indicate the different material components which are represented in section.
        Figure 23 shows a cross section through the grip body Ig according to Figure 19 or 20
along the line F-F in the region of the thumb rest 13. The two part arms 6g comprise a core of the
second material component 8 which is completely encased by the first material component 7.

                                                  35
The material components of the part-arms which are represented in section are represented in a
hatched manner. The through-opening is not represented in a dashed manner.
        Figure 24 shows a cross section through the grip part 4g of the grip body 1 g according to
Figure 20, along the line G-G. The grip part 4g on its rear side comprises an indentation. The
second material component 8 which is completely encased by the first material component 7
thereby comprises two kidney-like part-cores which are connected to one another via a
connection web. The Figure 24 shows how the cooling of the first material component functions.
The body cools from the outer surface to the inside. The cooling follows the outer geometry.
With a uniform cooling, as is represented, a no longer flowable jacket body 7" or in the end
product a jacket body of the first material component 7 of a regular wall thickness is present all
around. The second material component 8 is accordingly arranged in the inside of the body. In
the present cross section, if the cooling time of the first material component is selected larger
than has been selected for the shown grip body, it is possible for the no longer flowable jacket
body 7" to unify in the middle region. Thereby, once would succeed in two part-lines consisting
of the second material component 8 being formed, which are separated by a no longer flowable
jacket body 7".
        Figures 25 to 28 show cross-sectional views of a hot-runner nozzle 23 according to the
invention, for manufacturing an injection moulded part by way of a co-injection method, with
which at least two material components are injected one after the other into a tool cavity 21 by
way of a common injection point. The hot-runner nozzle 23 comprises a channel (runner) with a
channel wall 33 which runs out into a cylinder-shaped outlet opening 28. The outlet opening 28
runs out into the tool cavity 21 and preferably has a circular cross section. The channels of the
hot-runner nozzle 23 are heated, preferably exclusively via the channel wall 33 from the outside.
         The hot-runner nozzle 23 is preferably positioned with respect to the tool cavity 21 such
that the closure direction of the needles V lies at an angle of 85' to 900 to the longitudinal axis of
the tool cavity K.
         The closure needles and material feed channels are preferably designed in a rotationally
symmetrical manner (not the injection moulding tools per se). In the present case this means that
the corresponding parts or volumes in the Figures 25 to 28, on account of the sectioned
representation are recognisable at the left and right of the second closure needle 25.
        A first closure needle 24 which together with the channel wall 33 forms an outer material
feed channel 26 is introduced axially into the channel (runner). The outer material feed channel
26 is annular-shaped in the region of the closure needle 24. The first closure needle 24 is
designed as a hollow needle and comprises an axial through-opening 29 which forms an inner

                                                   36
material feed channel 27. The first closure needle 24 has a cylinder-shaped end section 30. This
is preferably designed in a circularly cylindrical manner. The end section 30 together with the
through-opening 29 forms a hollow cylinder section, wherein the through- opening 29 in the
mentioned end section 30 likewise preferably has a circular cross section. The cylinder-shaped
end section 30 of the first closure needle 24 engages into the cylinder-shaped outlet opening 28
with a positive fit, for the closure of the outer material feed channel 26.
        A second closure needle 25 which is designed in a cylinder-shaped manner engages into
the through opening 29. The inner material feed channel 27 is likewise designed in an annular
manner at the height of the second closure needle 25. The second closure needle 25 comprises at
least one cylinder-shaped, in particular circular cylinder-shaped end section 31. However it is
particularly preferably completely designed in a cylinder-shaped or circular cylinder-shaped
manner. The second closure needle 25 with its end section 31 positively engages into the hollow
cylinder-shaped end section 30 of the first closure needle 24, for closing the inner material feed
channel 27 in the region of the through-opening 29.
        Figures 25 to 28 now show different positions of the closure needles 24, 25 as to how
they are situated during the manufacturing process.
        According to Figure 25, the first closure needle 24 engages into the cylinder-shaped
outlet opening 28 and thus closes the outer material feed channel 26. Simultaneously, the second
closure needle 24 engages into the hollow-cylinder-shaped end section 30 of the first closure
needle 24 and thus closes the inner material feed channel 27. The hot-runner nozzle 23 is thus
completely closed, wherein the first and the second closure needle 24, 25 with the face-sides lie
flush with the cavity wall in the region of the outlet opening. As to when the hot-runner nozzle
23 is in the position shown in Figure 25 can be deduced from the process course which is
specified later.
        According to Figure 26, the first closure needle 24 is retracted out of the cylinder-shaped
outlet opening 28 and releases the outer material feed channel 26. Simultaneously, the second
closure needle 25 engages into the hollow-cylinder-shaped end section of the first closure needle
24 and thus closes the inner material feed channel 27. The hot-runner nozzle 23 is thus only open
for the material feed from the outer material feed channel 26. The fed material flows in the
annular channel in a flow direction Ra along the first closure needle 24 towards the outlet
opening 28 and is injected via the outlet opening 28 in the flow direction Rs into the tool cavity
21. The flow direction Rs here is parallel to the closure direction V of the closure needles 24, 25
and parallel to the longitudinal axis of the closure needles. For example, the first material
component can be injected into the tool cavity 21 at the beginning of the injection moulding

                                                  37
cycle with this nozzle setting. As to when the hot-runner nozzle 23 is in the position shown in
Figure 26 can be deduced from the process course specified later.
        According to Figure 27, the first closure needle 24 engages into the cylinder-shaped
outlet opening 28 and thus closes the outer material feed channel 26. The second closure needle
25 however is retracted out of the hollow-cylinder-shaped end section 29 of the first closure
needle 24 and thus releases the inner material feed channel 27. The hot-runner nozzle 23 is thus
only open for the material feed from the inner material feed channel 27. The fed material flows
in the inner channel in a flow direction Ri along the second closure needle 25 towards the outlet
opening 28 and is injected via the outlet opening 28 in the flow direction Rs into the tool cavity
21. For example, the second material component can be injected into the tool cavity 21 in a
subsequent step of the injection moulding cycle with this nozzle setting. As to when the hot
runner nozzle 23 is in the position shown in Figure 27 can be deduced from the process course
specified later.
        Preferably, the material component with the higher melting point is fed via the outer
material feed channel 26, since this is directly heatable via the channel wall 33. The material
component with the lower melting point is preferably fed via the inner material feed channel 27
since the heating is indirect and also entails certain losses. If for example a PCT-A is applied at a
first component 7 and a PP as a second component 8, in the grip body, it is then optimal if the
PCT-A with the higher melting point is fed via the outer material feed channel 26, and the PP
with the lower melting point via the inner material feed channel 27.
         The settings of the temperatures are important. It can be the case that not every infinite
material combination can be processed. The temperature in the inner material feed channel 27
must likewise be controlled externally since one heats only from the outside. If the temperature
settings cannot be adhered to, then the plastic material can decompose.
        It is also possible to process the material with the greater melting point in the inner
material feed channel 27 if the temperature conditions can be set accordingly and the respective
material components permit this.
        Preferably, the first material component which corresponds to the firstly injected material
component has a higher melting point than the second material component. It ensures the
complete flowability of the second material component, even if the first material component in
the tool cavity 21 has already cooled somewhat and is solidified as a jacket body.
         The process course with regard to the positions of the hot-runner nozzle 23 which are
shown in the Figures 25 to 27, given a closed tool cavity, is designed as follows:

                                                   38
1.       hot-runner nozzle 23 is completely closed (see Figure 25)
2.       outer material feed channel 26 is opened (see Figure 26)
3.       hot-runner nozzle 23 is completely closed (see Figure 25)
4.       inner material feed channel 27 is opened (see Figure 27)
5.       hot-runner nozzle 23 is completely closed (see Figure 25).
         Thereby, it is also possible for the inner material feed channel 27 to be opened firstly and
for this material to be fed and the material of the outer material feed channel 26 only being fed
subsequently to this, depending on the configuration of the product with regard to the material
components. This means that the steps 2 and 4 can be exchanged.
         On injection moulding the first material component 7, the material feed channel is
opened, the first material component 7 injected into the cavity, and the material feed channel is
subsequently closed again. No holding pressure is required since the tool cavity 21 is not
completely filled with the first material component 7. A holding pressure is applied on injection
moulding the second material component 8 which completely fills the tool cavity 21. For the hot
runner nozzle, this means that it remains open, so that the holding pressure which is built up by
the injection assembly onto the material component, acts on the material component in the tool
cavity 21. The hot-runner nozzle 23 is closed again when the holding pressure is no longer
required on account of the process course.
         The step 3 corresponds to the cooling time which the first material component 7 requires,
so that a no longer flowable jacket body 7" can form. Moreover, the step 5 also corresponds to
the cooling time, but then such that the body at the end of the cooling time has enough stability
so that this can be taken out of the tool cavity.
         An important factor is the respective injection pressure of the material components. The
injection pressure for the first material component 7 is the same as with the manufacture of a
conventional grip body, in particular for a toothbrush. As described, no holding pressure is built
up after the material feed. The injection of the second material component 8 with regard to
pressure is designed equally as with the standard injection moulding processes of grip bodies, in
particular toothbrushes. The holding pressure is then applied with the second material component
8.
         The size of the injection pressure cannot be generally defined, since it depends on
different factors. These factors are for example: material characteristics, nozzle geometry or the
size of the inlet cross section (outlet opening of the hot-runner nozzle, through-opening of the

                                                   39
hot-runner nozzle). The injection pressure increases if the inlet cross section becomes smaller for
example.
        According to Figure 28, the first closure needle 24 is retracted out of the cylinder-shaped
outlet opening 28 and releases the outer material feed channel 26. The second closure needle 25
is likewise retracted from the hollow-cylinder-shaped end section 30 of the first closure needle
24 and releases the inner material feed channel 27. The hot-runner nozzle 23 is thus open for the
material feed from the inner as well as form the outer material feed channel 26, 27. The first and
the second material components can be simultaneously injected into the tool cavity with this
nozzle setting. Figure 28 merely represents one technical possibility of a nozzle setting. This
nozzle setting with regard to the present invention has a subordinated significance, since the first
and second material component are preferably injected in a strictly sequential and not
simultaneously or overlapping manner.
        The cylinder-shaped sealing surfaces 34 for the first closure needle 24 and the second
closure needle 25 lie parallel to the closure direction V. Since the closure direction V now lies
parallel to the longitudinal axis of the closure needles 24, 25, the thermal expansion of the
closure needles 24, 25 practically has no influence on the quality of the sealing of the closure.
The closure needles 24, 25 for example can have a length of about 100 mm, whereas their
diameter can be e.g. maximally 2.5 mm. If now the injection moulding tool is operated at
different temperatures depending on the applied plastic, then the length expansion of the closure
needle which can be significant in such a case, may not have any influence on the sealing. This is
ensured by the present hot-runner nozzle 23 since the length expansion of the closure needles 24,
25 has no influence on the formation of the sealing surfaces 34. The thermal expansion of the
closure needles 24, 25 transversely to the longitudinal axis in contrast is negligible or within a
manageable tolerance due to the relative small diameter of the closure needles 24, 25. This has
no noticeable effect on the quality of the sealing of the closure.
        The opening distances of the needles, which is to say how far the needle displaces from
the tool cavity with respect to the closure position of the closure needle, in order to permit the
material component to flow in, depends on different factors. These factors can for example be
the material characteristics of the material component in the respective material feed channel or
the geometry of the nozzle. The travel therefore cannot be generally set.
        The closure needles 24 and 25 are preferably manufactured of a tempered steel.
        An important advantage of the invention is the fact that its implementation only requires
modifications to the tool plate of an existing injection moulding tool, specifically on the nozzle
side of the tool plate. Thus, in the case that the geometries and the appearance of the grip bodies

                                                  40
match, existing injection moulding tools can be converted by way of retrofitting the tool plate on
the nozzle side, to the technology according to the invention. New product designs with half the
effort can be realised in this manner.
         Figures 29a, 29b and 30a to 30c show a further embodiment type of a grip body lh. The
grip body 1h with the exception of the differences mentioned hereinafter corresponds to the
design variant of the grip body Ig according to Figures 20 and 21.
         The grip body 1h likewise comprises a head part 2h, a neck part 3h as well as a grip part
4h. The injection point 10 is likewise arranged in the grip part 4h.
         The present embodiment type differs to the design variant according to Figure 20 and 21
in that one makes do without the through-opening. A narrowing in the cross section of the grip
body 1h is made instead of this. The grip body 1h in this narrowing forms a wall region 14 which
is encompassed laterally by part-arms 6h.
         The grip body 1h comprises bristle receiving holes 5h for receiving bristles. The bristle
receiving holes 5h in the present form however are not an essential feature of the invention.
         The manufacture of the grip body 1h is effected basically in an analogous manner as the
first design variant according to the Figures 1 to 4 or 20 and 21, only here it is the case that a wall
region is formed in the cross-sectional narrowing of the grip body lh.
         The first material component 7 with this design forms a protective layer around the
second material component 8 which does not permit the second material component 8 to reunify
again after the narrowing in cross section. This also means that the second material component 8
does not break through the first material component in the direction of the head part 2h.
         Analogously to the embodiment according to Figure 20 and 21, the two part-lines of the
second material component 8 in Figure 29a and 29b also do not reunify subsequently to the
narrowing of the cross section, in the direction of the head part 2h. In contrast, these run in
parallel and at a distance to one another into the neck part 3h. In the neck part 3h, the two part
lines run out in a tongue-like manner without the second material component 8 breaking out of
the encasing through the first material component 7 in each case. Accordingly, the head part 2h
is formed completely from the first material component 7.
         The present embodiment is characterised by the particularly aesthetic effect of the part
lines which run in parallel. The two part lines have a distance of 0.3 mm to 3mm, preferably of
0.5 mm to 1.5 mm. If they run out in an asymmetrical manner, which is to say they are not

                                                 41
equally long, then their ends have a distance of maximal 10 mm preferably maximally 5mm to
one another in the longitudinal axis direction.
         The narrowing of the cross section is designed symmetrically with respect to the material
flow direction in the shown figures. It is also possible to design the narrowing of the cross
section in an asymmetrical manner. This leads to the distances between the part lines as well as
the distances between the ends of the part-likes being able to be varied infinitely. Of course, it is
also possible to lead the second material component 8 up to into the head part 2h.
        Analogously to the embodiment according to Figure 13 and 14, the region of the
narrowing of the cross section, in the embodiment type shown in Figure 29a and 29b, can be
peripherally injected (not shown) with the third material component, for the purpose of forming a
thumb rest. The peripheral injection can for example be a covering of the part-arms 6h around
the grip body 1h in the wall region 14 of the cross-sectional narrowing.
        According to the Figures 29a and 29, the second material component 8 which lies within
the first material component 7 is represented in a dashed manner. The head part 2h consists
exclusively of the first material component 7. The neck part 3h consists at least partly of the first
material component 7.
         The cross section through the neck part 3h of Figure 29a along the section line E-E
according to Figure 30a corresponds to that cross section which is shown in Figure 22. For this
reason, the description with regard to Figure 22 is referred to for further details.
         The cross section through the grip part 4h along the section line G - G according to
Figure 30c e.g. is designed as shown in Figure 24. A narrowing of the cross section in the grip
part 4h has already been described within the framework of the description of Figure 24. The
description with regard to Figure 24 is therefore referred to for further details.
        Figure 30b shows a cross section through the grip body 1h according to Figure 29a along
the section line F-F in the region of the thumb rest. One can see that the second material
component 8i does not penetrate into the wall region of the cross-sectional narrowing. In contrast
the second material component 8 flows around the narrowing of the cross section at the sides,
which means through the part-arms 6h.
         The shape of the part-strands of the second material component 8 laterally of the
narrowing of the cross section through the two-arms 6h depends on how the wall region 14 in the
cross-sectional narrowing is designed.

                                                  42
         The diameter or the distance of the surfaces in the region, in which the layers unify is
between 0.3 mm and 5mm preferably between 0.5 mm and 1.5 mm. Thereby, the wall thickness
is directly related to the method. Greater masses require more cooling time, and smaller masses
less cooling time. Such a narrowing directly influences the cycle time depending on how the
remaining body is designed. What is decisive is that the wall region 14 after the first cooling
cycled has cooled and solidified to such an extent that the second component can no longer
penetrate into this.
         The part-lines with regard to their dimensions are designed as previously described
         The design variants which are shown in this document are of course examples. The
individual fashioning and elements of these design variants can be combined with other design
variants within the scope of the invention and without departing from the scope of the invention.
The features of the figure descriptions can be combined with one another beyond the individually
shown embodiments, in particular of the embodiments have the same or similar fashion

                                               43
LIST OF REFERENCE NUMERALS
la..h grip body of a toothbrush
2a..h head part
3a..h neck part
4a..h grip part
5a..h bristle receiving holes
6c..h part arms
7     first material component
7'    flowable soul of the first material component, corresponds to the core body
7"    no longer flowable jacket body of the first material component, corresponds to the jacket
      body
8     second material component
9     third material component
10    injection point
11    through-opening
12    mould partition line
13    thumb grip
14    wall region
20    injection moulding tool
21    tool cavity
22    cavity wall
23    hot-runner channel
24    first closure needle
25    second closure needle
26    outer material feed channel
27    inner material feed channel
28    cylinder-shaped outlet opening
29    through-opening of the first closure needle
30    end section of the first closure needle
31    end section of the second closure needle
33    channel wall
34    sealing surface
V     closure direction of the needles
K     longitudinal axis of the tool cavity
M     material flow direction
Ra    flow direction

                  44
Ri flow direction
Rs flow direction

                                                    45
                                          PATENT CLAIMS
1.       A grip body (la..l g), in particular of a body care article, such as toothbrush, comprising a
grip part (4a..4g), a neck part (3a..3g) and a head part (2a..2g), wherein the grip body (la.. lg)
comprises a first and a second material component (7, 8) of a thermoplastic plastic,
characterised in that
the first and the second material component (7, 8) have a common injection point (10) which is
arranged outside a mould partition line (12) formed by the mould partition.
2        A grip body according to claim 1, characterised in that the grip body (Id, le) comprises a
third material component (9) which is preferably soft-elastic, and for example consists of a
thermoplastic elastomer.
3.       A grip body according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the grip part (4a..4g)
comprises a jacket body of the first material component (7) and a core body of the second
material component (8) which is at least part enveloped by the jacket body.
4.       A grip body according to claim 3, characterised in that the second material component (8)
preferably towards the head part (2b..2f) breaks out of the enveloping jacket body of first
material component (7) and comes to the surface, and preferably the head part (2b..2f) consists
completely of the second material component (8).
5.       A grip body according to claim 3, characterised in that the grip body (la, Ig) preferably
with the exception of the injection point (10) comprises a core body of the second material
component (8) which is completely surrounded by the jacket body of the first material
component (8).
6.       A grip body according to one of the claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the common
injection point (10) of the first and second material component (7, 8) is arranged on the front side
or rear side of the grip body (la,.. lg), preferably in the grip part (4a..4g) and preferably on the
rear side.
7.       A grip body according to one of the claims 1 to 6, characterised in that the grip body
(1c..1g) in the grip part (4c..4d) and/or neck part (3c..3g) comprises a through-opening (11), by
way of which the grip body (Ic..lg) is divided into two part-arms (6c..6g), and each part-arm
(6c..6g) comprises a jacket body of the first material component (7) and a core body of the
second material component (8) which is enveloped by the jacket body, wherein the two line-like
core bodies, at the coming-together of the part-arms (6c..6g) towards the head part (2c..2g):

                                                    46
a.       reunify, and run further towards the head part (2c..2g) as a common, line-like core body
         which is enveloped by the jacket body, or
b.       run further in a manner parallel to one another towards the head part (2c..2g) as separate
         part-lines which are enveloped by the jacket body,
and the line-like core body or bodies preferably run out in the neck part (3a..3g) or head part
(2a..2g) in a tongue-like manner.
8.       A grip body according to one of the claims 1 to 7, characterised in that the first and/or the
second material component (7, 8) is a hard component, preferably of a polypropylene (PP)
polycyclohexylene dimethylene          terephthalate (PCT-A),      polyethylene (PE) or a styrene
polymerisate, such as styrene acrylonitrile (SAN).
9.       A grip body according to one of the claims 1 to 8, characterised in that the first and/or
second material component (7, 8) is a soft component, preferably of a thermoplastic elastomer.
10.      A method for manufacturing an elongate grip body (la.. lg), in particular of a body care
article, such as toothbrush, of at least two material components (7, 8) of a thermoplastic plastic,
comprising the injection moulding of the material components (7, 8) in an injection moulding
tool (20) by way of a hot-runner method,
characterised in that
at least two plastic components (7, 8) are injected via a common injection point into a common
tool cavity (21) of the injection moulding tool (20) by way of the following steps:
-        injection moulding a first material component (7) into the tool cavity (21) and a partial
         filling of the tool cavity (21) with the first material component (7) through a hot-runner
         nozzle;
-        cooling the injected first material component (7) in the tool cavity (21), wherein at least
         one flowable soul is retained in the first material component (7);
-        injection moulding a second material component (8) into the tool cavity (21) of the
         injection moulding tool (20) through the same hot-runner nozzle (23) and further,
         preferably complete filling of the tool cavity (21) with the second material component
         (8);
wherein the flowable soul of the first material component (7) previously injected into the tool
cavity (21) is displaced in the material flow direction (M) during the injection moulding of the
second material component (8), and the first material component (7) which preferably bears on
the cavity wall (33) and is at least partly solidified at least partly surrounds the flowing-in second
material component (8).

                                                   47
11.      A method according to claim 10, characterised in that the tool cavity (21) is designed as a
longitudinal cavity with a longitudinal axis (K), and the injection point (10) lies outside a mould
partition line (12) of the tool cavity (21), and the injection point (10) is preferably designed such
that the first and the second material components are injected transversely to the longitudinal axis
(K) of the tool cavity (21), preferably at an angle of between 850 and 900 between the
longitudinal axis (K) and the closure direction of the needles (V), into the tool cavity (21).
12.      A method according to claim 10 or 11, characterised in that the ratio of the injected
volume of the first material component (7) to the total volume of the tool cavity (21) and the ratio
of the flowable soul (7') of the first material component (7) to the unfilled volume of the tool
cavity (21) is selected such that the subsequently injected second material component (8) breaks
out of the first material component (7) surrounding this, in the material flow direction (M), and in
this manner an end section of the tool cavity (21) which is at the front in the material flow
direction (M) is completely and exclusively filled with the second material component (8).
13.      A method according to claim 10 or 11, characterised in that the ratio of the injected
volume of the first material component (7) to the total volume of the tool cavity (21) and the ratio
of the flowable soul (7') of the first material component (7) to the unfilled volume of the tool
cavity (21) is selected such that the second material component (8) displaces the flowable soul
(7') of the first material component (7) in the material flow direction (M), wherein the displaced
soul (7') in the material flow direction (M) fills a front end section of the tool cavity (21), so that
the second material component (8) is completely surrounded by the first material component (7),
preferably except for at the injection point (10).
14.      A method according to one of the claims 10 to 13, characterised in that
a.       the total volume of the tool cavity (21) minus the total volume of the injected first
         material component (7) is smaller than the flowable soul (7') displaced by the second
         material component (8) or
b.       the total volume of the tool cavity (21) minus the total volume of the injected first
         material component (7) is larger than or equal to the flowable soul (7') displaced by the
         second material component (8).
15.      A method according to one of the claims 10 to 14, characterised in that the tool cavity
(21) in the material flow direction (M) is temporarily divided into at least two part-channels (6f,
6g) which reunify again, and on injecting the second material component (8), the flowable soul
(7') of the first material component (7) is displaced in the material flow direction (M) into a front
end section of the tool cavity (21) and the second material component (8) amid the formation of
two part-lines follows the displaced soul (7') through the part-channels (6f, 6g), wherein

                                                    48
a.       the two part-lines subsequently to the unification of the two part-channels (6f, 6g)
         reunify, and run further as a common, line-like core body enveloped by the jacket body,
         towards the head part (2c..2g), or
b.       the two part-lines subsequently to the unification of the two part-channels (6f, 6g) run
         separately and parallel to one another amid the formation of two end-sections running out
         in a tongue-like manner.
16.      A method according to one of the claims 10 to 15, characterised in that the first material
component (7) is injected again subsequently to the injection of the second material component
(8), so that the surface at the injection point (10) is formed from the first material component (7).
17.      An injection moulding tool (20) for carrying out a method according to one of the claims
10 to 16, wherein the injection moulding tool (20) is a hot-runner tool which comprises a hot
runner nozzle (23) which runs out into a tool cavity (21) and which is designed as a needle
closure nozzle, wherein the hot-runner nozzle (23) comprises a first closure needle designed as a
hollow needle (24) as well as a second closure needle (25) which can be inserted into the hollow
needle (24), and the first closure needle (24) in the hot-runner nozzle (23) with an outwardly
lying channel wall (33) forms an outer material feed channel (26) and with its axial through
opening (29) forms an inner material feed channel (27),
characterised in that
the hot-runner nozzle (23) comprises a cylinder-shaped outlet opening (28), and the first closure
needle (24) comprises a cylinder-shaped end section (30) which is designed such that this can be
introduced into the cylinder-shaped outlet opening (28) with a positive fit, in order thus, amid the
formation of a cylindrical sealing surface running parallel to the closure direction (V), to seal the
outer material feed channel (26) to the tool cavity (21).
18.      An injection moulding tool according to claim 17, characterised in that the second
closure needle (25) comprises a cylinder-shaped end section (31), and the through-opening (29)
of the first closure needle (24) in its end section (30) is cylinder-shaped, so that the second
closure needle (25) can be inserted into the through-opening (29) at the cylinder-shaped end
section (30) of the first closure needle (24) with a positive fit, in order thus, amid the formation
of a cylindrical sealing surface running parallel to the closure direction (V), to seal the inner
material feed channel (27) to a tool cavity (21).

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
