ABSTRACT
Described herein is meat processing device designed to automate the process of separating layers of a
meat cut such as removal of the fat cap from a rack barrel. An arm that both perforates and clamps a fat
layer is also described along with methods of using the device described herein. In one aspect, an arm is
described configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat and fat layer on a meat cut, the
arm comprising: an elongated shape terminating at one end with opposing jaws forming a head, the
opposing jaws gripping and perforating the transition between a meat and fat layer on a meat cut; and
wherein the opposing jaws are configured to be angled relative to the arm longitudinal length when in a
closed position and a non-angled position when the jaws are open so that jaw closure about a meat cut
or part thereof imposes a rotation force on the meat cut or part thereof being gripped thereby causing
localised perforation/separation. Also described in further aspects are a meat processing device
comprising the arm noted above and a method of removing a fat layer from a meat cut, the method sing
the arm or device noted above.
                                                     16

rir
         LLL
    1/12

                    MEAT PROCESSING DEVICE, AN ARM AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application derives priority from New Zealand patent application number 726901 incorporated
 5 herein by reference.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   Described herein is a meat processing device. More specifically, a device is described to separate meat
   cut layers. An arm used as part of the device is also described along with methods of using the device
10 and arm.
   BACKGROUND ART
   Meat cuts processed may have multiple layers, typically a fat layer and meat layer, that require
   separation as part of final cut manufacture. One key meat cut during processing of an animal is termed a
15 rack barrel. The rack barrel comprises the mid torso portion of the animal incorporating a part of the
   animal spine or back bone and ribs extending in a curved manner from the back bone. The rack barrel in
   an unprocessed form comprises bone matter being the spine and rib bones, meat on these bones, and a
   fat layer (also termed a fat cap) on the outer surface. This meat cut is of relatively high value once
   processed, typically into rack form, often to a so-called French or Frenched cut with the rib endings
20 exposed.
   In the art, the rack barrel is processed manually with the fat cap being cut away from the meat and the
   ribs being cut to a uniform length, typically by a process worker manually passing the meat through a
   saw or blade. Existing methods take time, labour, are repetitive and, because of operator exposure to
   knives and cutting machinery, may be potentially hazardous and/or present a potential contamination
25 risk.
   Automation of meat processing is becoming common place in many meat processing facilities or
   operations as a means to reduce injuries, increase speed, reduce operating costs and produce a more
   consistent repeatable end product or at least to provide the public with a choice.
   Further aspects and advantages of the meat processing device, arm and methods of use thereof will
30 become apparent from the ensuing description that is given by way of example only.
   SUMMARY
   Described herein is meat processing device designed to automate the process of separating layers of a
                                                          1

   meat cut such as removal of the fat cap layer from a rack barrel. An arm that both perforates and
   clamps a fat cap is also described along with methods of using the device and arm are described herein.
   In a first aspect, there is provided an arm configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat
   and fat layer on a meat cut, the arm comprising:
 5            an elongated shape terminating at one end with opposing jaws forming a head, the opposing
   jaws gripping and perforating the transition between a meat and fat layer on a meat cut; and
              wherein the opposing jaws are configured to be angled relative to the arm longitudinal length
   when in a closed position and a non-angled position when the jaws are open so that jaw closure about a
   meat cut or part thereof imposes a rotation force on the meat cut or part thereof being gripped thereby
10 causing localised perforation/separation.
   In a second aspect there is provided a meat processing device comprising:
              at least one arm configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat layer and a fat
   layer on a meat cut, the at least one arm comprising an elongated shape terminating at one end with
   opposing jaws forming a head, the opposing jaws gripping and perforating the transition between a meat
15 and fat layer on a meat cut; and
              at least one conveying means that conveys the meat cut;
              wherein, when the conveying means moves the meat cut away from the at least one arm, an at
   least one gripped layer of the meat cut is torn from at least one further layer of the meat cut.
   In a third aspect, there is provided a method of removing a fat layer from a meat cut, the method
20 comprising the steps of:
        (a) selecting at least one meat processing device substantially as described herein;
        (b) fitting a meat cut to the meat processing device; and
        (c) actuating the meat processing device to cause the at least one conveying means to convey the
              meat cut and cause subsequent removal of at least one layer from the meat cut.
25 Advantages of the above described meat processing device, arm and method of use thereof may
   comprise one or more of:
        -     Increasing production safety by minimising operator contact with moving parts and blades
              during a fat removal operation;
        -     Contamination risk reduction by minimising contact with potential contamination risk areas
30            such as operators, their clothing and their equipment;
        -     Potential cost reduction associated with reduced staffing and faster processing;
        -     Product uniformity in terms of fat layer removal and other attributes may be higher or more
              consistent than via manual processing;
        -     The end product may achieve a higher value through greater uniformity and consistency.
                                                           2

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Further aspects of the meat processing device, arm and methods of use thereof will become apparent
   from the following description that is given by way of example only and with reference to the
 5 accompanying drawings in which:
   Figure 1   illustrates a plan view of one embodiment of the meat processing device in an assembled form
              when in an unloaded position;
   Figure 2   illustrates a side section view of the above embodiment of the meat processing device in an
              assembled form when in an unloaded position;
10 Figure 3   illustrates a front section view of the above embodiment of the meat processing device in an
              assembled form when in an unloaded position;
   Figure 4   illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of an arm in a closed grip configuration;
   Figure 5   illustrates a side view of the above embodiment of an arm in a open grip configuration;
   Figure 6   illustrates a rack barrel loaded onto the trolley ready for processing;
15 Figure 7   illustrates the trolley and rack barrel travelling along a rail and passing across disc blades;
   Figure 8   illustrates a rack barrel reaching a stop position at the end of a rail and further illustrates the
              scoring blade cutting an incision through the fat cap along the rack barrel spine section length;
   Figure 9   illustrates how the arms grip and perforate the fat cap from the meat;
   Figure 10 illustrates the trolley beginning to move back down the rail away from the stop position;
20 Figure 11 illustrates the rack barrel returning to a loading end position with the fat cap removed; and
   Figure 12 illustrates the rack barrel immediately prior to unloading with the fat cap removed.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   As noted above, described herein is meat processing device designed to automate the process of
25 separating layers of a meat cut such as removal of the fat cap from a rack barrel. An arm that both
   perforates and clamps a fat layer is also described along with methods of using the device described
   herein.
    For the purposes of this specification, the term 'about' or 'approximately' and grammatical variations
   thereof mean a quantity, level, degree, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount,
30 weight or length that varies by as much as 30, 25, 20, 15, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1% to a reference
   quantity, level, degree, value, number, frequency, percentage, dimension, size, amount, weight or
   length.
                                                           3

   The term 'substantially' or grammatical variations thereof refers to at least about 50%, for example 75%,
   85%, 95% or 98%.
   The term 'comprise' and grammatical variations thereof shall have an inclusive meaning - i.e. that it will
   be taken to mean an inclusion of not only the listed components it directly references, but also other
 5 non-specified components or elements.
   Note that reference may be made hereafter to the meat cut being a rack barrel however, as may be
   appreciated, other meat cuts may be processed using the device described.
   In a first aspect, there is provided an arm configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat
   and fat layer on a meat cut, the arm comprising:
10            an elongated shape terminating at one end with opposing jaws forming a head, the opposing
   jaws gripping and perforating the transition between a meat and fat layer on a meat cut; and
              wherein the opposing jaws are configured to be angled relative to the arm longitudinal length
   when in a closed position and a non-angled position when the jaws are open so that jaw closure about a
   meat cut or part thereof imposes a rotation force on the meat cut or part thereof being gripped thereby
15 causing localised perforation/separation.
   The arm described may be configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat and fat layer on
   a meat cut and to subsequently retain the layer in place while the remainder of the meat cut is conveyed
   away from the arm(s). The at least one arm may perform the grip, perforation and retention. As may be
   appreciated, achieving an initial start to the tearing process by at least partial perforation may be
20 important so as to encourage complete removal of the layer. Incomplete starting or gripping or cutting
   between layers may result in mixed tearing or no tearing at all e.g. from slippage of the arm grip on the
   layer. The inventors have found that integrating a rotation step integral to the gripping step assists with
   gripping and commences the tearing process to enable reliable and repeatable tearing to occur.
   In the above aspect, a first jaw may remain fixed while the opposing jaw may rotate about an axis when
25 the jaws are opened and closed.
   The rotation force applied to the meat cut may force the gripped layer to be at least partially rotated
   away from the ungripped layer.
   The jaw head may be angled downwards from the arm and the angle of the jaw head in a closed position
   relative to the longitudinal arm length may range from approximately 90 to 170 degrees. The angle may
30 be for example 90, or 100, or 110, or 120, or 130, or 140, or 150, or 160, or 170 degrees. The angle may
   range from 120 to 150 degrees.
   Gripping may be actuated by movement of a pivot assembly on the arm, the pivot assembly moved by at
   least one actuating member. The at least one actuating member may be at least one piston or other
   reciprocating member.
                                                          4

   The or a jaw may perform the functions of gripping through both partial insertion and clamping of the
   meat cut about a transition from meat to fat layer along with a grip function to hold the fat layer. The
   meat engaging end of the jaw or jaws may have a generally slender elongated shape of sufficient size to
   at least partially fit between a meat and fat layer.
 5 The jaws may comprise arcuate cross-section planar members. This rounded shape may be useful to
   help hook the jaw ending between the layers.
   The jaw endings that grip the meat cut may be blunt. Sharpened ends could be used but a blunt end has
   been found to be useful so as to start the perforation process as opposed to cutting into the meat/fat
   transition. Cutting may cause unwanted localised stresses leading to partial cutting into the meat and/or
10 fat layer causing uneven separation during tearing.
   The grip may be configured to move between open and closed positions, the closed position configured
   to have the head jaws substantially meeting and an open position with the head jaws separated and an
   opening located between the head jaws. Grip opening and closing may be generally controlled by at
   least two actuating members (e.g. pistons) moving the grip head jaws about at least one pivot joint.
15 Note that the head jaws may also overlap if desired however this may cause unwanted tearing about the
   grip point.
   The at least one arm may comprise additional movement function, for example having both up or down
   motion and/or side to side motion. This movement function may be governed by at least one actuating
   member causing movement about at least one pivot axis. The actuating member may be at least one
20 piston. Both up and down and side to side movement may not be essential. For example, movement
   may be restricted to a vertical plane and no side to side movement possible. The exact configuration
   may depend on the meat cut being designed for and for example, the regularity of the meat cut shape
   and whether arm head positioning is important or not given meat cut shape.
   The arm may grip the meat cut layer or layers and conveying means movement moves the meat cut
25 away from the at least one arm. The at least one arm jaws may be located so as to cause the meat cut
   layer or layers gripped to fold backwards from the meat cut as the meat cut is conveyed away from the
   arm.
   In a second aspect there is provided a meat processing device comprising:
             at least one arm configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat layer and a fat
30 layer on a meat cut, the at least one arm comprising an elongated shape terminating at one end with
   opposing jaws forming a head, the opposing jaws gripping and perforating the transition between a meat
   and fat layer on a meat cut; and
             at least one conveying means that conveys the meat cut;
             wherein, when the conveying means moves the meat cut away from the at least one arm, an at
35 least one gripped layer of the meat cut is torn from at least one further layer of the meat cut.
                                                        5

   The at least one conveying means may move the meat cut from a loading position to an operating
   region, the operating region being in proximity with the at least one arm. The loading position may
   typically be where an operator is able to fit a cut of meat such as a rack barrel over the conveying means.
   If the meat cut is a rack barrel, the rack barrel back bone portion runs parallel or longitudinal to the
 5 conveying means direction of motion and the rack barrel ribs extend about either side of the conveying
   means. Part or all of the operating region of the device may be located at the opposing end of the rail to
   the loading end. An enclosure may be fitted over the operating region.
   The at least one conveying means may be a trolley mounted on a rail, trolley movement being reciprocal
   movement along the rail driven by a driving mechanism.
10 The driving mechanism for the conveying means may be at least one belt linked to at least one motor.
   The meat processing device may comprise two arms.
   The at least one arm may be configured to extend from the device operating region periphery, typically
   from a support or wall about the operating region.
   In a start position, the at least one arm may run parallel to and is at least partially offset from the
15 conveying means.
   In the embodiment with two arms, each arm in a start position may be located generally above and
   generally to each side of the rail or conveying means direction of travel.
   The device may further comprise at least one scoring blade that acts to score an incision into the top of
   the meat cut prior to tearing occurring. This scoring cut or incision may be useful to reduce the force
20 needed to separate the layers.
   The incision depth may be equivalent to the depth of the at least one layer of the meat cut to be
   separated.
   The at least one scoring blade may be located above the conveying means and may interfere with the
   path of travel of the meat cut causing the at least one scoring blade to score the incision into the meat
25 cut as the meat cut is conveyed.
   The at least one scoring blade may comprise at least one disc with a sharpened edge, the disc being
   mounted from a mount assembly, the mount assembly guiding and optionally biasing the at least one
   disc to interfere with and impose a scoring force on the at least on disc and in turn to the meat cut.
   Design decisions regarding mount assembly movement and position may be predetermined by the meat
30 cut shape and size. For example, in the case of a rack barrel, the at least one scoring blade may be a disc
   or two discs aligned to roll along the spine length of the rack barrel as the rack barrel is conveyed in to
   the operating region so as to score the fat cap layer into two sides.
   In some cases, the scoring blade assembly may not be needed, the meat cut size, shape and composition
   determining whether scoring is required or not.
                                                          6

   The device may further comprise at least one cutting blade located alongside the at least one conveying
   means that is positioned to interfere with the path of movement of the meat cut as it is conveyed and,
   as the meat cut passes the at least one cutting blade, at least part of the meat cut is cut from the at least
   one conveying means.
 5 The at least one cutting blade may be at least one rotating disc blade located about the operating region
   entrance. The rotating disc blades may be located angularly about the operating region entrance. The
   disc blades are not essential but, for a rack barrel may have the added function of being used to trim the
   rib length of the rack barrel on one or both sides to an even length. Even length and a clean cut may be
   important factors in determining rack meat cut value - consistently even length and a clean cut are
10 valued and can be difficult to achieve when processing a rack barrel manually.
   In addition, the speed with which the cut can be made including on both sides of the rack barrel makes
   this aspect of the device desirable. Note that alternative meat cuts may not use or require the disc
   blades and these blades may be removed or altered in orientation or location to suit the cut of meat
   being processed.
15 The at least one arm used in the meat processing device described herein may be that substantially as
   described above in the first aspect. As noted above, a final function of the arm may be tearing of the fat
   layer from the meat. Tearing may be achieved by the arm gripping the fat layer while the trolley and
   meat cut thereon are conveyed away from the arms and back towards the loading end.
   Actuation of the at least one arm may occur when the conveying means or a part thereof reaches a stop
20 position inside the operating region.
   Subsequent tearing of the layer or layers from the meat cut caused by return conveying means
   movement may occur once the at least one arm jaws reach a closed position.
   Optionally, at least one sensor system incorporating at least one controller may also be used to help the
   device sense the presence of meat cut and the meat cut location on the device. This is not however
25 essential.
   Actuation of the conveying means post meat cut loading may, for example, be completed by the
   operator pushing a button or similar to commence conveying means movement into the operating
   region.
   In a third aspect, there is provided a method of removing a fat layer from a meat cut, the method
30 comprising the steps of:
        (a) selecting at least one meat processing device substantially as described herein;
        (b) fitting a meat cut to the meat processing device; and
        (c) actuating the meat processing device to cause the at least one conveying means to convey the
             meat cut and cause subsequent removal of at least one layer from the meat cut.
35 Using the specific example of a rack barrel, the method is described in further detail. The rack barrel
                                                         7

   comprises a spine section and rib sections, the rib sections being positioned on either side of the
   conveying means while the conveying means is in the loading region. The rack barrel further comprises a
   fat cap or fat layer on the top of the rack barrel requiring removal while the rib sections require trimming
   to an even length.
 5 The conveying means referred to as a trolley on a rail hereafter and rack barrel travel along a rail and
   pass across the disc blades. As the trolley moves forwards, the rib section endings are trimmed via the
   disc blades to an even length with the off cut rib endings dropping below the processing area and
   removed for further processing. Two opposing disc blades may be used to cut both rib sections in the
   one pass.
10 As the rack barrel travels to the stop position at the end of the rail, the scoring blade may cut an incision
   through the fat layer along the rack barrel spine section length. Scoring occurs as the trolley moves to
   the stop position, the scoring blade being positioned in the path of movement so as to cause
   interference between the scoring blade and rack barrel.
   Once the stop position is reached, at least one arm may grip and perforate the fat layer from the meat,
15 perforation occurring as the jaws close causing partial rotation of the fat cap from the meat layer.
   Gripping may occur on either side of the rack barrel assuming two arms are used, gripping occurring in
   one embodiment part way about the rib section sides.
   During this arm gripping step, the trolley may remain stationary. Post gripping, the trolley may begin to
   move back down the rail away from the stop position. As trolley return movement occurs, the fat layer
20 is pulled from the meat via a tearing action with the fat cap being pulled back from the meat layer during
   return movement.
   The rack barrel may return to a loading end position allowing an operator to remove the stripped meat
   cut from the trolley. The fat cap may be dropped by the at least one arm below the meat processing
   device for example to a slide or conveyer where the fat cap is removed for further processing.
25 Advantages of the above described meat processing device, arm and method of use thereof may
   comprise one or more of:
        -    Increasing production safety by minimising operator contact with moving parts and blades
             during a fat removal operation;
        -    Contamination risk reduction by minimising contact with potential contamination risk areas
30           such as operators, their clothing and their equipment;
        -    Potential cost reduction associated with reduced staffing and faster processing;
        -    Product uniformity in terms of fat layer removal and other attributes may be higher or more
             consistent than via manual processing;
        -    The end product may achieve a higher value through greater uniformity and consistency.
35 The embodiments described above may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and
                                                          8

   features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively, and
   any or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements or features.
   Further, where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to which
   the embodiments relate, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as of
 5 individually set forth.
   WORKING EXAMPLES
   The above described meat processing device, arm and methods of use there are now described by
   reference to a specific example.
10
                                                      EXAMPLE 1
   Figures 1, 2 and 3 illustrate plan, side section and front section views of one embodiment of the meat
   processing device in an assembled form when in an unloaded position. Referring to these Figures, the
   device generally indicated by arrow 1 comprises a conveyer belt 2 located about a rail 3. A trolley 4 is
15 driven by the conveyer belt 2 to move back and forth in a reciprocal manner along the rail 3 as indicated
   by arrow X best seen in Figure 2. The trolley 4 shown in the Figures, particularly Figure 2, shows the
   trolley 4 in a start position with the trolley 4 located at a loading end 5 of the device 1 - that is, the end
   where an operator (not shown) is able to fit a cut of meat such as a rack barrel (not shown) over the
   trolley 4 so that the rack barrel back bone portion (not shown) runs parallel or longitudinal to the trolley
20 4 direction of motion in direction X. The rack barrel (not shown) rib bones (not shown) overhang the
   trolley 4 on either side of the rail 3 when the rack barrel is properly loaded. Note that reference is made
   hereafter to the cut of meat being a rack barrel however as may be appreciated, other meat cuts may be
   processed using the device 1 described.
   The operating region of the device 1 is generally indicated by arrow 6 being at the opposing end of the
25 device 1 to the loading end 5. The operating region 6 may comprise an arm or arms 7. Two arms 7 are
   referred to hereafter although more arms 7 may be used or only one arm 7 used depending on the cut of
   meat (not shown) being processed. The arms 7 extend from the device 1 rear end 8, typically from a
   support or enclosure wall 9 about the operating region 6. In a start position, the arms 7 extend
   approximately parallel to the rail 3 so that the arm 7 endings 10 are located towards the loading end 5 of
30 the device 1 slightly off set above and to the side of the trolley 4 and rail 3.
   Above the rail 3 and in the operating region 6 is positioned a scoring blade assembly 11 best seen in
   Figure 2. The scoring blade 11 comprises a disc or discs (not shown) with sharpened edges. The disc or
   discs are mounted onto a blade arm 12, the blade arm 12 being pivotally mounted to a guide 13. The
   blade arm 12 is urged via a bias (not shown) to pivot to a stop position substantially in-line with a meat
35 cut (not shown) as it enters the operating region 6. The scoring blade assembly 11 is designed to score
                                                           9

   or insert a small cut into the top of the meat cut (not shown) as it is conveyed into and/or out of the
   operating region 6. The guide 13 may be fixed in place during operation or may slide along an overhead
   beam either automatically or manually. The decision regarding guide 13 movement and position may be
   predetermined by the meat cut shape and size. In some cases, the scoring blade assembly 11 may not
 5 be needed at all, the meat cut size, shape and composition determining whether scoring is required or
   not. The scoring blade assembly 11 may however be useful when processing a rack barrel as the scoring
   blade assembly 11 provides a cut or incision through the fat cap layer prior to removal of the fat cap.
   This cut or incision may be useful to reduce the force needed to separate the fat cap from the rack
   barrel.
10 A further optional feature of the device 1 may be cutting blades 14 located at the entrance to the
   operating region 6, shown in Figures 1-3 as rotating disc blades 14 located angularly about the operating
   region 6 entrance. The disc blades 14 are not essential but, for a rack barrel may have the function of
   being used to trim the rib length of the rack barrel on one or both sides to an even length. Even length
   and a clean cut can be important factors in determining rack meat cut value - consistently even length
15 and a clean cut are valued and can be difficult to achieve when processing a rack barrel manually. In
   addition, the speed with which the cut can be made including on both sides of the rack barrel at once
   makes this aspect of the device 1 desirable. Note that alternative meat cuts may not use or require the
   disc blades 14 and these blades 14 may be removed or altered in orientation or location to suit the cut of
   meat being processed.
20 Turning back to the arm or arms 7 and also referring to Figures 4 and 5, the arm or arms 7 perform a grip
   and perforation function. Referring to one arm 7 for ease of description, the arm 7 comprises movement
   function having both up or down motion indicated by arrow Y and grip head 50 opening and closing
   function indicated by arrow Z. In the design shown, side to side movement is not catered for but could
   be incorporated if desired, for example through altered pivot points.
25 Up and down movement of the arm 7 is generally controlled by piston 51 causing rotation of the arm 7
   about pivot points 52. Up and down movement may be required to correctly position the grip head 50 in
   alignment with the meat cut. Using the example of a rack barrel, correct alignment may be grip head 50
   placement in alignment with the transition from meat to fat cap on the rack barrel exterior.
   Grip jaw 50A opening and closing is generally controlled by pistons 53 and 54 about pivot joints 55, 56,
30 57, 58 and 59. Figures 1-4 show the grip jaws 50A in a closed position while Figure 5 shows the grip jaws
   50A in an open position. The grip head 50 and jaws 50A have been carefully designed to perform the
   functions of gripping through both partial insertion and perforation of the meat cut about a transition
   from meat to fat layer along with a grip function to hold the fat layer. The grip 50 achieves this in the
   embodiment shown by have two opposing rounded jaws 50A that meet together when the grip head 50
35 is closed and pull apart when the grip jaws 50A are open. The jaws 50A are shaped to have two arcuate
   cross-section endings, the meat engaging end of the jaws 50A having a generally slender elongated
   shape of sufficiently small size to fit between a meat and fat layer. In the embodiments shown in the
                                                         10

   Figures, the meat engaging ends 61, 62 of the grip jaws 50A are blunt. Sharpened ends 61, 62 could be
   used but a blunt end has been found to be useful so as to start the perforation process as opposed to
   cutting into the meat/fat transition. Cutting may cause unwanted localised stresses leading to partial
   cutting into the meat and/or fat layer causing uneven separation during tearing.
 5 As noted above, a final function of the arm 7 is tearing of the fat layer from the meat. Tearing is
   achieved in the embodiment shown by the arm 7 gripping the fat layer while the trolley 4 is driven away
   from the arms 7 and back towards the loading end 5. As the trolley 4 moves, the fat layer is torn or
   pulled backwards away from the meat. One additional function of the arm 7 grip 50 may be that the grip
   jaws 50A act to at least partially rotate the fat layer once gripped from the meat cut as part of the initial
10 perforating and gripping action. This at least partial rotation action may act to urge tearing from the
   meat thereby allowing easy removal of fat layer from the meat. At least partial rotation may be achieved
   by having the grip head 50 located on an angle when in a closed position relative to the general arm 7
   orientation, this angle shown as arrow AA in Figure 4 may range from 90 to 170 degrees, in some
   embodiments being from around 110 to 130 degrees.
15 Sensor systems (not shown), may also be used to help the whole device 1 sense the presence of meat
   cut and the meat cut location.
   Actuation of the trolley 4 post meat cut loading may for example be completed by the operator pushing
   a button or similar to commence trolley 4 movement into the operating region 6.
   Cutting of the rib bone length via the disc blade or blades 14 may happen automatically as the trolley 4 is
20 moved into the operating region 6 when the rib bones are moved past the disc blades 14.
   Actuation of the scoring blade 11 may happen automatically as the meat cut is moved by the trolley 4
   towards a stop position, the meat cut passing under the scoring blade 11 as the trolley 4 moves.
   Actuation of the arms 7 may occur when the trolley 4 reaches a stop position inside the operating region
   6. Subsequent tearing of the fay layer from the meat caused by return trolley 4 movement may occur
25 once the grip 50 return to a closed position.
   The method of operation is now disclosed with reference to the meat cut being a rack barrel and use of a
   device 1 incorporating two arms 7.
   Figure 6 shows the rack barrel 100 loaded onto the trolley 4. The rack barrel 100 is part obscured
   however it comprises a spine section 101 and rib sections 102, the rib sections 102 being positioned on
30 either side of the trolley 4. The rack barrel 100 comprises a fat cap or fat layer 103 on the top of the rack
   barrel 100 requiring removal while the rib sections 102 require trimming to an even length.
   Figure 7 shows the trolley 4 and rack barrel 100 travelling along the rail 3 and passing across the disc
   blades 14. As the trolley 4 moves forwards, the rib section 102 endings are trimmed via the disc blades
   14 to an even length with the off cut dropping below the processing area and conveyed away. Two
35 opposing disc blades 14 may be used to cut both rib sections 102 on the one pass.
                                                          11

   Figure 8 shows the rack barrel 100 reaching the stop position at the end of the rail 3 and illustrates the
   scoring blade 11 cutting an incision through the fat layer 103 along the rack barrel 100 spine section 101
   length. Scoring occurs as the trolley 4 moves to the stop position, the scoring blade 11 being positioned
   in the path of movement so as to cause interference between the scoring blade 11 and rack barrel 100.
 5 Figure 9 shows how the arms 7 grip and perforate the fat layer 103 from the meat. Gripping occurs on
   either side of the rack barrel 100 part way about the rib section 102 sides. When the arm 7 grip jaws 50A
   tighten rotation of the layer partly occurs causing the fat layer 103 to be partly removed and perforated
   from the meat. During this step, the trolley 4 remains stationary.
   Figure 10 then shows the trolley 4 beginning to move back down the rail 3 away from the stop position.
10 As trolley 4 return movements occurs, the fat layer 103 is pulled from the meat via a tearing action.
   Figure 11 shows the rack barrel 100 returning to a loading end 5 position with the fat layer 103 removed.
   In the background of the image, the fat cap (halved) 103 can be seen being retained by the arms 7.
   Figure 12 shows the rack barrel 100 immediately prior to unloading with the fat layer 103 removed. In
   the background, the arms 7 have disengaged the fat layers 103, having dropped the fat layer halves 103
15 below the device 1 to a conveyer where the fat layers 103 are moved for further processing.
   Aspects of the meat processing device, arm and methods of use thereof have been described by way of
   example only and it should be appreciated that modifications and additions may be made thereto
   without departing from the scope of the claims herein.
                                                         12

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1. An arm configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat and fat layer on a meat cut, the
arm comprising:
          an elongated shape terminating at one end with opposing jaws forming a head, the opposing
jaws gripping and perforating the transition between a meat and fat layer on a meat cut; and
          wherein the opposing jaws are configured to be angled relative to the arm longitudinal length
when in a closed position and a non-angled position when the jaws are open so that jaw closure about a
meat cut or part thereof imposes a rotation force on the meat cut or part thereof being gripped thereby
causing localised perforation/separation.
2. The arm as claimed in claim 1 wherein a first jaw remains fixed while the opposing jaw rotates about
an axis when the jaws are opened and closed.
3. The arm as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the rotation force applied to the meat cut forces the
gripped layer to be at least partially rotated away from the ungripped layer.
4. The arm as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the jaw head is angled downwards from
the arm and the angle of the jaw head in a closed position relative to the longitudinal arm length ranges
from approximately 90 to 170 degrees.
6. The arm mas claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the jaws comprise arcuate cross-section
planar members.
7. The arm as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the jaw endings that grip the meat cut are
blunt.
8. The arm as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein gripping is actuated by movement of a
pivot assembly on the arm, the pivot assembly moved by at least one actuating member.
9. The arm as claimed in any one of claims the meat engaging end of the jaw heads having a generally
slender elongated shape of sufficient size to at least partially fit between a meat and fat layer.
 10. The arm as claimed in any one of the above claims wherein the grip is configured to move between
open and closed positions, the closed position configured to have the head jaws substantially meeting
and an open position with the head jaws separated and an opening located between the head jaws.
 11. A meat processing device comprising:
          at least one arm configured to grip and perforate a transition between a meat layer and a fat
layer on a meat cut, the at least one arm comprising an elongated shape terminating at one end with
opposing jaws forming a head, the opposing jaws gripping and perforating the transition between a meat
and fat layer on a meat cut; and
          at least one conveying means that conveys the meat cut;
                                                      13

          wherein, when the conveying means moves the meat cut away from the at least one arm, an at
least one gripped layer of the meat cut is torn from at least one further layer of the meat cut.
 12. The meat processing device as claimed in claim 11 wherein the at least one conveying means moves
the meat cut from a loading position to a processing position, the processing position being in proximity
with the at least one arm.
 13. The meat processing device as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12 wherein the conveying means is a
trolley mounted on a rail, trolley movement being reciprocal movement along the rail driven by a driving
mechanism.
 14. The meat processing device as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 13 wherein, in a start position, the
at least one arm runs parallel to and is at least partially offset from the conveying means.
 15. The meat processing device as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the meat cut is a rack
barrel and the rack barrel is positioned over the trolley so that the ribs rest on either side of the
conveying means.
 16. The meat processing device as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 15 wherein the device further
comprises at least one scoring blade that acts to score an incision into the top of the meat cut prior to
tearing occurring.
 17. The meat processing device as claimed in claim 16 wherein the incision depth is equivalent to the
depth of the at least one layer of the meat cut to be separated.
 18. The meat processing device as claimed in claim 16 or claim 17 wherein the at least one scoring blade
is located above the conveying means and interferes with the path of travel of the meat cut causing the
at least one scoring blade to score the incision into the meat cut as the meat cut is conveyed.
 19. The meat processing device as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18 wherein the at least one scoring
blade comprises at least one disc with a sharpened edge, the disc being mounted from a mount
assembly, the mount assembly guiding the at least one disc to interfere with and impose a scoring force
on the at least one disc in turn to the meat cut.
20. The meat processing device as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 19 wherein the device comprises at
least one cutting blade located alongside the at least one conveying means that is positioned to interfere
with the path of movement of the meat cut as it is conveyed and, as the meat cut passes the at least one
cutting blade, at least part of the meat cut is cut from the at least one conveying means.
21. The meat processing device as claimed in claim 20 wherein the at least one cutting blade is at least
one rotating disc blades located angularly about the operating region entrance.
22. The meat processing device as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 21 wherein the at least one arm is
at least one arm as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10.
23. A method of removing a fat layer from a meat cut, the method comprising the steps of:
                                                       14

(a) selecting at least one meat processing device as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 22;
(b) fitting a meat cut to the meat processing device; and
(c) actuating the meat processing device to cause the at least one conveying means to convey the
    meat cut and cause subsequent removal of at least one layer from the meat cut.
                                               15

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                 !
1 / 12   !   !                           !   !
                 !

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                  !
2 / 12   !   !                            !   !
                 !

                                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                               !
         !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !                         !   !   !
3 / 12
                                             !

                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                !
4 / 12   !   !   !   !   !                      !   !   !   !
                             !

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                  !
         !   !                            !   !
5 / 12
                 !

                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                  !
         !   !   !   !   !   !                            !   !
6 / 12
                                 !

                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                            !
7 / 12   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !                      !   !   !   !
                                         !

                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                          !
         !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !                            !   !
8 / 12
                                         !

                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                   !
         !   !   !   !   !   !                         !   !   !
9 / 12
                                 !

                                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                            !
          !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !                         !   !   !
10 / 12
                                          !

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                        !
          !   !   !   !   !   !   !                         !   !   !
11 / 12
                                      !

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           !
                                   !   !
12 / 12
          !

