                                           Abstract
          A method and a daily replacement patch for transdermaliy administering an
  oploid for analgesic effect. The patch is applied to a subject to deliver the opioid through
5 the skin. The patch may be replaced daily and over an extended period of time.

               ONCE-A-DAY REPLACEMENT TRANSIDERMAL
                      ADMINISTRATION OF FENTANYL
         Technical Field
  [0001]        The present disclosure relates to methods and delivery devices
  for the transdermal administration of drugs. For example, transdermal
  patches for the delivery of opioid drugs and methods for transdermal
  administration of opioid drugs are described
         Background
 [0002]         Oploid drugs are known and are included in various drug
 products. For example, fentanyl and analogs thereof, such as alfentanli,
 carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like, are
 powerful synthetic opioids which have demonstrated utility in both human and
 veterinary medicine. In human medicine, alfentanil, fentanyl, remifentanil and
 sufentanil have been granted regulatory approval for use as general
 anesthetics. Transdermal administration of fentanyl and analogs thereof for
 the treatment of both acute and chronic pain has been suggested in patents
 and published applications (See e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 4,466,953; 4,470,962;
4,588,580; 4,626,539; 5,006,342; 5,186,939; 5,310,659; 5,474,783;
5,656,286; 5,762,952; 5,948,433; 5,985,317; 5,968,446; 5,993,849;
 6,024,976; 6,063,399 and 6,139,866, and U.S. Application Nos. 2003002682,
20050208117, 2002119187, and 20040234584).                   Moreover, products
containing fentanyl, including a fentanyl-containing transdermal patch, have
also been marketed for analgesia in the treatment of chronic pain.
[0003]         Examples of transdermal patch configurations include monolithic
and multilayer devices. A monolithic device is relatively simple and may be
characterized by an adhesive monolith including a drug-containing reservoir
disposed on a backing. The drug-containing reservoir in such a device is
typically formed from a pharmaceutically acceptable pressure sensitive
adhesive. In some cases, the drug-containing reservoir can be formed from a
non-adhesive material, the skin-contacting surface of which is provided with a
                                    ~1

thin layer of a suitable adhesive. The rate at which the drug is administered to
the patient from these patches can vary due to normal person-to-person and
skin site-to-skin site variations in the permeability of skin to the drug. A
multilayer, or multilaminate device, may include a matrix drug reservoir or a
liquid reservoir bound by one or more membranes. For example, in a
multilaminate patch, a drug release-rate controlling membrane may be
disposed between the drug reservoir and the skin-contacting adhesive. By
controlling the release rate of drug from the patch, a release-rate controlling
membrane serves to reduce the effects of variations in skin permeability.
[0004]         In addition to monolithic and multilayer designs, the drug
containing reservoirs of transdermal patches can have the drug either
completely dissolved in the reservoir (subsaturated patches, see e.g., U.S.
Pat. Nos., 4,704,282; 4,725,439; 4,867,982; 4,908,027; 5,004,610; 5,152,997;
5,164,190; 5,342,623; 5,344,656; 5,364,630; 5,462,745; 5,633,008 and
6,165,497) or can contain an excess of undissolved drug over the saturation
concentration (depot patches). Because transdermal patches deliver a drug
by diffusion through the skin, the delivery rate of the drug from the patch is
generally governed by Fick's law and is typically proportional to the level of
saturation of the drug in the reservoir,
[0005]         A fentanyl product that has been available widely as a
transdermal patch for analgesia is the DURAGESIC* patch. See, for
example, the labeling describing this patch and its use in, e.g., Physicians
Desk Reference, 58 th Edition, 2004, pages 1751-1755. Another fentanyl
patch with fentanyl dissolved in a pressure sensitive adhesive, DUROGESIC*
DTRANS* (or DUROGESICO SMAT) matrix patch, is available in certain
countries as a transdermal patch for analgesia, see, Summary of Product
Characteristics of "DUROGESIC* DTRANS* transdermal patch" and
DUROGESIC * DTRANS* transdermal patch "Patient Information Leaflet"
accessible by Internet to the public at http://emc.medicines.or.uk. The
DUROGESIC* DTRANS® transdermal patch is a product that administers
fentanyl for 3 days and is indicated for the treatment of chronic pain, as
opposed to post-operative or other acute pain. The DUROGESIC* DTRANS*
                                   2

    matrix fentanyl patch is intended to be sequentially removed and replaced
   with a fresh patch applied to a new skin site at the end of each 3 day period to
   provide relief from chronic pain and it is contemplated that doses may be
   increased over time and that concurrent use of other analgesics may occur to
   deal with breakthrough pain.
           Summary
   [0006]         The present disclosure provides devices and methods for
   transdermal delivery of opiold drugs. For example, in specific embodiments,
  the present disclosure provides a once-a-day patch (1-day patch) for
  transdermal delivery of an opioid drug at a targeted rate and in an amount
  sufficient to induce and maintain analgesia over a period of treatment that
  lasts about one day. In such embodiments, the opiold included in and
  delivered by the patch may be fentanyl or an analog of fentanyl, such as, for
  example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil,
  sufentanil, trefentanil and the like. In each embodiment, transdermal patches
 as described herein may be prepared for administration to human patients.
  [0007]          In addition to transdermal patches, the present disclosure
 provides methods for the administration of opioid drugs. In particular
 embodiments, the methods described herein include administration of an
 opiold selected from fentanyl or an analog of fentany, such as, for example,
 one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil,
 trefentanil and the like. In an example of such an embodiment, the method
 includes applying to a patient at least one patch designed to deliver one or
 more of fentanyl or an analog thereof, followed by removal and replacement
 of at least one of said at least one patch more often than every 3 days, for
 example, more often than every two days, or alternatively, every day.
          Brief Description of the Drawings
[0008]           The present disclosure is illustrated by way of examples in
embodiments and not limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings
in which like references indicate similar elements. The figures are not shown
                                      3

 to scale unless indicated otherwise in the content. In the graphs, vertical lines
 connected to data points indicate standard deviations.
 [0009]        FIG. I illustrates a schematic sectional view through one
 embodiment of a transdermal therapeutic system.
 [0010]        FIG. 2 illustrates a schematic sectional view through another
 embodiment of transdermal therapeutic system.
 [0011]        FIG. 3 illustrates the comparison of blood drug concentration of
 a simulation of the once-a-day application of 1-day transdermal fentanyl
 patches versus the once-every-3-days application of 3-day transdermal
fentanyl patches at steady state.
 [0012]        FIG. 4 illustrates the comparison of blood drug concentration of
a simulation of the once-a-day application of 1-day transdermal fentanyl
patches versus the actual experimental data of 3-days application of 3-day
transdermal fentanyl patches.
[0013]         FIG. 5 illustrates another comparison of blood drug
concentration of a simulation of the once-a-day application of 1-day
transderma fentanyl patches versus the actual experimental data of 3-day
application of 3-day transdermal fentanyl patches.
[0014]        FIG. 6 represents actual serum fentanyl concentrations collected
over time in using 3-day patches of different dose strengths.
[0015]        FIG. 7 illustrates the serum fentanyl concentration experimental
results of administering 3-day fentanyl transdermal patches with daily
replacement by a new patch.
[0016]        FIG. 8 shows the summary of the averaged data (over the
subjects) on the fentanyl concentration in the blood of the subjects for various
thicknesses of matrix drug layers.
[0017]        FIG. 9 shows the simulated data of fentanyl concentration by
repeated application of 1-day patch versus 3-day patches up to 336 hours.
                                    4

   [0018]         FIG. 10 shows the summary of the averaged data (over the
   subjects) on the serum fentanyl concentration in the subjects from the
                                                                              216 1
   hour to the 2 8 81h hour for the 1-day patches compared with the 3-day patches.
   [0019]         FIG. 11 shows the comparison of the steady state 3-day patch
   data of FIG. 10 versus the simulated steady state 3-day patch data scaled
   from the data of FIG. 9.
  [0020]          FIG. 12 shows the comparison of the steady state 1-day patch
  data of FIG. 10 versus the simulated steady state 1-day patch data scaled
  from the data of FIG. 9.
  [0021]         FIG. 13 shows the data on serum fentanyl concentration for
  1-day fentanyl patches of different dose strengths applied for one day.
  [0022]         FIG. 14 shows the summary of the averaged data (over
 subjects) on the fentanyl concentration in the blood of the subjects at steady
 state of application of an embodiment of the 1-day patches versus 3-day
 patches.
 [0023]          FIG. 15 shows the summary of the averaged data (over
 subjects) on the fentanyl concentration in the blood of the subjects at steady
 state of application of another embodiment of the 1-day patches versus 3-day
 patches.
 [0024]         FIG. 16 is a graph showing the serum concentration of fentanyl
and its metabolite norfentanyl in one subject with the administration of
fentanyl by 1-day patches.
         Detailed Description
[0025]          Transdermal patches for the delivery of opioid drugs are
described herein. Methods for delivery of oploid drugs are also provided, and
in specific embodiments, the methods of the present invention include
applying one or more transdermal patches as described herein to a patient.
In some embodiments, the present disclosure provides daily replacement 1
                                       5

  day (sometimes called "QD" for convenience) fentanyl patches for analgesia.
  In specific embodiments, daily replacement application of one patch, as
 described herein, on the skin of a patient may achieve a steady state plasma
  level within a therapeutically effective range. Thus, if there is only one patch
 on the skin, daily replacement of the patch will establish a steady state
 plasma profile within a therapeutically effective range. Exemplary opioids to
 be delivered by the patch described herein include fentanyl and analogs of
 fentanyl, such as, for example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil,
 lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like. An exemplary form
 of fentanyl that may be delivered in a patch as described herein is the base
 form of the fentanyl.
 [0026]         It has been found that when multi-day transdermal patches for
 delivery of fentanyl, such as the DUROGESIC* DTRANS® matrix patches,
 where applied with replacement done once per day, instead of every three
 days, the plasma concentration of fentanyl increased rapidly over the first
 three doses, resulting in drug plasma levels that were above the steady state
 level achieved when the same patch is replaced every three days. Without
 being limited to or bound by a particular theory, it is thought that this
 performance is achieved because, at replacement, although a used patch is
removed the old and the new patch are not present on the skin
simultaneously, a certain amount of the drug from the old patch is held in the
tissue of the user and requires a significant amount of time for it to be cleared
from the user, resulting in a depot effect. For instance, it has been found that
the half-life of the transdermal delivered fentanyl is quite long relative to that
for intravenously administered fentanyl due to the depot effect.
[0027]          For a patch that is replaced only every 3 or 4 days, the depot
effect upon plasma fentanyl concentration accumulation may be relatively
unnoticeable. However, it has been found that when a 3-day patch is applied
on a patient with daily replacement, a higher level of the drug in the plasma is
achieved than when the 3-day patch is applied every 3 or 4 days. Thus, it has
been found that a transdermal patch according to the present invention that is
applied on a patient with daily replacement may be relatively smaller than
                                     6

  and/or loaded with relatively less drug than a multi-day patch, such as a 3-day
  patch, while still achieving and maintaining therapeutically effective drug
  plasma levels. In particular, it has been found that, in order to reach or
  maintain a plasma concentration of an oploid drug, such as fentanyl, targeted
  by a multi-day transdermal patch, a patch system smaller than currently
 available multi-day patches, such as currently available 3-day transdermal
 fentanyl patches, may be used. In some embodiments, a 1-day patch
 according to the present description includes half, or less, the drug loading of
 prior 3-day patches, yet may be used to achieve and/or maintain targeted,
 therapeutically effective opioid drug plasma levels when applied with daily
 replacement. Even further, we have found that targeted and therapeutically
 effective opiold drug plasma levels can be achieved and/or maintained by
 daily application and replacement of a single transdermal patch as described
 herein. Of course, it Is contemplated that, even when only a single patch is
applied and replaced daily, there may be some overlap of time where more
than one patch is still applied to a patient, e.g., for a few seconds or even
minutes during replacement, without leading to a significant difference in drug
absorbed.
[0028]         The present disclosure provides transdermal patches and
methods that allow users to deliver and maintain therapeutic levels of opioid
drugs without exceeding a targeted Cma. Moreover the transdermal patches
and methods described herein provide desirable steady state delivery of
opioid drugs, with narrow fluctuations between Cm and Cmin of the opioid
delivered. The control in fluctuation of Cmax and Cmin of the drug delivered by
the patches and methods described herein works to maintain therapeutic
effect and potential side effects of the drug. In embodiments of the
transdermal patch described herein, the patch is a 1-day patch that delivers
opioid drug such that the difference between Cma and Cmin provided by the 1
day patch is smaller than that achieved by a multi-day patch designed for
delivery of the same opioid drug.
[0029]         In specific embodiments, the patches described herein exhibit
higher wt% utility of drug per day relative to multi-day patches. For example,
                                    7

 in one such embodiment the patches described hdrein are formulated and
 configured for delivery of opioid drug and provide higher wt% utility of drug per
 day as compared to multi-day patches with the same drug, e.g., fentanyl
 base, such as in the DUROGESIC® DTRANS® matrix patch. In some
 embodiments, the patches described herein may contain a lower content of
 opioid drug than presently available products or multi-day opiold patches. In
 some embodiments, the present disclosure provides 1-day patches that
 provide a percentage utilization of opioid drug after 1 day that approximates
the percent utilization of opioid drug provided by multi-day patches after
multiple days of use. In one such embodiment, a 1-day fentanyl patch is
described that provides a percentage utilization of fentanyl after one day of
use that approximates the percent utilization of fentanyl provided by 3-day
fentanyl matrix patches after three days of use. The relatively lower drug
loading and high wt% utility of drug provided by embodiments of the patches
described herein can lead to less residual drug remaining in the patch after
use, and such characteristics may reduce the risk that patches according to
such embodiments may be subject to abuse or illicit use.
[0030]         The 1-day patches described herein may also afford increased
convenience for users and lead to increased patient compliance. In some
instances, it may be desirable to remove a transdermal patch on a daily basis,
at least for a brief period of time. For example, where a multi-day opiold patch
is used, it may be desirable to remove such patch while bathing, as
submersion or exposure to large amounts of water may lead to some amount
of drug passing out of the patch. Further, human beings are creatures of
habit, and the routine of daily replacement can be more conducive for
compliance than replacement that is done every three or four days.
[00311         A transdermal patch according to the present description may
include a backing layer and a drug reservoir disposed on the backing layer. In
specific embodiments, the skin-contacting surface of the reservoir may be
adhesive, with the reservoir including a polymeric composition containing an
amount of opioid sufficient to induce and maintain analgesia in a patient for
about one day: In such embodiments the drug reservoir may or may not
                                     8

 contain undissolved opioid drug. Therefore, in some embodiments, the drug
 reservoir includes no undissolved opioid and, optionally, no undissolved
 material in the drug reservoir adhesive. Alternatively, in other embodiments, a
 drug reservoir of a transdermal patch as described herein may include
 undissolved opioid.
 [0032]         Exemplary opioids that may be delivered using patches as
 described herein include fentanyl and analogs of fentanyl, such as, for
 example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil,
 sufentanil, trefentanil and the like. In each embodiment, the patches
 described herein may be constructed and formulated for administration to
 human patients.
 [0033]        In one embodiment, the present disclosure provides a non-rate
controlled, monolithic patch without a rate-controlling membrane for
transdermal delivery of an oploid at an administration rate sufficient to induce
and maintain analgesia by daily replacement of a patch every day. In one
such embodiment, the drug may be fentanyl such as, for example, the base
form of fentanyl (the non-ionized form of fentanyl being present in the
reservoir). In other such embodiments, the drug may be an analog of
fentanyl, such as, for example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil,
lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like. In one such
embodiment, the patch includes a backing layer and a drug reservoir
disposed on the backing layer. The skin-contacting surface of the drug
reservoir may be adhesive and the reservoir may contain a polymeric
composition with or without undissolved components containing an amount of
opioid, such as, for example, fentanyl base, sufficient to induce and maintain
analgesia in a human for one day. Such an embodiment may be utilized in a
method whereby a single such patch is administered with daily replacement
and achieves a steady state plasma level within a therapeutically effective
range.
[0034]         The present disclosure provides methods of administering an
opiold drug to a subject in need thereof, In one embodiment, a method
described herein includes applying then replacing one transdermal patch on a
                                   9

 daily basis on the skin of the subject such that a steady state plasma profile
 within a therapeutic range is achieved. In one such embodiment, the patch
 utilized contains a backing layer and a drug reservoir having a polymeric
 composition containing the opiold drug. In one such embodiment, the drug
 delivered by the patch is fentanyl, which may be present in the reservoir in
 (un-ionized) base form, dissolved in a polyacrylate adhesive. In certain
 embodiments, undissolved fentanyl may be present.                    In other such
 embodiments, the drug delivered by the patch may be an analog of fentanyl,
such as, for example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil,
 remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like. Moreover, in each such
 embodiment, the subject in need of opiold administration may be a human
subject.
[0035]          In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides a
method of administering an opioid drug to a subject in need thereof by
applying two or more patches initially on day one and subsequently daily
applying a new patch to replace a day-old patch starting from day two, such
that a plasma profile of opioid drug within a therapeutic range is achieved in
one day. In such an embodiment, some of the two or more patches can be
removed on days following the first day and not replaced such that at steady
state, only one patch remains applied on the subject's skin at a given time for
analgesia. In one such embodiment, the patches utilized contain a backing
layer and a drug reservoir having a polymeric composition containing the
opioid drug. In one such embodiment, the drug delivered by the patches is
fentanyl, which may be present in the reservoir in (un-ionized) base form,
dissolved in a polyacrylate adhesive. In certain embodiments, undissolved
fentanyl may be present. In other such embodiments, the drug delivered by
the patches may be an analog of fentanyl, such as, for example, one or more
of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the
like. Moreover, in each such embodiment, the subject in need of opioid
administration may be a human subject.
[0036]         In further embodiments, the methods of the present invention
may include an additional step determining whether the patient is a narcotic
                                    10

 opioid tolerant individual or narcotic opioid naive. Such information may be
 obtained, for example, based on the patient's medical record, and may then
 be used in determining the dosing or application regimen that may be
 recommended for the individual. For example, if a patient is opiold tolerant, in
 order to provide effective pain management, it may be necessary raise the
 level of opioid drug in the blood to a targeted steady state level relatively
 quickly. In such an instance, administering two or more patches to the skin of
 the individual initially, followed by subsequently reducing the number of
 patches on the skin can quickly bring the level of oploid drug up to a
 therapeutic, steady state level. Alternatively, if a patient is determined to be
opioid naYve, such a patient may benefit from a relatively lower concentration
of opioid in the blood. An oploid naive patient may, therefore, benefit from
administration of only a single patch initially, followed by daily replacement. In
certain cases with opioid naive patients, achieving a steady state target
plasma concentration in 2 to 3 days may be determined to be desirable. The
regimen of starting initially by applying only one patch on day 1 will allow a
gradual increase to occur and yet achieve acceptable analgesia due to the
opioid-naive nature of the patient. As used herein, an "opiold naive" patient is
one that has not been exposed sufficiently to the drug to develop any
noticeable tolerance to the drug. As used herein, an "opioid tolerant" patient
is one that has been exposed to the drug to such an extent that some
noticeable tolerance to the drug has developed.
[0037]         In even further embodiments, the present disclosure provides a
kit that contains a transdermal opioid patch together with an instruction print.
The instruction print may be an insert or provided on a container or packaging
and provides a user with instructions as to use. For example, the instruction
print may describe how each patch is to be applied, the length of time each
patch is to be applied to a patient, and how often each patch is to be removed
and replaced with a new patch.
                                   11

              Definitions
[0038]        In describing the present technology, the following terms will be
employed, and are defined as indicated below. As used in this specification
and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural
references unless the text content clearly dictates otherwise.
[0039]        As used herein, the term transdermall" refers to the use of skin,
mucosa, and/or other body surfaces as a portal for the administration of drugs
by topical application of the drug thereto for passage into the systemic
circulation.
[0040]        As used herein, the term "drug" refers to any material that is
intended to produce some biological, beneficial, therapeutic, or other intended
effect, such as relief of symptoms of health disorder, but not agents (such as
permeation enhancers) the primary effect of which is to aid in the delivery of
another biologically active agent such as the therapeutic agent transdermally.
[0041]        As used herein, the term "therapeutically effective" refers to the
amount of drug or the rate of drug administration needed to produce the
desired therapeutic result.
[0042]        As used herein, the term "permeation enhancement" intends an
increase in the permeability of skin to a drug in the presence of a permeation
enhancer as compared to permeability of skin to the drug in the absence of a
permeation enhancer. A "permeation-enhancing amount" of a permeation
enhancer is an amount of the permeation enhancer sufficient to increase the
permeability of the body surface of the drug to deliver the drug at a
therapeutically effective rate.
[0043]        As used herein, "acrylate", "polyacrylate" or "acrylic polymer",
when referring to a polymer for an adhesive or proadhesive, refers to polymer
or copolymer of acrylic acid, ester(s) thereof, acrylamide, or acrylonitrile.
Unless specified otherwise, it can be a homopolymer, copolymer, or a blend
of homopolymers and/or copolymers.
                                   12

    [0044]        As used herein, the term "an analog of fentanyl" (hereafter
   referred to as "analog") refers to potent and effective analgesics such
   alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil, and the
   like. An exemplary form is the base form of fentanyl or the analog.
   [0045]        As used herein, the term "subsaturated patch" refers to a patch
   wherein the concentration of the drug is below its solubility limit. "Saturated
   patch" refers to a formulation containing dispersed drug (e.g., fentanyl base)
  solid or liquid, at a concentration above the saturation concentration in the
   reservoir.
  [0046]         As used herein, the term "single phase polymeric composition"
  refers to a composition in which the drug and all other components are
  solubilized in a polymer and are present at concentrations no greater than,
  such as less than, their saturation concentrations in the reservoir, such that
  there are no undissolved components present in the composition over a
  substantial portion of the administration period; wherein all the components in
 combination with the polymer form a single phase.
 [0047]          As used herein, the term "component" refers to an element
 within the drug reservoir, including, but not limited to, a drug as defined
 above, additives, permeation enhancers, stabilizers, dyes, diluents,
 plasticizers, tackifying agents, pigments, carriers, inert fillers, antioxidants,
 excipients, gelling agents, anti-irritants, vasoconstrictors and the like.
 [0048]         As used herein, a "rate controlling membrane" refers to a drug
 release-rate controlling membrane that is disposed between the drug
containing reservoir and the body surface, functioning to control the rate of the
drug transfer from the reservoir into the body surface. An "un-rate-controlled"
fentanyl patch means a patch without a rate control membrane.
[0049]          A "DURAGESIC* fentanyl patch" refers to a fentanyl patch as
discussed above (see also Physicians Desk Reference, 5 8 " Edition, 2004,
pages 1751-1755).             A "DUROGESIC* SMAT matrix patch" and
"DUROGESIC* DTRANS* transdermal patch" refers to a transdermal delivery
patch of fentanyl in a polyacrylate matrix made available in Germany and the
                                      13

 United Kingdom, respectively by Janssen-Cilag, see, Summary of Product
Characteristics of "DUROGESIC* DTRANS* transdermal patch" and
DUROGESIC* DTRANS * transdermal patch "Patient Information Leaflet",
which are publicly available.
[0050]         The term "AUC" means the area under the curve obtained in a
subject by plotting serum concentration of the beneficial agent in the subject
against time, as measured from the time of start of dosing, to a time "t" after
the start of dosing. AUCwor is the area under the curve extended to time of
infinity. For steady state, the AUCs is the area under the curve for a dose
period for doses administered to time infinite. The AUC can be obtained by
assaying serum samples from a patient. AUC can also be obtained for the
serum fentanyl concentration profiles constructed by simulation based on data
obtained from experiments. AUC, and AUCIsf are expected to be identical
when the drug kinetics is linear. For transdermal fentanyl product, AUC, and
AUCs have been demonstrated to be bloequivalent (Sathyan, et al
"Evaluation of the bloequivalence of two transdermal fentanyl systems
following single and repeat applications" Current Medical Research and
Opinion 21(12) 1961-1968, 2005).
[0051]         As used herein, the term "Cma" refers to the peak blood or
plasma concentration of the drug, e.g., fentanyl or the analog thereof.
[0052]        As used herein, the term "Cmin" refers to the valley blood or
plasma concentration of the drug, e.g., fentanyl or the analog thereof.
[CO5]          As used herein, the term "normalized Cm (ng/ml/(mg/h))" refers
to the Cm     (ng/ml) divided by the nominal rate of the drug administered
(mg/h). Likewise, normalized Cmn corresponds to Cmin in a similar way. The
nominal rate of drug administered is the average rate of drug administration
the product is designed to deliver during the period of use (typically the rate
stated in the product label).
[0054]        As used herein, the term "bioavailability", refers to the rate and
extent to which the active ingredient or active moiety is absorbed from a drug
product and becomes available at the site of action. The rate and extent are
                                  14

   established by the pharmacokinetic-parameters, such as, the peak blood or
   plasma concentration (Cmax) of the drug and the area under the blood or
   plasma drug concentration-time curve (AUC).
  [0055]         Two different products are considered to be "pharmacologically
  equivalent' if they produce substantially the same therapeutic effects when
  studied under similar experimental conditions, as demonstrated through
  several in vivo and in vitro methods as described in greater detail hereinafter.
  Therapeutic effects depend on various factors, such as, potency of the drug,
  the concentration of the drug in the drug reservoir, the solubility and diffusivity
  of the drug in the skin, thickness of the skin, concentration of the drug within
  the skin application site, and the like, as described in greater detail
  hereinafter. In general, pharmacological equivalence is demonstrated using
 measures such as the area under the curve (AUC).
 [0056]         The AUC, Cm. and Cmin are parameters that are related to the
 characteristics of a patch. The peak blood or plasma concentration of the
 drug normalized for the rate of drug administered (i.e. normalized Cmx as
 defined below) is a parameter that relates to the characteristics of the patch.
 [0057]         When comparing two different products with the same drug,
 bioequivalence may .be established by similar AUC and Cmax values per
 regulatory agency (such as the FDA) bioequivalence guidance.
                Transdermal Patches
 [0058]         Exemplary transdermal drug delivery systems are illustrated by
the embodiments shown in FIGS. 1 and 2. As shown in FIGS. 1 and 2, an
embodiment of the transdermal monolithic patch 1 has a backing layer 2, a
drug reservoir 3 disposed on the backing layer 2, and a peelable protective
layer 5. In the reservoir 3, which can be a layer, at least the skin-contacting
surface 4 is adhesive. The reservoir is a matrix (carrier) that is suitable for
carrying the pharmaceutical agent (or drug) for transdermal delivery. Unless it
is clear in the content to be otherwise, a "matrix" can be meant to refer to the
carrier material with or without other ingredients such as the drug. In one
embodiment, the whole matrix, with drugs and other optional ingredients, is a
                                    15

material that has the desired adhesive properties. The reservoir 3 can be
either a single phase polymeric composition or a multiple phase polymeric
composition. In a single phase polymeric composition the drug and all other
components are present at concentrations no greater than, and preferably
less than, their saturation concentrations in the reservoir 3. This produces a
composition in which all components are dissolved (i.e., in the polymeric
adhesive in the reservoir). It is to be understood that in other embodiments,
the reservoir may contain drug solid or liquid and is above the solubility
concentration. The reservoir 3 is formed using a pharmaceutically acceptable
polymeric material that can provide acceptable adhesion for application to the
body surface. In a multiple phase polymeric composition, at least one
component, for example, a therapeutic drug that is present in amount more
than the saturation concentration. In some embodiments, more than one
component, e.g., a drug and a permeation enhancer or polymeric material, is
present in amounts above the saturation concentration. In the embodiment
shown in FIG. 1, the adhesive acts as the reservoir and includes a drug.
[0059]         In the embodiment shown in FIG. 2, the skin-contacting surface
of the reservoir 4 may be formulated with a thin adhesive coating 6. The
reservoir 3 may be a single phase polymeric composition or a multiple phase
polymeric composition as described earlier. The adhesive coating can
contain the drug and permeation enhancer, as well as other ingredients.
[0060]        The backing layer 2 may be formed from any material suitable
for making transdermal delivery patches, such as a breathable or occlusive
material, including fabric or sheet, made of polyvinyl acetate, polyvinylidene
chloride, polyethylene, polyurethane, polyester, ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA),
polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, coated paper
products, aluminum sheet and the like, or a combination thereof. In some
embodiments, the backing layer includes low density polyethylene (LDPE)
materials, medium density polyethylene (MDPE) materials or high density
polyethylene (HDPE) materials, e.g., SARANEX (Dow Chemical, Midland,
Mich.). The backing layer may be a monolithic or a multilaminate layer. In
some embodiments, the backing layer is a multilaminate layer including
                                   16

   nonlinear LDPE layer/linear LDPE layer/nonlinear LDPE layer. The backing
   layer can have a thickness of about 0.012 mm (0.5 mil) to 0.125 mm (5 mil);
   such as about 0.018 mm (0.75 mil) to 0.1 mm (4 mil); or alternatively about
   0.025mm (1 mil) to 0.0875 mm (3.5 mil).
   [0061]        The adhesive reservoir 3 or the adhesive coating 6 may be
   formed from standard pressure sensitive adhesives known in the art.
  Examples of pressure sensitive adhesives include, but are not limited to,
  polyacrylates,    polysiloxanes,    polyisobutylene      (PIB),   polyisoprene,
  polybutadiene, styrenic block polymers, and the like. Examples of styrenic
  block copolymer-based adhesives include, but are not limited to, styrene
  isoprene-styrene block copolymer (SIS), styrene-butadiene-styrene copolymer
  (SBS), styrene-ethylenebutene-styrene copolymers (SEBS), and di-block
  analogs thereof.
  [0062]        Polyisobutylene adhesives are mixtures of high molecular
 weight (HMW) PIB and low molecular weight (LMW) PIB. Such mixtures are
 described in the art, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5508038. The molecular weight of
 the HMW PiB will usually be in the range of about 700,000 to 2,000,000 Da,
 whereas that of the LMW PIB will typically range between 35,000 to 60,000.
 The molecular weights referred to herein are weight average molecular
 weight. The weight ratio of HMW PIB to LMW PIB in the adhesive will
 normally range between 1:1 to 1:10. The PIB adhesive will also normally
 include a tackifier such as polybutene oil and high Tg, low molecular weight
 aliphatic resins such as the ESCOREZM resins available from Exxon
 Chemical. Polyisobutylene polymers are available commercially under the
tradename VISTANEXTM from Exxon Chemical. A preferred adhesive is PIB
adhesive composition because target delivery is enabled by lower fentanyl
content due to the lower solubility of fentanyl in PIB, thus serving to decrease
the tendency diversion and abuse. Other useful adhesive materials, and as a
matrix for holding fentanyl, its derivatives and analogs, and other drugs
include silicone adhesives such as high molecular weight polydimethyl
siloxanes or polydimethyldiphenyl siloxanes.          Formulations of silicone
                                   17

 adhesives that are useful in transdbrmal patches are described in U.S. Pat.
 Nos. 5,232,702, 4,906,169 and 4,951,622.
 [0063]         As mentioned above, the drug reservoir 3 is disposed on the
 backing layer 2 and at least the skin-contacting surface of the reservoir 3 is
 adhesive. As mentioned, the skin-contacting surface can have the structure
 of a layer of adhesive. However, the whole reservoir 3 may be substantially of
the same composition, without local variation or stratification, adhered to a
 peelable protective layer 5. The reservoir 3 may be formed from drug (or
biologically active agent) reservoir materials as known in the art. For
example, the drug reservoir may be formed from a polymeric material in which
the drug has reasonable solubility for the drug to be delivered within the
desired range, such as. a polyurethane, ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer
(EVA), acrylate, styrenic block copolymer, and the like. In some embodiments,
the reservoir 3 is formed from a pharmaceutically acceptable adhesive, such
as PIB or acrylate copolymer-based, as described in greater detail below.
With the drug and optionally, other ingredients incorporated therein, the drug
reservoir has the requisite adhesive property to retain the transdermal patch
on the skin for the period of delivery. The drug reservoir or the matrix layer
can have a thickness of about 0.2mils (0.005mm) to less than 4 mils (0.1
mm), such as about 0.5-1.5 mils (0.0125-0.0375 mm), or about 0.5-1.25 mil
(0.0125 - 0.03 mm), or alternatively about 0.8-1.2 mil (0.02-0.03mm), or
further about 0.9-1.1 mi (0.023-0.028mm). Generally, the thickness isthinner
than the commercially marketed analgesic patches, which are about 2 mils.
[0064]          The thickness of the reservoir is selected such that the desired
flux (drug delivered in pg/cm 2h) is achieved by a patch with a regimen of
replacement once a day (about every 24 hours). The flux is dependent on
diffusion and diffusion is a function of the concentration difference between
the skin and the reservoir. The rate of drug delivered (in pg/h) for each patch
is also dependent on the area of contact between the reservoir and the skin.
Thus, the dimensions (including area and thickness) of the reservoir are
selected to produce the desired flux and rate of drug delivery.
                                   18

  [0065]         Another factor that may be considered in selecting the
 dimensions of the reservoir is the reduction or deterrence of abuse. If a
 potential abuser finds that only a relatively small amount of drug is available
 from a single patch, the potential abuser may be less likely to abuse the
 patch. Therefore, a patch having a relatively smaller reservoir volume and
 drug load may work to reduce or deter abuse. In one embodiment, a patch
 that includes a reservoir formed using PIB materials is provided. Reservoirs
 formed using PIB materials may be desirable because they can provide
 comparable skin flux at reduced fentanyl content due to the lower solubility of
 fentanyl in PIB,
 (0066]         For aesthetic reasons, it may be desirable to reduce the surface
area of the patch, and therefore that of the reservoir. In some embodiments,
the surface area of the patch (and that of the reservoir) is significantly smaller
than that of a patch designed for multi-day use. For example, in one such
embodiment, the surface area of a patch described herein is significantly
smaller than the surface area of a 3-day patch designed for delivery of the
same opioid drug. The surface area of the patch, i.e., of the reservoir, will be
described below.
[0067]          In the context of abuse reduction or deterrence, drug loading
(e.g., the concentration and/or the total amount of amount of drug loaded into
a patch) may also be considered.           In specific embodiments, transdermal
patches for the administration of opioid drug (e.g., fentanyl, such as fentanyl
base, or an analog of fentanyl, such as, for example, one or more of alfentanil,
carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like) include
a drug reservoir wherein the total amount of drug loaded in the drug reservoir
may be about less than 12 mg for a 100 pg/h dose strength; such as about
less than 8 mg for a 100 pg/h dose strength; or about 7.5mg or less for a 100
pg/h dose strength. For a devices of other dose strengths (other than 100
pg/h) of the same material but difference in size, the drug content in the patch
can be adjusted proportionally to size (area), i.e., if the only difference is area
(typically called size), then the scaling is proportional to the area (i.e., size).
For example, a 50 pg/h dose strength would have half of the above-described
                                    19

drug content of that of a 100pg/h dose strength by having half the area
thereof.
[0068]          Yet another factor that may be considered in the context of
abuse reduction or deterrence is the amount of residual drug (drug remaining
in the patch after use) contained in a used patch. For example, if the wt%
utility of the drug in the patch (when the patch is removed after the period of
use) is increased, the amount of drug available for potential abuse after use of
the patch is reduced, and the potential of abusing such a device may be
reduced. In specific embodiments, a patch as described herein may include a
drug reservoir having dimensions selected to achieve an amount of residual
opioid (e.g., fentanyl, such as fentanyl base, or an analog of fentany, such as,
for example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil,
sufentanil, trefentanil and the like) of about less than 6 mg, or less, for a 100
pg/h dose strength. In one such embodiment, the amount of residual opioid is
about 5 mg, or less.
[0069]          It is to be understood that the above parameters are interrelated
and it is no simple matter to set about reducing the amount of opioid drug
loading, reducing the concentration of the opioid drug, and reducing the size
of the reservoir, while enhancing, for example, the wt% utility of the drug in
the patch and providing a patch capable of delivering opioid drug over a
desired period of time in a manner that achieves therapeutic effect in the
patient. As detailed herein, the present disclosure provides embodiments of
patches that, relative to multi-day systems, include less opioid drug and may
make the opioid drugs contained therein less available for abuse before
and/or after use.
[0070]          The adhesive reservoir 3 or the adhesive coating 6 included in a
patch as described herein, may be formed from standard pressure sensitive
adhesives known in the art. Examples of pressure sensitive adhesives
suitable for use in embodiments of the patch described herein include, but are
not limited to, polyacrylates, polysiloxanes, polyisobutylene (PIB),
polyisoprene, polybutadiene, styrenic block polymers, and the like. Examples
of styrenic block copolymer-based adhesives suitable for use in embodiments
                                     20

  of the patch described herein include, but are not limited to, styrene-isoprene
  styrene block copolymer (SIS), styrene-butadiene-styrene copolymer (SBS),
 styrene-ethylenebutene-styrene copolymers (SEBS), and di-block analogs
 thereof.
 [0071]         Exemplary adhesives include polyacrylates and PIB's, and
 particularly polyacrylates. Polyacrylates (acrylic polymers) may be comprised
 of a copolymer or terpolymer comprising at least two or more exemplary
 components selected from the group comprising acrylic acids, alkyl acrylates,
 methacrylates, copolymerizable secondary monomers or monomers with
 functional groups. Examples of monomers include, but are not limited to, vinyl
 acetate, acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, methoxyethyl acrylate, methyl acrylate,
 ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, butyl methacrylate, hexyl acrylate, hexyl
 methacrylate, 2-ethylbutyl acrylate, 2-ethylbuty methacrylate, isooctyl
acrylate, isooctyl methacrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, 2-ethyihexy
methacrylate, decyl acrylate, decyl methacrylate, dodecyl acrylate, dodecyl
methacrylate, tridecyl acrylate, tridecyl methacrylate, hydroxyethyl acrylate,
hydroxypropyl acrylate, acrylamide, dimethylacrylamide, acrylonitrile,
dimethylaminoethyl acrylate, dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate, tert
butylaminoethyl acrylate, tert-butylaminoethyl methacrylate, methoxyethyl
acrylate, methoxyethyl methacrylate, glycidal methacrylate, and the like.
Additional examples of appropriate acrylic adhesives are described in Satas,
"Acrylic Adhesives," Handbook of pressure-Sensitive Adhesive Technology,
2nd ed., pp. 396-456 (D. Satas, ed.), Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York
(1989). The acrylic adhesives are commercially available (National Starch
and Chemical Corporation, Bridgewater, NJ; Solutia, MA). Further examples
of polyacrylate-based adhesives are as follows, identified as product
numbers, manufactured by National Starch (Product Bulletin, 2000, DURO
TAK* is a trademark of National Starch adhesives): 87-4098, 87-2287, 87
4287, 87-5216, 87-2051, 87-2052, 87-2054, 87-2196, 87-9259, 87-9261, 87
2979, 87-2510, 87-2353, 87-2100, 87-2852, 87-2074, 87-2258, 87-9085, 87
9301 and 87-5298. DURO-TAK* 87-2287 and 87-4287 both are polymeric
adhesive derived from monomer compositions that are similar: 6.2 wt% 2
hydroxyethyl acrylate, about 20-40 wt% vinyl acetate, and about 55-75 wt% 2
                                   21

ethyihexyl acrylate; and these two polymeric adhesives are provided
solubilized in ethyl acetate in solids content of about 40-50 wt%. The DURO
TAK* 87-2287 adhesive is derived from a monomer composition of vinyl
acetate, 28%; 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, 67%; hydroxyethyl acrylate, 4.9%; and
glycidyl methacrylate, 0.11%, see U.S. Patent Number 5,693,335.
[0072]         Acrylic polymers suitable for use in embodiments of the patch
described herein can contain cross-linked or non-cross-linked polymers or
both. The polymers are cross-linked by known methods to provide the
desired polymers. In some embodiments, the adhesive is a polyacrylate
adhesive having a glass transition temperature (Tg) less than -10 *C, more
preferably having a T9 of about -20 *C to about -30 0C. The molecular weight
of the polyacrylate adhesive, expressed as weight average (MW), generally
ranges from 25,000 to 10,000,000, such as from 50,000 to about 3,000,000
or, alternatively from 100,000 to 1,000,000 prior to any cross-linking reactions.
Upon cross-linking the MW approaches infinity, as known to those involved in
the art of polymer chemistry.
[0073]         In specific embodiments, a PIB adhesive is provided in a PIB
adhesive composition. In such embodiments PIB compositions may be
comprised of low and high molecular weight PIB components, tackifier resins,
and plasticizing oils. Additionally, as mentioned herein, silicone adhesive can
also be used.
[0074]         As discussed above, the reservoir (e.g., reservoir 3 of Fig. 1 or
Fig. 2) of a patch as described herein may be formed using a polymeric
composition, which may or may not be free of undissolved components. In
specific embodiments, a reservoir as contemplated herein includes an amount
of opioid drug sufficient to induce and maintain analgesia in a human for
about 1 day. In one such embodiment, the drug is fentanyl. In other such
embodiments the drug is an analog of fentanyl, such as, for example, one or
more of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil
and the like. In some embodiments, the drug reservoir comprises about 0.05
to about 1.75 mg/cm 2 of the drug; such as about 0.07 to about 1.50 mg/cm 2 of
the drug; or alternatively about 0.08 to about 1.25 mg/cm 2 of the drug; or
                                    22

    about 0.14 to 0.3 mg/cm 2. In certain embodiments, the drug is in the base
   form of fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a base form and is dissolved or
   dispersed. Inother embodiments the drug is completely dissolved.
   [0075]         In particular embodiments, the material forming the reservoir of
   a patch according to the present description has a solubility for the drug of
   about 0.5 wt% to about 25 wt% of the total polymer composition; such as
   about 1 wt% to about 15 wt%; or alternatively about 2 wt% to about 12 wt% of
   the total polymer composition 4. The reservoir utilized in a patch as described
   herein, with or without the adhesive coating 6, may exhibit a thickness of
  about 0.2-10 mils (0.005- 0.25 mm), such as about 0.5-1.5 mils (0.0125
  0.0375 mm), or alternatively about 0.5-1.25 mil (0.0125 - 0.03 mm), or about
  0.8-1.2 mil (0.02-0.03 mm), such as about 0.9-1.1 mil (0.023-0.028mm). In
  some such embodiments, the drug is fentanyl, in the base form, wherein the
  material forming the reservoir 3 has a solubility for fentanyl of about 0.5 wt%
  to about 25 wt% of the total polymer composition; such as about I wt% to
  about 15 wt%; or alternatively about 2 wt% to about 12 wt%; or about 4 wt%
  to about 10 wt% of the total polymer composition. One way of determining
 solubility of the drug in the adhesive is by casting matrix drug reservoir layers
 of different drug concentrations on backing materials and storing the cast
 materials at room temperature over a period of time and determining the
 appearance of drug crystals. If crystals appear after 1 month of storage at a
 particular concentration, that concentration can be considered to be the
 solubility limit of the drug in the matrix adhesive. The presence of crystals or
 undissolved materials can be determined by microscopy or by X-ray
 diffraction analysis.
 [00761          The reservoir 3 included in a patch as described herein may
 optionally contain additional components such as, additives, permeation
 enhancers, stabilizers, dyes, diluents, plasticizers, tackifying agents,
pigments, carriers, inert fillers, antioxidants, gelling agents, anti-irritants,
vasoconstrictors and other materials as are generally known to the
transdermal art, provided that such materials are present below saturation
concentration in the reservoir.
                                     23

  [0077]         If desired, permeation enhancers can be useful for increasing
 the skin permeability of the drug or drugs to achieve delivery at therapeutically
 effective rates. Such permeation enhancers can be applied to the skin by
 pretreatment or concurrently with the drug, for example, by Incorporation in
 the reservoir. A permeation enhancer should have the ability to enhance the
 permeability of the skin for one, or more drugs or other biologically active
 agents. A useful permeation enhancer would enhance permeability of the
 desired drug or biologically active agent at a rate adequate to achieve
 therapeutic plasma concentrations from a reasonably sized patch (e.g., about
 2 to 25 cm2 , although it may be larger). Some useful permeation enhancers
 include non-ionic surfactants; one or more can be selected from the group
 including glyceryl mono-oleate, glyceryl mono-laurate, sorbitan mono-oleate,
 glyceryl tri-oleate, and isopropyl myristate. The non-ionic surfactant can be
 used in the amount of about 0.1 to 30 wt % solids to the total composition of
the reservoir layer. Examples of permeation enhancers include, but are not
 limited to, fatty acid esters of alcohols, including glycerin, such as capric,
 caprylic, dodecyl, oleic acids; fatty acid esters of isosorbide, sucrose,
 polyethylene glycol; caproyl lactylic acid; laureth-2; laureth-2 acetate; laureth
2 benzoate; laureth-3 carboxylic acid; laureth-4; laureth-5 carboxylic acid;
oleth-2; glycery pyroglutamate oleate; glyceryl oleate; N-lauroyl sarcosine; N
myristoyl sarcosine; N-octyl-2-pyrrolidone; lauraminopropionic acid;
polypropylene glycol-4-laureth-2; polypropylene glycol-4-laureth-5dimethy- I
lauramide; lauramide diethanolamine (DEA). Preferred enhancers include, but
are not limited to, lauryl pyroglutamate (LP), glyceryl monolaurate (GML),
glyceryl monocaprylate, glyceryl monocaprate, glyceryl monooleate (GMO),
oleic acid, N-lauryl sarcosine, ethyl palmitate, laureth-2, laureth-4, and
sorbitan monolaurate. Additional examples of suitable permeation enhancers
are described, for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos.: 5,785,991; 5,843,468;
5,882,676; and 6,004,578. However, in certain embodiments, no permeation
enhancer is used.
[0078]          In certain embodiments, the reservoir comprises diluent
materials capable of reducing quick tack, increasing viscosity, and/or
toughening the matrix structure, such as polybutylmethacrylate (ELVACITE,
                                   24

  manufactured by ICI Acrylics, e.g., ELVACITE 1010, ELVACITE 1020,
  ELVACITE 20), high molecular weight acrylates, i.e., acrylates having an
  average molecular weight of at least 500,000, and the like. If used, such
  larger molecular weight acrylate materials, e.g., ELVACITE, are not
 polymerized into the adhesive polymers but rather are blended in. Thus, the
 monomers for polymerization of the adhesive do not include such ELVACITE
 type large molecular weight acrylates (or macromonomer acrylates).
 [0079]         In certain embodiments, a plasticizer or tackifying agent is
 incorporated in the adhesive composition to improve the adhesive
 characteristics. Examples of suitable tackifying agents include, but are not
 limited to, aliphatic hydrocarbons; aromatic hydrocarbons; hydrogenated
 esters; polyterpenes; hydrogenated wood resins; tackifying resins such as
 ESCOREZ, aliphatic hydrocarbon resins made from cationic polymerization of
 petrochemical feedstocks or the thermal polymerization and subsequent
hydrogenation of petrochemical feedstocks, rosin ester tackifiers, and the like;
mineral oil and combinations thereof.
[0080]         If used, the tackifying agent employed should be compatible with
the polymers or blend of polymers. For example, the styrenic block
copolymers can be formulated with rubber compatible tackifying resins, end
block compatible resins such polymethyl styrene, or plasticizers such as
mineral oil. In certain embodiments, a patch as described herein may include
a reservoir formed using a polymer material, a tackifier and a mineral oil
plasticizer, wherein the polymer is about 5-50% of the total adhesive
composition, the tackifier is about 30-85% of the total adhesive composition,
and the mineral oil is about 2-40% of total adhesive composition.
[0081]         A patch as described herein may further comprise a peelable
protective layer 5. The protective layer 5 may be made of, for example, a
polymeric material that may be optionally metallized. Examples of the
polymeric materials include polyurethane, polyvinyl acetate, polyvinylidene
chloride, polypropylene,          polycarbonate,   polystyrene,   polyethylene,
polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, paper, and the like,
                                    25

  and a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the protective layer
  comprises a siliconized polyester sheet.
  [0082]          A wide variety of materials can be used for fabricating the
  various layers of the transdermal delivery patches described above. This
  disclosure therefore contemplates the use of materials, other than those
  specifically disclosed herein, including those which may hereafter become
  known to the art to be capable of performing the necessary functions.
  [0083]          In one embodiment, a patch as described herein has the
 structure shown in FIG. 1, in which the patch has only three layers, i.e., a
 backing layer, the single phase reservoir matrix layer with totally dissolved
 narcotic analgesic, and a release liner. In such an embodiment, the reservoir
 matrix may be formed using a PIB adhesive formulation or a polyacrylate
 adhesive and only one opioid agent, such as fentanyl base. In one such
 embodiment, there is no significant amount of permeation enhancers,
 tackifier, fillers, etc. In other such embodiments, where there are such
 materials, they are present only in de minimls amount and do not have
 substantive impact on drug delivery. The polyacrylate adhesive used in such
 embodiments, may consist of a single copolymeric chemical entity, such as a
 copolymer of monomers vinyl acetate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, and hydroxyethyl
acrylate, e.g., the terpolymer DURO-TAK* 87-4287 adhesive or copolymer
 DURO-TAK* 87-2287 adhesive.
[0084]            Other than using a matrix as a reservoir for holding the drug, an
alternative form of reservoir that may be used in embodiments of the patch
described herein is a pouch (e.g., form-filed seal) containing an opicid drug
compositions, with the reservoir being formed in a manner similar to that
described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,588,580. Such a reservoir can be formed by
enclosing the drug composition Ina pouch formed by an impermeable backing
layer and a rate controlling membrane that controls the delivery rate of the
drug. The device may also have a contact adhesive layer, which may be
amine resistant), for attaching the device to the skin, and a peelable protective
layer protecting the adhesive before deployment on the skin.
                                     26

  [0085]        Various drug reservoir compositions can be utilized in a pouch
  and include both aqueous and non-aqueous systems. A general formulation
  for an exemplary aqueous gel system is shown in the following Table 1, with
  the gelling agent being hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxpropyl cellulose,
  hydroxypropylmethylcellulose or other known gelling agents.
                                 TABLE I
  GEL RESERVOIR COMPOSITION (W/W %)
   Material                Broad Range               Preferred Range
   Ethanol 95%             0-47                      20-35
   Gelling Agent           1-10                      1-5
   Base form of Drug       0.1-10                    0.1-2%
   H20                     Balance                   Balance
 [0086]        The water-ethanol systems described above, possess certain
 unique characteristics when used in combination with rate-controlling
 membranes such as low density polyethylene (LDPE), ethylene-vinyl acetate
 (EVA) copolymers, (0-40% and preferably 5-18% VA) heat sealable
 polyesters, and elastomeric polyester block copolymers, such as the
 HYTRELM polymers available from DuPont and described in U.S. Pat. No.
4,127,127. Rate-controlling membranes exert substantial control on the
fentanyl release rate without significantly affecting the ethanol release rate.
This produces a dynamic situation in which the relative concentration of
ethanol in the reservoir changes with respect to the relative concentration of
water and drug as the system is used. In the case of fentanyl and its
derivatives, since they are more soluble in ethanol than water, the
thermodynamic activity of the drug in the reservoir does not decrease as
would normally be expected as the drug is delivered from the system. The
driving force causing the drug to migrate through the rate controlling
membrane is the thermodynamic activity of the drug in the solvent rather than
                                  27

 the absolute concentration. Thus, the more rapid depletion of ethanol causes
 the saturation concentration of the drug in the aqueous reservoir to decrease.
 By appropriate adjustment of ethanol and drug delivery rates from the system,
 the activity of the drug can be maintained constant or even caused to increase
 during the lifetime of the system.
 [0087]         Where included, a rate controlling membrane can be from, for
 example, about 0.5-5 mils (0.0127-0.1270 mm) thick, such as about 1-3 mils
 (0.025-0.076 mm) thick. Moreover, where a patch includes a pouch reservoir,
 the gel loading of the reservoir maybe from about 10-50 mg/cm 2, yielding a
 dry loading of from about 0.01-5 mg/cm 2. Similar to a matrix reservoir, a
 reservoir that is formed in a pouch can also include permeation enhancers,
 excipients such as tackifiers, fillers, and other drugs as described above.
        Administration of the Drug
 [0088]         On application to the skin, the drug in the drug reservoir 3 of the
transdermal patch 1 diffuses into the skin where it is absorbed into the
 bloodstream to produce a systemic analgesic effect. The onset of analgesia
depends on various factors, such as, potency of the drug, the solubility and
diffusivity of the drug in the skin, thickness of the skin, concentration of the
drug within the skin application site, concentration .of the drug in the drug
reservoir, and the like.
[0089]          In one embodiment, to maintain continuous analgesia, after one
day of deployment, the old (i.e., used) patch that has remained on the skin for
a day is removed and a fresh patch is applied to the skin, preferably to a new
location. For example, after the blood drug level has reached a therapeutic
level, the patch would be sequentially removed and replaced with a fresh
patch at the end of the administration period to provide relief from chronic
pain. Preferably the old (i.e., used) and the new patch are not attached to the
skin simultaneously, or the overlapping time period Is insignificantly small
(e.g., in minutes) for convenience of application and providing a more
predictable analgesic result. At steady state, the absorption of the drug from
the fresh patch into the new application area and the systemic circulation and
                                     28

   the absorption of the residual drug within the previous patch application site
   occur at a rate that maintains blood levels of the opioid drug within an
   acceptable range.
   [0090]        To achieve therapeutic blood level more rapidly, the health care
  giver or the patient may choose to apply one patch or multiple patches initially
  and after one day (i.e., about 24 hours) maintain a smaller number of patches
  on the skin, e.g., leaving only one patch on the skin with replacement daily
  (i.e., about every 24 hours).
  [0091]         Where fentanyl is the drug to be delivered, it has been found
  that a blood plasma concentration of fentanyl of between about 0.02 to about
  10 ng/ml is typically therapeutically effective. Within this range, a blood
  plasma concentration of between about 0.3 to about 3 ng/ml may be targeted.
 Within such ranges, as usually is the case for most drugs, less fluctuation
 over time is desirable over more fluctuation because of a more consistent
 analgesic effect over time associated with a less fluctuation in drug
 concentration in the blood,
 [0092]          With a daily replacement program using once-a-day fentanyl
 patches according to the present invention, a much smaller fluctuation of drug
 concentration in the plasma may be achieved relative to multi-day patch
 regimens, such as, for example, 3-day patch and administration regimen.
Thus, in one embodiment, a patch and method of administration as described
 herein provides a lower single dose Cm, a higher steady state Cmin, and a
smaller difference between Cmax and Cmin at steady state that is achieved by a
multi-day patch and administration regimen for delivery of the same drug. In a
specific embodiment, the present disclosure provides a patch and method of
daily replacement that achieve a lower single dose Cmax, a higher steady state
Cmin, and a smaller difference between Cmax and Cmin at steady state than
provided by a 3-day patch and three-day or twice a week application regimen.
[0093]          In particular embodiments, a patch as described herein is a 1
day patch providing a single dose profile of opioid drug (i.e., a single patch is
applied and then removed at the end of 24 hours without replacement)
                                   29

 wherein the C,,, ranges from about 0.45 to about 5.5 ng/ml, such as from
 about 0.9 to about 2.7 ng/ml, or alternatively from about 1.2 to about 2.5 ng/ml
 after the one day application with a nominal delivery rate of 100 pg/h. For
 dose strength different from a nominal delivery rate of 100 pg/h, the Cmw
 ranges are scaled accordingly by differences in area. In one such
 embodiment, the drug is fentanyl. In other such embodiments the drug is an
 analog of fentanyl, such as, for example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil,
 lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like, In certain such
 embodiments, the drug is in the base form of fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a
 base form and is dissolved or dispersed. In other embodiments the drug is
 completely dissolved.
 [0094]        In a specific embodiment, a patch as described herein is a
transdermal fentanyl patch of 100pg/h dose strength exhibiting a steady state
 Cma ranging from about 0.7 to about 12 ng/ml, such as about 1.5 to about 6
ng/ml, or alternatively about 2 to about 5,5 ng/ml, and furthermore, from about
3 to about 5 ng/ml. Such a fentanyl patch may additionally exhibit a steady
state Cmin ranging from about 0.5 to about 10 ng/mI, or from about 1 to about
5.5 ng/ml, or alternatively, from about 1 to about 4 ng/ml, or from about 1 to
about 3 ng/ml. For patches of lower or higher dose strengths, the steady
state Cmax ranges are scaled accordingly, e.g., based on the difference in
area. The fentanyl present in such embodiments may be the base form of
fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a base form and is dissolved or dispersed. In
other such embodiments the drug is completely dissolved.
[0095]         A patch as disclosed herein may also provide a targeted
difference between Cma and Cmin for a given dose strength. For example, in
one embodiment of a patch as described herein that provides a dose strength
of 100 pg/h, the daily swing between Cmax and Cmin ranges from about 0.025
to about 13.0 ng/ml, such as about 0.25 to about 2 ng/ml, or from about 0.3 to
about 1.6 ng/ml, or alternatively, from about 0.4 to about 0.8 ng/ml. In one
such embodiment, the drug is fentanyl. In other such embodiments the drug
is an analog of fentanyl, such as, for example, one or more of alfentanil,
carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like. In
                                   30

  certain such embodiments, the drug is in the base form of fentanyl, wherein
  fentanyl is in a base form and is dissolved or dispersed. In other
  embodiments the drug is completely dissolved.
  [0096]         Additionally a patch as disclosed herein, designed to provide a
  steady state for a dose strength of 100 pg/h, may also provide a drug
 fluctuation, defined as (Cma - Cmin)/Cavg, that may be less than 100%, such as
 less than 90%, or alternatively less than 80%, or furthermore less than 70%,
 or from about 30% to 65%. In one such embodiment, the drug is fentanyl. In
 other such embodiments the drug is an analog of fentanyl, such as, for
 example, one or more of alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil,
 sufentanil, trefentanil and the like. In certain such embodiments, the drug is in
 the base form of fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a base form and is dissolved
 or dispersed. In other embodiments the drug is completely dissolved.
 [0097]         For devices of dose strengths that are different from 100 pg/h,
 the daily swing between Cmax and Cmin ranges can be scaled accordingly. The
 daily swing between normalized Cm and Cmin ranges from about 2 to about
 100 ng/mI(mg/h), such as from about 4 to about 50 ng/ml(mg/h), or
 alternatively, from about 5 to about 20 ng/ml(mg/h), or from about 5 to about
 15 ng/mll(mg/h). For devices of dose strength that is different from 100 pg/h,
the daily swing between normalized Cmax and normalized Cmin ranges can be
scaled accordingly (such as for the 25pg/h, 50pg/h, 75pg/h, and 12.5pg/h
dose strengths). To be bioequivalent to a DURAGESIC® DTRANS* fentanyl
transdermal system, the 90% confidence interval of the steady state Cma ratio
of a new transdermal system to that of the DURAGESIC* DTRANS* system
should be within 80% to 125%. Also, the 90% confidence interval of the
AUC, ratio of a new transdermal system to that of a DURAGESIC®
DTRANS* system of the same dose strength should be within 80% to 125%.
Thus, to test for bioequivalency, new transdermal systems for delivery of
fentanyl are to be tested against DURAGESIC® DTRANS® systems to show
that the 90% confidence interval of the above-mentioned pharmacokinetic
parameter ratios of the new system to that of the DURAGESIC* DTRANS*
system are within 80% to 125%.
                                     31

 [0098]        With a nominal delivery rate of 100 pg/h, the AUC (i.e., the
 AUC to a time of infinity after a single dose) of a single dose application of a
 once-a-day fentanyl patch as described herein may range from about 15 to
 about 200 ng-h/ml, such as from about 30 to about 140 ng-h/ml after the daily
 application of a transdermal fentanyl patch with a nominal delivery rate of 100
 pg/h. For a transdermal fentanyl product, AUC, and AUCs have been
demonstrated to be bioequivalent (see Sathyan, et al "Evaluation of the
 bioequivalence of two transdermal fentanyl systems following single and
repeat applications" Current Medical Research and Opinion 21(12) 1961
 1968, 2005). For patches of lower or higher dose strengths, the steady state
AUCn1 ranges are scaled proportional to the patch area (or size). In some
such embodiments, the drug may be fentanyl. In certain such embodiments,
the drug Is in the base form of fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a base form and
is dissolved or dispersed. In other embodiments the drug is completely
dissolved.
[0099]         in some embodiments, a patch as disclosed herein is a
transdermal fentanyl patch exhibiting a normalized steady state Cmax for the
drug delivered ranging from about 7 to about 120 ng/ml(mg/h), such as from
about 15 to about 60 ng/ml(mg/h), or alternatively, from about 20 to about 55
ng/mi(mg/h), or from about 30 to about 50 ng/ml(mg/h). On administration
over skin a patch as described herein may provide a steady state drug flux of
about 0.1 to about 20 pg/(cm 2h); such as about 0.75 to about 10 pg/(cm 2h); or
from about 1 to about 8 pg/(cm 2h); or alternatively from about 1.5 to about 5
pg/(cm 2h); or from about 2 to about 3 pg/(cm2h). Steady-state administration
rates obtainable according to this disclosure range from about 0.1 to about
500 pg/h; such as from about 1 to about 300 pg/h; or alternatively, from about
2 to about 250 pg/h; or from about 5 to about 200 pg/h. Nominal steady-state
administration can range from, e.g., 12.5 pg/h, 25 pg/h, 50 pg/h, 75 pg/h, 100
pg/h, and 125 pg/h dose strengths. In some such embodiments, the drug
may be fentanyl. In certain such embodiments, the drug is in the base form
of fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a base form and is dissolved or dispersed.
In other embodiments the drug is completely dissolved.
                                   32

   [00100]               In additional embodiments, a patch disclosed herein is a
   transdermal fentanyl patch exhibiting a normalized steady state Cmi, ranging
   from about 5 to about 100 ng/ml(mg/h), such as about 10 to about 55
   ng/ml(mg/h), or alternatively, from about 10 to about 40 ng/mI(mg/h), or from
  about 10 to about 30 ng/ml(mg/h). The transdermal patch is about I to about
   100 cm2, such as about I to about 40 cm 2 ; or from about 5 to about 38 cm 2; or
  alternatively, from about 10 to about 35 cm2, or from about 10 to about 35
  cm2. On administration over skin, in terms of the amount of fentanyl present
  in the patch and flux, the transdermal fentanyl patch may generally exhibit a
  steady state drug flux of about 0.1 to 20 pg/(cm 2h); such as about I to about
  10 pg/(cm 2h); about 1.5 to about 8 pg/(cm 2h); about 2.8 to about 5 pg/(cm2h);
  or from about 3 to about 3.6 pg/(cm 2h). In some such embodiments, the
  drug may be fentanyl. In certain such embodiments, the drug is in the base
 form of fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a base form and is dissolved or
 dispersed. In other embodiments the drug is completely dissolved.
 [00101]         In yet additional embodiments, a patch as disclosed herein is 1
 day fentanyl patch the delivers fentanyl in a manner that approximates, for
 example, in a manner that is bioequivalent to, the 3-day DURAGESIC*
 DTRANSO system. In one such embodiment, both the surface area and the
 thickness of the 1-day patch are reduced relative to the 3-day patch. For
 example, in such an embodiment, the 1-day patch may have a skin-contacting
 area about 0.5 to 0.85, such as about 0.6 to 0.8, or alternatively, 0.7 to 0.77,
 or from about 0.71 to 0.76 that of the 3-day patch. Additionally, in such an
 embodiment, the thickness of the 1-day fentanyl reservoir can be about 0.25
to 0.75, such as about 0.4 to 0.6, or alternatively about 0.5 that of the
reservoir included in the 3-day patch. In each such embodiment, the patch
may include a polyacrylate fentanyl matrix.
100102]         Although a 1-day patch should deliver about 1/3 the amount of
fentanyl delivered by a three day patch, we have discovered that the 1-day
patch may have a skin-contacting area of larger than 1/3 that of the 3-day
patch of the same dose strength, thus between 1/3 to 0.9 that of the 3-day
patch. To compare the surface areas of two patches, consider the normalized
                                     33

  area of a patch as defined by dividing the patch drug reservoir area by the
  dose strength and dividing by the number of days the patch is to be used to
  deliver the drug (i.e., for the 3-day patch, the normalized area is obtained by
  dividing 42 cm 2 by 100 pg/h by 3=0.14 cm2 per pg/h per day= 5.8 cm2 per mg
  of nominal delivery amount). In comparison, the 1-day patch has a
  normalized area larger than 0.14 cm2 per pg/h per day (i.e., larger than 5.8
  cm2 per mg of nominal delivery amount), which is that of the 3-day patch.
  This is true even when the thickness of drug reservoir (e.g., a drug containing
  matrix) of the 1-day patch is less than that of the 3-day matrix patch.
  [00103]        In terms of normalized area based on nominal dose strength,
 i.e., body-contacting surface area divided by the nominal dose strength (e.g.,
 the normalized surface of a 100 pg/h delivery rate dose strength patch having
 a surface area of 42 cm2 is 0.42 cm2 per pg/h), for the delivery of 1-day worth
 of fentanyl, calculated according to the nominal dose strength, embodiments
 of a 1-day patch as disclosed herein may have a normalized area of about 0.2
 to 0.4 cm2 per pg/h per day (i.e., 8.5 to 16.5 cm2 per mg), such as about 0.25
 to 0.36 cm2 per pg/h per day (i.e., 10.5 to 15 cm2 per mg), or alternatively,
 about 0.28 to 0.32 cm 2 per pg/h per day (i.e., 11.5 to 13.5 cm2 per mg).
 [00104]          In one embodiment, the fentanyl loading per surface area in a
 1-day fentanyl patch according to the present description is less than that of a
 3-day fentanyl matrix patch, i.e., less than about 0.4 mg/ cm2, as the
 DURAGESIC* DTRANS* fentany transdermal system has about 0.4 mg/cm 2.
 However, we have found that for bioequivalence to DURAGESIC* DTRANS*
 fentanyl transdermal system, the loading in a 1-day patch is more than just
 1/3 that of the 3-day patch, i.e., more than 0.13 mg/cm 2. Therefore, in one
such embodiment of a 1-day fentanyl patch, the fentanyl loading per surface
area is about 0.14 to 0.3 mg/cm 2, such as about 0.16 to 0.25 mg/cm 2, or
alternatively, about 0.18 to 0.22 mg/cm 2.
[00105]         The loading of a smaller amount of drug in a patch and reducing
the residual drug in a used patch may offer advantages in reducing or
deterring drug abuse. In an embodiment of a 1-day fentanyl patch according
to the present description, the fentanyl content per patch may be about 4 to 8
                                     34

  mg, such as 5 to 7 mg, or alternatively, 5.5 to 6.5 mg for a patch of 100pg/h
 nominal dose strength. In terms of normalized value calculated for scaling to
 different dose strengths such as 25 pg/h, 50 pg/h, 125 pg/h, etc., the
 normalized fentanyl content, (which is the fentanyl content divided by the dose
 strength), is about 0.04 to 0.08 mg.h/pg, such as 0.05 to 0.07 mg.h/pg, or
 alternatively 0.055 to 0.065 mg.h/pg. It was found that 1-day patches
 exhibiting such loading provided therapeutic analgesia similar to the 3-day
 DUROGESIC DTRANS®.                For comparison, the 3-day DUROGESIC
 DTRANS* 1OOpg/h patches include about 17mg of fentanyl, which is about
 0.17 mg.h/pg.
 [00106]        A patch as described herein may be designed to provides a
 desired utilization of drug (%-utilization).       For example, in particular
 embodiment, the patch described herein may be a 1-day patch providing a
 drug utilization of larger than about 30%, such as at least 35%, or alternatively
 at least 40%, or 40% to 50%. In one such embodiment, the patch is a
fentanyl patch providing a utilization fentanyl larger than about 30%, such as
 at least 35%, or alternatively at least 40%, or 40% to 50%. In certain such
 embodiments, the drug is in the base form of fentanyl, wherein fentanyl is in a
 base form and is dissolved or dispersed. In other embodiments the drug is
 completely dissolved. Alternatively, a patch designed according to such
 embodiments is designed to deliver an analog of fentanyl, such as, for
example alfentanil, carfentanil, lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil
and the like.
 [00107]        Administration of a patch is typically maintained for no greater
than three days, such as two days, or alternatively, one day. It is to be
understood that based on the present disclosure, patches that are to be
applied to the patient for any number of hours (from 8, 24, 36, 48, 72 hours)
and then replaced. However, in one embodiment, a method of administration
as disclose herein calls for daily replacement (one-day use). Again, without
being bound by or limited to a particular theory, it is thought that in light of the
depot effect, if only one patch is applied on the first day and replaced daily,
the blood plasma drug level will gradually increase and may take 2 or more
                                    35

 days to come to a steady state for a therapeutic effect. In another aspect, the
 present disclosure provides a method of administering an opiold, including
 fentanyl or an analog of fentanyl, such as, for example alfentanil, carfentanil,
 lofentanil, remifentanil, sufentanil, trefentanil and the like by applying two or
 more patches initially on day one and subsequently daily applying a new
 patch to replace a day-old patch starting from day two, such that the drug
 plasma level is within a therapeutic range in a shorter period of time, e.g., in
 about one day. Some of the two or more patches can be removed on days
 following the first day such that at steady state, only one patch remains on the
 skin for analgesia.
 [00108]       Thus, in one embodiment, where fentanyl is to be delivered to a
 patient for analgesia, and the patient may require a relatively higher plasma
 concentration of fentanyl, such, for example, an opioid tolerant patient, in
 order to achieve therapeutic effect, large doses of fentanyl, such as two, three
 or more patches can be administered to the patient on the first day in order to
 ensure a therapeutically effective plasma level of fentanyl is achieved on the
first day. On day two, one or more of the patches can be replaced, and on
day three, all of the patches can be removed, with only one new patch being
reapplied. Variations of the above procedure can be used, such as replacing
only one patch after day one and/or removing a different number of used
patches. The use of multiple patches initially is particularly suitable for
patients who are not naive to the drug but already have a level of tolerance.
Using two or more patches initially and gradually reducing the number of
patches on the skin can quickly bring the blood drug level to the steady state
level. To determine whether a patient is naive to the drug, the medical record
can be referenced in the process.
[00109]         In another aspect, a patient can be determined (e.g., on the
basis of the medical record) to be naive to the opioid drug, e.g., such as
fentanyl, and that the patient will benefit from a blood drug level lower during
the first day than the steady state blood level. Based on this determination,
only one transdermal opioid patch is applied and replacement is done daily
(every 24 hours) so that only one patch is used for delivery of the drug at a
                                    36

  time. In certain cases it may be determined to be desirable to achieve the
  steady state target plasma drug concentration in 2 to 3 days, for example, for
  a fentanyl naive patient. The regimen of starting initially by applying only one
  patch on day one will allow such gradual increase to be carried out and yet
 achieve acceptable analgesia due to the drug-naiveness of the patient.
 [00110]          The transdermal devices disclosed can be included in a kit that
 contains the device and includes an instruction print, such as an insert or
 printings on a container, and the like that provides instruction on the how long
 each patch is to be applied to a patient and how often the patch is to be
 removed and replaced with a new patch. The instruction-of use can Include a
 regimen of patch application as described above, including instruction such as
 applying one patch initially and replacing daily, or applying two patches
 Initially and removing both but replacing only one after one day, or other
 alternative regimens. The instruction of use can also include a brief
 description of the drug, the backing, the reservoir, the adhesive,
 pharmacokinetic information, information on disposing a control substance
(e.g., fentanyl) and warnings.
          Methods of Manufacture
[00111]         The transdermal devices are manufactured according to known
methodology, such as those described in U.S. Patent Publication No.
2003002682. In brief, a transdermal drug delivery device can be made by
forming a matrix drug-containing adhesive reservoir layer on a backing
material, laying a protective film on the matrix reservoir and cutting to form a
device of the desired size. The drug-containing matrix can be formed on the
backing by casting a drug/adhesive solution on the backing layer and allowing
solvent to evaporate and escape from the drug/adhesive, thereby forming the
drug-containing matrix with a desired thickness and drug concentration.
          Simulation
[00112]         Below are examples of specific embodiments for of the once-a
day fentanyl patch:
                                   37

         Simulation 1: Steady State, 1-day Patch vs. 3-day Patches
  [00113]       FIG. 3 shows a simulation graph of the serum fentanyl level at
  steady state comparing the use of 1-day transdermal fentanyl base patches
  versus using 3-day transdermal base patches (DUROGESIC* DTRANS®
  matrix patches, available in the United Kingdom from Janssen-Cilag). The
  actual data of 3-day patches applied to the skin for three days before removal
 without replacement were used as the basis for the continuous effect of
  steady state administration. The actual data for the 3-day patches are the
 same as those shown in FIG. 4 and FIG. 5.
  [00114]      The actual individual serum fentanyl concentration data after a
 3-day administration of a single Transdermal DTRANS® fentanyl 100 pg/h
 matrix system were used for the purpose of simulation. For the single
 administration of a transdermal fentanyl system, the serum fentanyl
 concentration at time t, C(t), during the wearing of a system is based on the
 data collected. The serum fentanyl concentration post-removal of transdermal
 fentanyl system is approximated by a first-order decay function using the
 elimination rate constant, k, for each individual and this constant is assumed
 to be the same when the system is removed after 24 hours of use. The
 serum fentanyl concentration at hour t, after the application of the second
 system, C(t)20" and the simultaneous removal of the first system is simulated
 according to the following equation based on superposition principle:
                          C(t)2nd = C(t) + C(-)ek
where r is the dosing interval, e.g., 24 hours if the first system is removed and
 the second system is applied at the end of 24 hours, C(t) is the serum
 concentration observed at t hours after the application of a single system, C(t)
 is the serum concentration at t hour after the application of a single system,
and k is the apparent first order decay rate constant describing the serum
fentanyl concentration post-system removal at hour c. The serum fentanyl
concentration after the application of Nth system is simulated according to the
following equation. C(u)e'kt is the decaying concentration due to the old patch
                                   38

  applied at r; t is the dosing interval, 24 or 72 hours, etc., while t is related to
  the elapsed time from the last patch application.
                                                    e
                        C(t)N-4h = C(t) + C()e
                                                   J-e
 [00115]        At steady state (when N approaches infinity), the plasma
 fentanyl concentration is simulated according to the following equation:
                           C(t)   = C(t) + C(r)e-    1
 [00116]        The serum fentanyl concentration data after a single application
 of the 3-day acrylate matrix fentanyl patch for 37 healthy subjects were used
 as the basis for simulation of the 3-day system and the 1-day system.
 Patches that were approximately half (52% of) the size of the DUROGESIC*
 DTRANS* matrix patches 100 pg/h, and having the same composition were
 used as the 1-day patches for the simulation. Thus, the scaling factor for
 obtaining the parameters for the 1-day system of the same material
 construction (except in surface area) by simulation based on data from a 3
day patch is 0.52. The value for 52% was arrived at by dividing the Cavg
(average concentration) of a 3-day acrylate matrix fentanyl patch
(DUROGESIC® DTRANS® matrix patch) applied for only one day by the Caq
of a 3-day acrylate matrix fentanyl patch applied for three days. Since a 3-day
patch works for three days, its delivery for the first day is assumed to be an
amount, which if repeated three times, will be equivalent to the three day
patch delivering for three days. The DUROGESIC® DTRANS* matrix patch
(dose strength 100 pg/h) was used as the 3-day patches. Therefore the 1-day
patches have the same matrix thickness and drug concentration as the
DUROGESIC* DTRANS* matrix patch but were 21cm 2 each rather than 42
cm2 . In this simulation, the 3-day patches were applied with replacement
once every three days (72 hours) with one patch on the skin at any given
time. The 1-day patches were simulated as applied with replacement once
every day (24 hours) with one patch on the skin at any given time.
                                     39

[00117]       The graph shows the excerpt of a mathematically simulated
steady state (as time approaches infinity) 72-hour section. For convenience,
in the graph of FIG. 3, the hours are shown to span a period of 72 hours at
steady state starting at zero hour (i.e., the curves are continuous, repeating
before the zero hour and after the 72 hour). In FIG. 3, the dash line (---)
curve with the open circle data points represents simulated serum fentanyl
concentration values for the 3-day patches, the solid line curve with the
diamond data points represents simulated values for the 1-day patches. In
this simulation, although not included in the excerpt that is depicted in the
graph of FIG. 3, the 1-day patches took about 3 days to come to essentially a
steady state condition, In the first two days (before steady state was
achieved) when the concentration was rising, the concentration after 24 hours
was only about half that of the steady state Cmax and the concentration after
48 hours was only about 70% that of the steady state C,. similar to what is
shown in FIG. 5 for the application of 1-day patches. The 3-day 100 pg/h
patches were replaced once every three days. It is noted that for the 100 pg/h
patches, the mean Cmx was about 4.7 ng/ml and the mean Cmin was about
2.1 ng/ml. For the 1-day patches, the mean Cma was about 3.5 ng/ml and the
mean Cmin was about 2.9 ng/ml. Thus, the 1-day patches had a Cmx that was
lower than the Cmx of the 3-day patches. However, the 1-day patches had a
Cmin that was higher than the Cms, of the 3-day patches, resulting in a smaller
swing between the Cmax and Cmin for the 1-day patches.
       Simulation 2: 3-day application of 1-day patches, Double initial dose
[00118]       FIG. 4 shows a simulation graph of the blood fentanyl level at
the beginning of use of a transdermal fentanyl product comparing the use of
1-day transdermal fentanyl base patches versus actual data using 3-day
transdermal base patches (DUROGESIC* DTRANS® matrix patches) one
time without replacement. The same skin and patch parameters as
SIMULATION 1 were used.
[00119]       Patches that were half the size of the DUROGESIC* DTRANS*
matrix patches and having the same composition were used as the 1-day
patches for the simulation. The DUROGESIC® DTRANS® matrix patches
                                 40

  were 100 pg/h patches of 42 cm2 each. Therefore, the 1-day patches had the
  same matrix thickness and drug concentration as the DUROGESIC*
  DTRANS® matrix patch but were approximately 21 cm2 each. For the 3-day
  patches, in an actual experiment, only one DUROGESIC* DTRANS* matrix
 patch was initially applied at zero hour and remained In place until removal
 after 72 hours. The 1-day patch was replaced every 24 hours. In the
 simulation, two 1-day patches were applied at zero hour. At 24 hours the two
 initial patches were removed and replaced with only one new 1-day patch.
 Subsequently the 1-day patch was replaced daily with a fresh patch. The final
 used patch was removed at 72 hours for both cases. The simulation
 generated data points started at the physical 24 th hour data point of the 3-day
 patch because in both cases the same patch material and amount were used
 during the first 24 hours. In the graph of FIG. 4, the dash line (---) curve with
the open circle data points represents data for the 3-day patches, the solid
 line curve with the triangle data points is the curve for the 1-day patches.
 [00120]        The actual experimental data show the daily swing of the 3-day
patch with a gradual overall decline in fentanyl concentration in the blood.
The simulated data show that when using patches half the size of
 DUROGESIC* DTRANS" matrix patches the blood fentanyl concentration can
be maintained in a reasonably stable therapeutic level starting from the 2 4 h
hour. In fact, the daily fluctuation is much smaller than that of the 3-day
patch.
         Simulation 3: 3-day application of 1-day patches, Single initial dose
[00121]         FIG. 5 shows a simulation graph of the serum fentanyl level at
the beginning of a transdermal fentanyl product comparing the use of 1-day
transdermal fentanyl base patches versus actual data using 3-day
transdermal base patches (DUROGESIC" DTRANS* matrix patches). The
same actual data for the 3-day patches as FIG. 4 were used. The same
pharmacokinetic parameters as SIMULATION 1 were used.
[00122]         Patches that were half the size of the DUROGESIC® DTRANSO
matrix patches and having the same composition were used as the 1-day
                                    41

  patches for the simulation. The DUROGESIC* DTRANS* matrix patches
 were 100 pg/h patches of 42cm2 each, Therefore the 1-day patches had the
 same matrix thickness and drug concentration as the DUROGESIC*
 DTRANS* matrix patch but were approximately 21cm 2 each. The same
 actual physical experimental data from SIMULATION 2 were used for the 3
 day patches. In the simulation, only one 1-day patch was applied at zero
 hour. At (i.e., after) 24 hours the initial patch was removed and replaced with
 one new 1-day patch. Subsequently the 1-day patch was replaced daily with
 a fresh patch. The final used patch was removed at 72 hours for both cases.
The simulation generated data points started at zero hour. In the graph of
 FIG. 5, the dash line (----) curve with the open circle data points represents
data for the 3-day patches, the solid line curve with the diamond data points
represents simulated data for the 1-day patches. The simulated data show
that using patches half the size of DUROGESIC* DTRANS* matrix patches
only one at a time the blood fentanyl concentration will gradually increase to
arrive at a level that is at the therapeutic level after 3 days. The 1-day
patches took about 3 days to come to essentially a peak condition similar to
the steady state condition of Simulation 1 using 1-day patches. In the first two
days when the concentration was rising, the concentration after 24 hours was
only about half that of the peak Cmm, and the concentration after 48 hours was
only about 75% that of the peak Cmm. The dip in blood fentanyl level at the
time of replacement was quite small as the blood fentanyl concentration
continued on its upward swing to reach the steady-state level.
        Experimental
[00123]         Examples of specific embodiments are included below. The
examples are offered for illustrative purposes only, and are not intended to
limit the scope of the present disclosure in any way. Although a reservoir
saturated with drug can be used, the adhesive-reservoir patches wherein the
reservoir comprises a single phase polymeric composition free of undissolved
components containing an amount of fentanyl at or below subsaturation
concentration are disclosed in the following examples. In the following
examples all percentages are by weight unless noted otherwise. It is noted
that for the following examples, instead of making the 3-day patches for the
                                    42

  experiments, one can also obtain DUROGESIC* DTRANS or DUROGESIC*
  SMAT (which is equivalent in structure to DUROGESIC* DTRANS) patches
  from vendors and cut them to right surface area as required for the
  experiments.
         Example 1: 3-day Patch. 1 Time Application for 3 Days
  [00124]      Monolithic transdermal patches according to Fig. 1 that had the
 same construction as the commercial DUROGESICS DTRANS* patches
 comprising about 8 wt% of fentanyl base were made and used. The matrix
 adhesive was National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-4287 polyacrylate adhesive.
 The resultant matrix was about 2 mils (0.05 mm) thick. The patches were
 made to have sizes of about 5.5 cm2 , 11 cm 2, 21 cm2 , 32 cm2 , and 42 cm2
 corresponding to nominal fentanyl dose strength delivery rates of 12.5 pg/h,
 25 pg/h, 50 pg/h, 75 pg/h, and 100 pg/h. In the process of making the
 patches, a polyacrylate adhesive solution was prepared (98.35 kg National
 Starch 87-4287 of about 39wt% solids was diluted with 18.3 kg ethyl acetate).
 Then 3.35 kg of fentanyl base was added to the polyacrylate adhesive
 solution in amounts sufficient to generate a mixture containing 2.8 wt% of
fentanyl in the adhesive solution and stirred to dissolve the drug. The solution
was cast and the solvent was evaporated to result in a 2 mil (0.05mm) thick
 reservoir layer. A 1.7 mil (0.04mm) thick backing layer comprised of a
 multilaminate of polyethylene/polyurethane/polyester layer was laminated on
to the adhesive drug reservoir layer using standard procedures. Individual
patches were die-cut from this laminate in 11 cm 2, 21 cm2 , 32 cm2 , and 42
cm2 sizes comprising respectively, 4.4, 8.5, 13, and 17 mg each of fentanyl, to
generate monolithic transdermal patches containing about 0.4 mg/cm 2 of
fentanyl base.
[00125]        Subjects were randomly assigned to a treatment sequence and
to wear a study system on the upper outer arm, upper chest, or upper back as
per a randomization list. There were four treatment periods. Subjects
selected were not dependent on opioids. During each treatment, the study
system was worn for 72 hours on a new application skin site on the
application area to which subjects were randomized (upper outer arm, upper
                                  43

chest, or upper back). For each subject the same area of the body was used
throughout the study. There was a minimum washout period of at least 6
days and not more than 14 days between treatments. The washout period
was to commence upon removal of the study system.
[00126]         FIG. 6 shows the summary of the averaged data on the fentanyl
concentration in the blood of the subjects in a normalized form (i.e., the data
were normalized to the 25 pg/h dose rate (i.e., dose strength) by dividing the
fentanyl concentration with the ratio factor of the nominal dose strength
delivery rate by the 25 pg/h nominal dose strength delivery rate). Thus, the
data for the 100 pg/h dose rate were divided by 4 to be compared to the curve
for the 25 pg/h, which was original). In FIG. 6, the solid curve with diamond
data points represents the data for the 25 pg/h dose rate. The dash curve
with the open circle data points represents the data for the 50 pg/h dose rate.
The dotted curve with the star data points represents the data for the 75 pg/h
dose rate. The dash/dot (- - - -) curve with the asterisk data points represents
the data for the 100 pg/h dose strength. FIG. 6 shows that different dose
rates have about the same proportional changes with time in the fentanyl
concentration. In a dimensionless, normalized form, the curves for each dose
rate were about the same (within experimental errors, without significant
statistical difference). Thus, in another normalized form In which the blood
fentanyl concentration was divided by the Cavg, wherein Cvg is the average
plasma fentanyl concentration, the curves for the different dose strengths (not
shown in graphs here) would be almost the same. For example, CJJ/Cavg
and Cin/Cavg within the first 48 hours would be about the same for each dose
rate.
         Example 2: 3-day Patch, Replaced Daily for 3 Davs
[00127]          FIG. 7 represents actual serum fentanyl concentrations collected
over time in using 3-day patches (that had the same construction as the
commercial DURAGESIC* reservoir patches containing about 8 wt% of
fentanyl base) when they were replaced once every 24 hours. Since the
DUROGESIC* DTRANS matrix patches were made to be bioequivalent to the
DURAGESIC* reservoir patches, using either kind of these patches would
                                    44

  result in similar serum fentanyl concentration. Patches with dose strength of
  75 pg/h were used. In this study (in which 11 colon-rectal surgery patients
  were tested), a first 75 pg/h patch was applied at the beginning at zero hour
  (approximately 2 hours prior to the induction of anesthesia). General
  anesthesia was induced with 2-4 mg/kg thiopental and a 3-5 pg/kg bolus of
  fentanyl up to a maximum dose of 400 pg. Thereafter, the patch was
  replaced every 24 hours. At (after) 72 hour, the patch (i.e. the third patch)
 was removed,
  (00128]        The data show a step-wise increase in serum concentration with
 each new patch administration, This result was not expected because it was
 assumed that the multi-day patches would deliver drug with kinetics
 consistent with the constant intravenous infusion of fentanyl. Because only
 one patch is applied to the skin at any given time, the expectation (similar to
 the case of constant infusion model) was that the serum fentanyl levels would
 be similar to that of the case as a single three day patch applied on the skin
 for three days, in which case serum fentanyl concentrations would rise to and
 maintain at approximately the steady-state concentration obtained after 24
 hours. However, an accumulation effect with daily replacement resulting in
gradual (or stepwise) increase of serum drug level over many days was found
in delivery of opioid narcotic, such as fentanyl.
         Example 3: 1-day Patch (with 87-2287 Adhesive), Replaced Daily for 3
         or More Days
[00129]         Monolithic transdermal patches according to Fig. 1 are prepared
in 5, 11, 21, 31 and 42 cm2 sizes comprising about 7 wt% of fentanyl base to
correspond to 25 pg/h, 50 pg/h, 100 pg/h, 150 pg/h, and 200 pg/h (based on
0.52 scaling factor).
[00130]        The matrix adhesive was National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-2287
polyacrylate adhesive. The DURO-TAK* 87-2287 adhesive polymer is an
adhesive polymerized from vinyl acetate, 28%; 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, 67%;
hydroxyethyl acrylate, 4.9%; and glycidal methacrylate, 0.1% (see USPN
5,693,335). An about 43wt% polyacrylate adhesive solution (National Starch
                                   45

 87-2287 in ethyl acetate) was prepared. Fentanyl base was added to the
 polyacrylate adhesive solution in amounts sufficient to generate a mixture
 containing about 3.4wt% of fentanyl in the adhesive solution and stirred to
 dissolve the drug. The solution was cast into a reservoir layer and the solvent
 is evaporated to result in a matrix layer of 1 mil (0.025mm) thickness. After
solvent evaporation, a 3 mil thick backing layer comprised of a multilaminate
of nonlinear LDPE layer/linear LDPE layer/nonlinear LDPE layer is laminated
on to the adhesive drug reservoir layer using standard procedures. Individual
patches are die-cut from this laminate in 5, 11, 21, 31 and 42 cm2 sizes to
have about 7 wt% each of fentanyl, to generate monolithic transdermal
patches containing about 0.2 mg/cm 2 of fentanyl base.
[00131]        Such patches are to be applied to an oploid-naive patient with
the application of only one patch initially and replacement every 24 hours.
The result is expected to be that the 1-day patches take about 3 days to come
to essentially a steady state condition. The concentration after 24 hours is
only about 50% to 60% that of the steady state Cm. and the concentration
after 48 hours is only about 70% to 80% that of the. steady state Cma. The
result of the first three days is expected to be similar to that shown in FIG. 5
and similar to that of FIG. 3 at near steady state, after about 3 days, based on
simulation. The values can be scaled according to the dose strength based
on the size differences and that the normalized curves according to dose
strength will substantially superimpose.
[00132]        In another test, such patches are to be applied to a person who
has substantially no such drug in the blood, by applying two patches initially at
zero hour. Both initial patches are removed at the end of 24 hours and
replaced with only one 1-day patch, which is thereafter replaced every 24
hours. The result is expected to be that the 1-day patches take about 1 day to
come to the level of essentially steady state condition. The fentanyl
concentration Cma during the first 24 hours is about 3 ng/ml. The result of
the second and third days is expected to be similar to that shown in FIG. 4
(near steady state) and similar to that of FIG. 3 thereafter. After about 3 days,
fentanyl concentration will come to steady state. The values can be scaled
                                   46

   according to the dose strength based on the size differences and that the
   normalized curves according to dose strength will substantially superimpose.
         Example 4: 1-day Patch (with 87-4287 Adhesive), Replaced Daily for 3
         or More Days
  [00133]       Monolithic transdermal patches according to FIG. I are
  prepared in 5, 11, 21, 31 and 42 cm2 sizes comprising about 8 wt% each of
  fentanyl base using the process of Example 1 to correspond to 25 pg/h,
  50 pg/h, 100 pg/h, 150 pg/h, and 200 pg/h dose strengths.
  [00134]      A polyacrylate adhesive (National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-4287,
  100 g) is solubilized in a solvent (ethyl acetate, 160 ml). Fentanyl base is
 added to the polyacrylate adhesive solution in amounts sufficient to generate
 a mixture containing 2.8 wt% of fentanyl in the adhesive solution and stirred to
 dissolve the drug. The solution is cast Into reservoir layer and the solvent is
 evaporated to result in a matrix layer of about 1 mil (0.025mm) thickness.
 After solvent evaporation, a 1.7 mil thick backing layer comprised of a
 multilaminate of polyethylene/polyurethane polyester layer is laminated on to
 the adhesive drug reservoir layer using standard procedures. Individual
 patches are die-cut from this laminate in 5, 11, 21, 31 and 42 cm2 sizes
 comprising about 8 wt% each of fentanyl, to generate monolithic transdermal
 patches containing 0.2 mg/cm 2 of fentanyl base as 1-day patches.
 [00135]       Such patches in low doses are to be applied to an opioid-naive
 patient with only one patch initially and replaced every 24 hours. Thus, for
 example, if a patient would receive a 100 pg/h dose strength device, the
administration of the drug to the patient is titrated upward starting with a lower
dose strength, e.g., with a 25 pg/h dose strength. The result is expected to be
that the 1-day patches take about 3 days to come to essentially a steady state
condition. The Cma after 24 hours is only about 50% to 60% that of the
steady state Cmam and the Cma after 48 hours is only about 70% to 80% that of
the steady state Cma. The result of the first three days is expected to be
similar in shape to that shown in FIG. 5 and similar in shape to that of FIG. 3
at near steady state, after about 3 days, except that the numerical values will
be lower than the 100 pg/h dose strength. The values can be scaled
                                  47

 according to the dose strength based on the size differences and that the
 normalized curves according to dose strength will substantially superimpose.
 [00136]        In another test, such patches are to be applied to an opioid
 naive person who has substantially no such drug in the blood, by applying two
 patches Initially at zero hour. Both initial patches are removed at the end of
24 hours and replaced with only one 1-day patch, which is thereafter replaced
every 24 hours. The result is expected to be that the 1-day patches takes
about 1 day to come to a blood level of essentially steady state condition.
The result of the second and third days is expected to be similar in shape to
that shown in FIG. 4 (near steady state) and similar in shape to that of FIG. 3
thereafter. The values can be scaled according to the dose strength based on
the size differences and that the normalized curves according to dose
strength will substantially superimpose.
        Example 5: 3 days application:1-day Patch vs. 3-day patches (50 pq/h)
[00137]        Monolithic transdermal patches according to FIG. 1 were
prepared, which include about 8 wt% of fentanyl base in a process similar to
Example 1 using National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-4287 adhesive for 50 pg/h
dose strength. The area of a 3-day patch was 21 cm2 and the fentanyl matrix
layer was about 2 mil (0.05mm=50 pm) thick. Thinner and smaller 16 cm2
patches were also made for the 1-day use patches for comparison. For these
thinner patches, the fentanyl solutions were cast to form matrix thicknesses
(after solvent evaporation) of 0.038 mm (38 pm), and 0.025 mm (25 pm) to
form 16 cm2 patches. The 2 mil 3-day monolithic transdermal patches
contained 0.4 mg/cm2 of fentanyl base. The 1 mil 1-day monolithic
transdermal patches contained 0.2 mg/cm 2 of fentanyl base.
[00138]        Such patches were applied to opiold-naive patients. Each
subject was to receive both the 1-day patch and the 3-day patches but not
together. Subjects selected were not dependent on opioids. The patches
were tested on 18 subjects with different periods for patches of different
thicknesses. During each treatment, the study system was worn for the set
period on a new application skin site on the application area, For each
                                   48

 subject the same anatomical area was used throughout the study. There was
 a minimum washout period of at least 6 days and not more than 14 days
 between treatments. The washout period was to commence upon removal of
 the study system. The 3-day patch (50 pm) was worn for 72 hours then
 removed. The 25 pm patch was worn for 24 hours and changed to a new
 patch at the 2 4 th and the 4 81h hour. The 38 pm patch was worn for 24 hours
 and changed to a new patch at the 2 4th and the 4 8 h hour. For one period, a
 25 pm patch was worn for 24 hours, removed and the blood fentanyl
 concentration was monitored until at the end of the 72nd hour.
 [00139]       FIG. 8 shows the summary of the averaged data (over all the
 subjects N=18) on the fentanyl concentration in the blood of the subjects for
the various matrix thicknesses. The diamond data points represent the data
for the 3-day patches applied for 3 days. The circle data points represent the
data for the 1-day 38 pm patches applied for 3 days with daily replacement.
The square data points (below the circle data points) represent the data for
the 1-day 25 pm patches applied for 3 days with daily replacement. The
triangle data points represent the data for the 1-day 25 pm patches where the
patches were removed after one day use without replacement. The results
show that after three days, the 38 pm patch might lead to a steady state
fentanyl blood content of higher than the 3-day patch could. After three days,
the 25 pm patch led to a steady state fentanyl blood content of about equal to
what the 3-day patch steady state blood content would be. The 25 pm
patches at 16 cm2 had only 38% the fentanyl content of the 3-day patch, less
than the 52% that was predicted by the Simulation I above. These 25 pm
patches had about 0.4 mg/cm 2. These patches, with less fentanyl than
Simulation 1, were able to meet or exceed the fentanyl delivery rate predicted
by Simulation 1.
[00140]       The mean fentanyl amount delivered was calculated for each
treatment by subtracting the mean residual fentanyl content from the initial
average fentanyl content of the system at time 0 (t=0) as shown below:
[00141]       Mean amount delivered (mg)=lnitial content (mg) - Mean
residual content (mg).
                                    49

100142]        The data show that the mean amount of fentanyl delivered for
the 1-day systems was 1.59 mg for the QD 38 pm system and 1.39 to 1.54
mg for the QD 25 pm system. The mean amount delivered for the 3-day 50
pg/h system was 3.85 mg. For calculation, the initial average fentanyl
amounts (actual fentanyl content of the systems at t=0) were 5.47 mg, 3.42
mg, 8.01 mg for the QD 38 pm, QD 25 pm, and 3-day (50 pm) 50 pg/h
systems, respectively. The mean amount delivered during system application
represented approximately 29%, 43%, and 48% of the fentanyl in the QD 38
pm, QD 25 pm, and 3-day 50 pg/h systems, respectively. Thus, the thinner I
day QD patch (25 pm) was able to have a %-utilization of fentanyl close to the
3-day (50 pm) system, better than the thicker 1-day (38pm) QD system.
[00143]        The data for the 50 pm 3-day patches and the data for the 25
pm 1-day patches were used to simulate pharmacokinetic profile of steady
state profile for using 3-day patches with replacement every 3 days and using
1-day patches with replacement daily using the simulation method of
Simulation 1. FIG. 9 shows the simulated data up to 336 hours. The last
change of the 3-day patch (solid line) took place at the 2 161h hour. The last
change of the 1-day patch (dashed line) took place at the 2 6 4th hour. The
simulation data show that the 3-day, 50 pm, 21 cm2 patches had a similar
steady state profile as the 1-day, 25 pm, 18 cm2 patches. For dose strengths
other than 50 pg/h, the data information can be scaled for estimation. For
example, the 100 pg/h simulated data can be obtained by doubling the
fentanyl concentration of the 50 pg/h data.
       Example 6A: 12 days application:1-day Patch vs. 3-day patches (100
        !/h)
[001441        Monolithic transdermal patches according to FIG. 1 were
prepared to contain about 8 wt% of fentanyl base in a process similar to
Example I using National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-4287 adhesive for 100 pg/h
dose strength. The area of a 3-day patch was 42 cm2 and the fentanyl matrix
layer was about 2 mil (0.05mm=50 pm) thick. Thinner 25 pm thick matrix, 36
cm2 patches were also made for the 1-day use patches for comparison. The
                                  50

  1-day patch thus had 43% of the amount of fentanyl of the 3-day patch.
 These 1-day 25 pm patches had about 0.2 mg/cm 2.
 [00145]        Such patches were applied to opioid-naive patients. Subjects
 selected were not dependent on opioids. The patches were tested on 17
 subjects with different periods for patches of different thicknesses. During
 each treatment, the study system was worn for the set period on a new
 application skin site on the application area. For each subject the same area
 of the body was used throughout the study. There was a minimum washout
 period of at least 6 days and not more than 14 days between treatments. The
 washout period was to commence upon removal of the study system. The 3
 day 50 pm patch was worn for 72 hours then removed and replaced with a
 new patch (total of 4 patches). The 1-day 25 pm patch was worn for 24 hours
then removed and replaced with a new patch (total of 12 patches).
Surprisingly, the subjects-averaged (N=17) fentanyl concentration for both
sizes continued to increase even after the 144m1 hour (data before the 216'
hour not shown in graphs here). Steady state was reached at or before the
2161h hour. FIG. 10 shows the summary of the averaged data (over N=17) on
the fentanyl concentration in the blood of the subjects from the 216"' hour to
the 288u' hour. The curve with diamond data points represents the 3-day
patches. The curve with open circle data points represents the 1-day
patches. The data show that the steady state fentanyl concentration in the
blood was higher for the 1-day patches (more than 1.25 as high) compared
with the 3-day patches.
[00146]        FIG. 11 shows the comparison of the steady state 3-day patch
data of FIG. 10 versus the simulated steady state 3-day patch data scaled
from the data of FIG. 9 to 100 pg/h nominal dose strength. The simulated
curve is the curve without diamond data points. The two curves match very
well. FIG. 12 shows the comparison of the steady state 1-day patch data (the
top curve with diamond data points) of FIG. 10 versus the simulated steady
state 1-day patch data (bottom curve) scaled from the data of FIG. 9 to 100
pg/h nominal dose strength. The actual steady state data (the top curve) had
an AUCvO of about 29% higher than that of the simulated steady state data.
                                   51

  Thus, even though simulation predicted well the results of the 3-day patches,
  in this case, it did not predict quite as well the results of the 1-day patches.
          Example 6B: 12 days application:1-day Patches
  [00147]        Monolithic transdermal 1-day patches were made according
  Example 6A. Three dose strengths were used (12.5, 50, and 100 pg/h).
  [00148]        In this study, the dose relationship of a 1-day (called QD for
  short) fentanyl matrix (25 pm adhesive thickness) system, with presumed
  nominal delivery rates of about 12.5 pg/h, 50 pg/h, and 100 pg/h and varying
 system area size (4.5 cm2, 18 cm2, and 36 cm2, respectively), was evaluated
 in order to cover the entire dose range of this product. Subjects received the
 following 3 treatments in a crossover manner according to a randomly
 assigned sequence: Treatment A: (data points represented in FIG. 13 by
 diamonds, subjects n=16) fentanyl matrix QD 12.5 pg/h, 4.5 cm2 system area,
 single application. Treatment B: (data points represented in FIG. 13 by open
 circles, subjects n=16) fentanyl matrix QD 50 pg/h, 18 cm2 system area,
 single application. Treatment C: (data points represented in FIG. 13 by open
 triangles, subjects n=17) fentanyl matrix QD 100 pg/h, 36 cm2 system area,
 single application. Thirteen subjects completed the study. The 1-day patches
 thus had about 38% of the amount of fentanyl of the 3-day patches. Such
 patches were applied to opioid-naive patients. Subjects selected were not
 dependent on opiolds. The patches were tested on the subjects with different
 periods for patches of different thicknesses. During each treatment, the study
 system was worn for the set period on a new application skin site on the
 application area. For each subject the same area of the body was used
 throughout the study. There was a minimum washout period of at least 6
 days and not more than 14 days between treatments. The washout period
was to commence upon removal of the study system. Mean serum fentanyl
concentrations for each treatment are presented in FIG. 13. The data of FIG.
 13 show that the blood fentanyl concentration was a function of the dose
strength. The fentanyl blood concentrations, represented by measured
fentanyl concentration in serum, when normalized by dividing with the
                                      52

  respective dose strength, show curves that were very close to one another in
  shapes and values.
  [00149]        The initial average fentanyl amounts (measured fentanyl content
  of the 12.5 pg/h, 50 pg/h, and 100 pg/h systems at t=o) were 0.97 mg, 3.5 mg,
  and 7.1 mg, respectively. Because all 3 dose strengths (12.5 pg/h, 50 pg/h,
  and 100 pg/h) were manufactured from the same laminate, they should have
  the same fentanyl contents on a mg/cm 2 basis (0.20 mg/cm 2 as the mean of 3
  lot release values). The calculated initial fentanyl contents, 0.91 mg, 3.64 mg,
 and-7.29 mg, for the 12.5 pg/h, 50 pg/h, and 100 pg/h systems, respectively,
 were then used to calculate the amount of fentanyl delivered. The data
 showed that the mean amounts of fentanyl delivered for the nominal
 12.5 pg/h, 50 pg/h, and 100 pg/h dose strength systems were 0.38 mg, 1.24
 mg, and 2.92 mg, respectively. The mean amounts of fentanyl delivered
 during system application (%-utilization) represented approximately 42%,
 34%, and 40% of fentanyl in the 12.5 pg/h, 50 pg/h, and 100 pg/h systems,
 respectively. In comparison, the %-utilization for DUROGESIC* DTRANS*
fentanyl was not much different from these. In a study of DUROGESIC*
 DTRANS* fentanyl patches, twelve subjects had used systems analyzed for
residual fentanyl content after receiving DUROGESIC" DTRANS* fentanyl
 100 pg/h and 12.5 pg/h (up to 8 systems). The mean residual fentanyl content
after receiving the 100 pg/h fentanyl patches was 9.34 mg. The mean residual
fentanyl content after receiving up to 8 patches of 12.5 pg/h fentanyl was 1.05
mg.
[00150]         The average fentanyl content for the 100 pg/h and 12.5 pg/h
DUROGESIC* DTRANS* fentanyl systems at lot clearance was 16.3 and 2.0
mg, respectively. Thus, the average amount of fentanyl absorbed based on
the residual fentanyl content is estimated to be 6.96 and 0.95 mg for the 100
pg/h and 12.5 pg/h DTRANSO fentanyl systems, respectively. The utilization is
43% and 48% for the 100 pg/h and 12.5 pg/h dose strength patch,
respectively. Of course, the %-utilization values for the DUROGESIC*
DTRANS® fentanyl systems were values after 3 days of use. The average %
utilization per day of use for the DUROGESIC* DTRANS* fentanyl systems
                                    53

 was only 1/3 of the 3-day values and would be about 12.5% and 16% for the
  100 pg/h and 12.5 pg/h dose strength patch, respectively.
         Example 7:12 days apolication:1-day 32 cm2 Patch vs. 3-day patches
         (100 p/h)
  [00151]       Monolithic transdermal patches according to FIG. 1 were
 prepared comprising about 8 wt% of fentanyl base in a process similar to
  Example I using National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-4287 adhesive for 100 pg/h
 dose strength. The area of a 3-day patch was 42 cm2 and the fentanyl matrix
 layer was about 2 mil (0.05mm=50 pm) thick. Thinner 25 pm, 32 cm2 patches
 were also made for the 1-day use patches for comparison. The 1-day
 patches thus had about 38% of the amount of fentanyl of the 3-day patches.
 [00152]        Such patches were applied to opioid-naTve patients. Subjects
 selected were not dependent on oploids. The patches were tested on 17
 subjects with different periods for patches of different thicknesses. During
 each treatment, the study system was worn for the set period on a new
 application skin site on the application area. For each subject the same area
 of the body was used throughout the study. There was a minimum washout
-period of at least 6 days and not more than 14 days between treatments. The
 washout period was to commence upon removal of the study system. The 3
 day 50 pm patch was worn for 72 hours then removed and replaced with a
 new patch (total of 4 patches). The 1-day 25 pm patch was worn for 24 hours
 then removed and replaced with a new patch (total of 12 patches). Data were
 collected to the 360th hours. The subjects-averaged (N=17) fentanyl
 concentration for both sizes continued to increase even after the 14 41h hour.
 Steady state was reached at or before the 2 16th hour. FIG. 14 shows the
summary of the averaged data (over N=17) on the fentanyl concentration in
the blood of the subjects from the 2 16 th hour to the 2 88 th hour. The curve with
the open circle data points represents the 1-day patches. The curve with the
diamond data points represents the 3-day patches. 'The data show that the
steady state AUC fentanyl concentration in the blood was slightly higher for
the 1-day patches compared with the 3-day patches.
                                   54

       [00153]          Table 2 shows the comparison of the pharmacokinetic
       parameters of the 3-day patches versus those of the 1-day patches. For the
       steady state condition, data were considered from the 2 16 th hour to the 2 8 8th
       hour for a period of 72 hours. AUC, data are presented as geometric mean
       and mean (%CV). CV is standard deviation divided by the mean. Cmax and
       Cmin are presented as mean (%CV).
       [00154]         The AUC, of the 1-day patch (Trt C) was about 1.07 that of the
       3-day patch (Trt A). The Cmax of the 1-day patch was about 0.94 that of the 3
      day patch. The Cmtn of the 1-day patch was about 1.2 that of the 3-day patch.
      Thus, the 1-day patch was bioequivalent to the 3-day patch. In Table 2, a
      striking difference is the fluctuation, defined as (Cmx - Cmin)/Cavg, where in this
      case Cavg= AUCS/72. The fluctuation is the indication of how much the blood
      fentanyl concentration -fluctuates during steady state, expressed in a
      dimensionless number. In the case of the 3-day patch, the swing between
      Cmax and Cmin was almost as large as the average concentration Cavq. In the
      case of the 1-day patch, the fluctuation was only about 64%, substantially
      smaller than that of the 3-day patch. Thus, the 1-day patch provided a more
      steady blood concentration.
      Table 2 Mean (CV%) Pharmacokinetic Parameters
         Treatment AUCss                 Cmax,ss    Cmin,ss       Fluctuation
               ----- ----
                        --- ---     ---------                  --------
                        (ng.h/mL)        (ng/mL)    (ng/mL)       (%)
         Trt A          171(15)          3.6(23)    1.5(15)       90.2 (28)
         3-Day
         Trt C          184(20)          3.4(22)    1.8(16)       63.8(22)
         1-Day
     [00155]          Table 3 shows the statistics of the data of the 3-day patch (Trt
     A) versus those of the 1-day patch (Trt C).
TABLE 3
                                              55

  Parameter           Contrast    -  Ratio (%)    PValue     90% Conf. Interval
                                                            Lower   Upper
AUC(216-288)       Trt C / Trt A    106          0.215      97.81   115.94
Cmin               Trt C / Trt A    120          <0.001     112.85  128.77
Cmax               Trt C / Trt A    94           0.319      85.38  103.58
    [00156]       Thus, the statistics demonstrate that the 90% confidential
    interval of Cm,,, and AUCS, ratios of the 1-day patch to DUROGESIC*
    DTRANS* were within 80% and 125%. Therefore, the 1-day patch is
    bloequivalent to the 3-day patch, DUROGESIC® DTRANS*, 100 pg/h. The
  .32 cm 2 1-day patch contains 6.7 mg fentanyl and the DUROGESIC*
    DTRANS* 100 pg/h patch contains 16.8 mg fentanyl. Therefore, it takes
   three 1-day patches (a total of 20.1 mg fentanyl to deliver an bioequivalent
   amount of fentanyl from a 3-day patch containing 16.8 mg fentanyl, about a
   18.5% difference. From a %-utilization perspective, it is a drop from 43% to
   35%. However, this performance of %-utilization of the 1-day patch is
   reasonably good considering it had only 1/3 the time of the 3-day patch to use
   the fentanyl in the patch compared to'3-day patches. From a %-utilization per
   day perspective, the 1-day patch had a much higher %-utilization than the 3
   day patch. Considering individual patches, the residual fentanyl per patch in
   the 1-day patch is significantly lower than the 3-day patches.
           Example 8: 12 days application:1-day 28 cm 2 Patch vs. 3-day matches
           (100 wq/h)
   [00157]        Monolithic transdermal patches according to FIG. I were
   including comprising about 8 wt% of fentanyl base in a process similar to
   Example 1 using National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-4287 adhesive for 100 pg/h
   dose strength. The area of a 3-day patch was 42 cm2 and the fentanyl matrix
   layer was about 2 mil (0.05mm=50 pm) thick.' Thinner 25 pm, 28 cm 2 patches
  were also made for the 1-day use patches for comparison. The 1-day
   patches thus had about 33% of the amount of fentanyl of the 3-day patches.
   [00158]       Such patches were applied to opioid-naive patients. Subjects
  selected were not dependent on opioids. The patches were tested on 19 to
                                       56

  20 subjects with different periods for patches of different thicknesses. During
  each treatment, the study system was worn for the set period on a new
  application skin site on the application area, For each subject the same area
  of the body was used throughout the study. There was a minimum washout
  period of at least 6 days and not more than 14 days between treatments. The
  washout period was to commence upon removal of the study system. The 3
  day 50 pm patch was worn for 72 hours then removed and replaced with a
  new patch (total of 4 patches). The 1-day 25 pm patch was worn for 24 hours
  then removed and replaced with a new patch (total of 12 patches). Data were
  collected to the 2 60th hour. The subjects-averaged fentanyl concentration for
  both sizes continued to increase even after the 144' hour. Steady state was
 reached at or before the 2 1 6th hour. FIG. 15 shows the summary of the
 averaged data on the fentanyl concentration in the blood of the subjects from
 the 2 16 h hour to the 2 8 8 th hour. The data show that the steady state AUC s
 fentanyl concentration in the blood was close to that for the 1-day patches
 (n=20) compared with the 3-day patches (n=19). One of the 20 subjects was
 not tested with 3-day patches. The diamonds represent the data points for
 the 3-day patches. The open circles represent the data points for the 1-day
 patches. In FIG. 15, although the AUCS, were close for the two types of
 patches, there were four data points (e.g., at 242, 243, 245, 252 hour) that
 had large differences among the individual subjects, thus affecting the
statistical significance of the data.
 [00159]        Table 4A and Table 4B show the comparison of the
pharmacokinetic parameters of the 3-day patches versus those of the 1-day
patches. For the steady state condition, data were considered from the 2 1 6 h
hour to the 288th hour for a period of 72 hours. AUC, data are presented as
geometric mean and mean (%CV). CV is standard deviation divided by the
mean. CmB and Cmin are presented as mean (%CV).
[00160]         Table 4A has data for 19 subjects (N=19) on which both 1-day
patches and 3-day patches were separately applied. Thus, the subject on
whom only 1-day patches were applied (but without separately applying 3-day
patches) was excluded.
                                      57

  TABLE 4A Mean (CV%) Pharmacokinetic Parameters
  Treatment AUCss                Cmaxss          Cminss        Fluctuation
               (ng.h/mL)         (ng/mL)         (ng/mL)       (%)
  Trt A            147(30)          3.0(35)        1.3 (24)       79.3 (30)
  3-Day
 Trt C             149 (62)        6.1 (186)       1.3 (31)      158 (164)
  1-Day
 [00161]        Five of the 19 subjects had outlier data points (i.e., data points
 that differed significantly from neighboring data points). The analysis for
fentanyl metabolite norfentanyl in their samples collected between 2 16 1hand
2 8 8 th hr showed that the metabolite concentrations were stable for all 5
subjects that had outlier data, indicating the outlier data for 5 subjects were
not due to transdermal fentanyl transport, The large fluctuation was likely due
to contamination in certain samples of 5 subjects that were analyzed. For
example, FIG. 16 shows the serum concentration of fentanyl and norfentanyl
of an exemplary subject who had outlier data. Curve F with the diamond data
points represents the 1-day patch fentanyl data, whereas curve NOR with the
open circle data points represents the norfentanyl data of the same patch
delivery. Some of the data points after 240 hours had wide variations in
fentanyl concentration whereas the metabolite norfentanyl concentration was
stable for the same time period. It is physically impossible for the serum
fentanyl concentration to fluctuate so widely and so rapidly by transdermal
delivery. Thus, at that period, the norfentanyl concentration was a better
indicator of the variation of the amount of fentany delivered, Table 4B shows
the data of Table 4A after the exclusion of data from subjects having outlier
numbers. The number of subjects in Table 4B is 14 (N=14).
                                    58

  TABLE 4B Mean (CV%) Pharmacokinetic Parameters
  Treatment      AUCss             Cmaxss        Cminss          Fluctuation
     ---------    ---                                           ---------
                 (ng.h/mL)         (ng/mL)       (ng/mL)        (%)
 Trt A                147 (33)        3.0 (39)       1.3 (25)      75(33)
  3-Day
 Trt C                132 (30)        2.6 (33)      1.3 (32)        0 (38)
  1-Day
 [001621       Table 4B shows that the AUC (shown by AUC(21o-2ea) from the
 2161 hour to the 2 18th hour) of the 1-day patch was about 0.9 that of the 3
 day patch based on the geometric mean data. The geometric mean of the
 Cmax of the 1-day patch was about 0.9 that of the 3-day patch. The geometric
 mean Cmin of the 1-day patch was about 1.0 that of the 3-day patch. The
 amount of fluctuation (in %) was about 70 for the 1-day patch versus about 75
for the 3-day patch. If only Table 4B is considered, because the AUCe,, Cm,
and Cmin were close between the 1-day patch and the 3-day patch in Table
4B, the 1-day patches can be considered to be bioequivalent to the 3-day
patch. From the Table 4B data, the 1-day 28 cm2 patch provided a
bioequivalent amount of fentanyl to the body as DUROGESIC" DTRANS®
100 pg/h. The amount of fentanyl in each 28 cm2 patch is about 5.9 mg.
Therefore, it takes total 17.7 mg (3x5.9) fentanyl in 1-day patch to deliver the
same amount of fentanyl as 16.8 mg of fentanyl in a DUROGESIC*
DTRANS* 100 pg/h patch. The utilization for a 1-day 28 cm2 patch after use
was estimated to be 39%, which was only slightly below that of the 43% for
the DUROGESIC* DTRANS* 100 pg/h patch.             However, the utilization per
day was significantly higher in the 1-day patch.
[00163]        The practice of the present invention will employ, unless
otherwise indicated, conventional methods used by those in pharmaceutical
product development within those of skill of the art. Such techniques are
explained fully in the literature.
                                    59

 [00164]       The above-described exemplary embodiments are intended to
be illustrative in all respects, rather than restrictive, of the present invention.
Thus the present invention is capable of many variations in detailed
implementation that can be derived from the description contained herein by a
person skilled in the art. All such variations and modifications are considered
to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                    60

 What we claim is:
          1.     A kit for administering a drug with a transdermal patch, comprising:
         (a) a transdermal patch for administration of fentanyl through the skin,
 comprising:
                 a backing layer;
                 a reservoir disposed on the backing layer, at least the skin contacting
         surface of the reservoir being adhesive; the reservoir comprising a polymeric
         composition containing an amount of fentanyl thereof sufficient to induce and
         maintain analgesia in a human for one day, wherein daily replacement
         application of one patch on the skin achieves a steady state plasma level
         effective for analgesia; and
         (b) an instruction print including instruction on daily replacement of the
transdermal patch.
         2.      The kit of claim 1 wherein the polymeric composition contains
polyacrylate and the utilization of the drug in the patch is at least 30 wt% after one
day of use.
         3.     The kit of claim 2 wherein the drug is fentanyl base and the reservoir is
formed from an adhesive polymer that consists essentially of polyacrylate, and the
utilization of the drug in the patch is at least 35 wt% after one day of use.
         4.     The kit of claim 3 wherein the patch exhibits a normalized Cmx of 15 to
60 ng/ml(mg/h) and a normalized Cmn of 10 to 55 ng/ml(mg/h) at steady state.
         5.     The kit of claim 4 wherein the patch exhibits a steady state drug flux of
0.1 to 20 pg/cm 2h.
         6.     The kit of claim 3 wherein the patch exhibits an AUC, 15 ng-h/ml to
200 ng-h/ml at steady state.
         7.     The kit of claim 6 wherein the patch exhibits a steady state drug flux of
0.1 to 20 pg/(cm 2h).
                                             61

        8.      The kit of claim 2 wherein the reservoir comprises an amount of
 dissolved fentanyl base at a concentration of from 0.14 to 0.3 mg/cm 2 .
        9.      The kit of claim 1 wherein the patch has an area normalized to dose
strength of 8.5 to 16.5 cm2 per mg fentanyl nominally for 1-day delivery.
        10.     The kit of claim 8 wherein the reservoir comprises a polymer having a
solubility for fentanyl base of 1 wt% to 25 wt% and wherein the reservoir has residual
fentanyl base of less than 70 wt% in one day of use.
        11.     The kit of claim 8 wherein the reservoir comprises from 0.14 to 0.3
mg/cm 2    of fentanyl base per area of the reservoir and the patch has an area
normalized to dose strength of 10.5 to 15 cm2 per mg fentanyl nominally for 1-day
delivery.
        12. The kit of claim 8 wherein the reservoir has a thickness of 0.0125 mm
(0.5 mil) to 0.0375 mm (1.5mil).
        13.     The kit of claim 12 wherein the reservoir further comprises an
enhancer.
        14. The kit of claim 3 wherein there is only one adhesive or matrix layer in
the transdermal patch and the reservoir contains no enhancer.
        15.     The kit of claim 3 wherein the backing layer comprises a polymer
selected from at least one of the following: polyurethane, polyvinyl acetate,
polyvinylidene chloride, polyethylene, polyethylene terephthalate (PET), PET
polyolefin laminates, and polybutylene terephthalate.
        16.     The kit of claim 3 wherein the backing layer has a thickness of 0.012
mm (0.5 mil) to 0.125 mm (5 mil).
        17. The kit of claim 3 wherein by applying two patches on a first day and
subsequently one patch for each subsequent day results within one day a steady
                                          62

  state normalized Cmn of 16 to 60 ng/ml(mg/h) and a normalized Cmin of 10
  ng/ml(mg/h) to 55 ng/ml(mg/h).
          18.   The kit of claim 3 wherein by applying one patch on a first day and
 subsequently one patch for each subsequent day results within 3 days a normalized
 Cma of 15 to 60 ng/ml(mg/h) and a normalized Cmin of             10 ng/ml(mg/h) to 55
 ng/ml(mg/h).
          19.   The kit of claim 18 wherein the patch exhibits a steady state
 (normalized Cmx - normalized Cmin ) difference of 0. 5 ng/ml(mg/h) to 2 ng/ml(mg/h).
         20.    The kit of claim 19 wherein the patch exhibits a normalized Cmax of 0.01
 to 0.2 ng/ml-cm 2 after a single application of the patch.
         21.   The kit of claim 19 wherein the patch exhibits a steady state drug flux
 of 1 to 10 pg/cm 2 h.
         22.   The kit of claim 17 wherein fentanyl has a solubility of 7 wt% to 12 wt%
 in the reservoir.
         23,   The kit of claim 3 wherein the reservoir is a matrix reservoir having a
polyacrylate matrix, the polyacrylate .having 5-10 wt% 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate
monomer, 20-40 wt% vinyl acetate, and 55-75 wt% 2-ethylhexyl acrylate.
         24.   The kit of claim 3 wherein the reservoir is a matrix reservoir having a
polyacrylate matrix which is National Starch DURO-TAK* 87-4287 adhesive.
         25.   A transdermal patch for administering fentanyl, comprising an adhesive
fentanyl reservoir on a backing layer, the reservoir comprising a polymeric
composition and fentanyl effective to induce and maintain analgesia in a human for
one day, wherein daily replacement application on the skin achieves a steady state
normalized Cm of 15 to 60 ng/ml(mg/h) and normalized Cmin of 2 to 60 ng/ml(mg/h),
wherein the reservoir has a thickness of from 0.0125 mm (0.5 mil) to 0.0375 mm (1.5
                                           63

mil) and the patch has a utilization of the fentanyl pf at least 35 wt% after one day of
 use.
         26. A method of administering fentanyl base to a human in need thereof,
comprising replacing one monolithic transdermal patch daily on the skin such that
steady state delivery is effective for maintaining analgesia, wherein the patch
contains a backing and a reservoir comprising a polymeric composition containing
polyacrylate and fentanyl base.
         27. The method of claim 26 wherein in daily replacement the patch has a
utilization of the fentanyl base of at least 36 wt% after one day of use.
         28.    The method of claim 26 further comprising determining that the human
is opioid naive and applying only one patch at first and daily replacement of one
patch.
         29.    The method of claim 26 further comprising determining that the human
is opiold naive and applying one patch at first and daily applying a new patch to
replace a day-old patch such that a fentanyl level in plasma is at a steady state
range in two days.
         30.    The method of claim 26 further comprising determining that the human
is opioid tolerant on day one of patch application and applying two patches at first
and daily applying a new patch to replace a day-old patch starting from day two,
such that a fentanyl level in plasma is effective for analgesia in one day.
         31.    The method of claim 26 further comprising determining that according
to the human's medical record that the human is opioid tolerant at first of patch
application and applying two patches at first and daily applying a new patch to
replace a day-old patch starting from day two, such that a fentanyl level in plasma is
effective for analgesia within one day.
         32.    The method of claim 26 where the patch exhibIts a normalized Cm, of
15 to 60 ng/ml(mg/h) and a normalized Cmin of 10 to 55 ng/ml(mg/h) at steady state.
                                           64

         33.    The method of claim 26 wherein the patch exhibits a steady state drug
 flux of 0.1 to 20 pg/(cm 2 h).
         34.    The method of claim 26 wherein the patch exhibits a steady state
 (normalized Cmax - normalized Cmin ) difference of 0.5 ng/ml(mg/h) to 2 ng/ml(mg/h).
         36.    The method of claim 26 wherein the patch exhibits a steady state drug
 flux of 0.1 to 20 pg/(cm 2h) and the reservoir has a thickness of 0.0125 mm (0.5 mil)
 to 0.0375mm (1.5mil).
         36.    The method of claim 26 wherein the reservoir comprises an amount of
 dissolved fentanyl at a concentration of from 20 mg/gm to 200 mg/gm.
         37.    The method of claim 26 wherein the reservoir comprises a polymer
 having a solubility for fentanyl base of 1 wt% to 25 wt%.
         38.    The method of claim 26 wherein the reservoir comprises 0.14 to 0.3
 mg/cm 2   of fentanyl base per area of the reservoir and the patch has an area
 normalized to dose strength of 10.5 to 15 cm2 per mg fentanyl nominally for 1-day
delivery.
        39.     The method of claim 26 wherein the reservoir has a thickness of from
0.0125 mm (0.5 mil) to 0.0375 mm (1.5 mil).
        40.     The method of claim 26 wherein the reservoir has residual fentanyl
base of less than 30 wt% after one day of use.
        41.     Use of fentanyl base in the preparation of a transdermal patch for
administering fentanyl to a human in need thereof for analgesia, wherein the
transdermal patch comprises a fentanyl reservoir on a backing layer, the reservoir
comprising a polymeric composition comprising polyacrylate and a fentanyl base to
induce and maintain analgesia in a human for one patch per day use, wherein daily
replacement application on the skin achieves steady state normalized Cmax of 15 to
                                           65

60 nglml-(mg/h) and normalized Cmin of 10 to 55 ng/ml-(mg/h) wherein the fentanyl
base has a solubility of at least 4 wt% in the reservoir; the reservoir having a
thickness of 0.0125 mm (0.5 mil) to 0.0375 mm (1.5 mil); the utilization of the
fentanyl base in the patch is at least 35 wt% after one day of use.
                                          66

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
