         1/2
             'I
            0r
0  IE3
  By
   -- -- -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -

            ABSTRACT
            A monitoring and shutdown device for a solar photovoltaic (PV) module
   (20) has a control switch (11), a micro control unit (MCU) (10), a voltage
   acquisition unit (13), a temperature acquisition unit (14) and a power line
 5 communication (PLC) module (15).       The control switch (11) connects to a
   power series circuit of the PV module. Output terminals of the voltage
   acquisition unit (13) and the temperature acquisition unit (14) connect to the
   MCU. The voltage acquisition unit (13) and the PLC module (20) connect to the
   power series circuit. The MCU (10) connects to the control switch (11), and
10 determines whether over-voltage or over-temperature occurs to the PV module
   (20) by the voltage and temperature acquisition units (13, 14). For abnormal
   conditions, the MCU (10) sends a notification through the PLC module (15), and
   disconnects the PV module (20) from the power series circuit by the control
   switch (11).

                                              1
            MONITORING AND SHUTDOWN DEVICE FOR A SOLAR
                              PHOTOVOLTAIC MODULE
   1. Field of the Utility model
             The utility model relates to a monitoring and shutdown device and, in
 5 particular, to a monitoring and shutdown device for a solar photovoltaic (PV)
   module to perform real-time monitoring of the voltage and temperature of the
   solar PV module. The monitoring and shutdown device uses power line
   communication to send out monitoring information, and actively sends a
   command or receives a remote command to shut down the solar PV module.
10 2. Description of Related Art
             As a power generation device, photovoltaic (PV) modules may be
   irregularly shielded by tree branches and buildings in the natural environment
   during practical use, causing the PV modules to generate heat. When the light
   intensity is too strong, the current or temperature may exceed the limit. If the
15 photovoltaic (PV) modules are not shut down in time, the heat will produce hot
   spots and even lead to fire. Moreover, the output voltage of a single PV module
   is relatively low, but the total voltage of multiple PV modules that have been
   connected in series could be far beyond a safe voltage. Once a problem occurs, it
   is fatal, especially when the PV modules are on fire. As the voltage of the PV
20 modules in series adds up, a fire protection system may not function well. In
   addition, there are still other problems in the safety measures of the PV modules:
             1. At present, the monitoring is at the combiner box level, not the actual
   condition of each PV module.
             2. When an abnormal condition occurs, one can only shut down all the

                                              2
   PV modules connected in the series. The PV modules still have voltage output
   after being cut off, still causing potential risks.
            3. Maintenance personnel need to go to the disordered site and manually
   cut off the circuit.
 5          4. The control device of a monitoring product for the PV modules
   requires a separate power supply. In this case, the wiring costs higher.
            5. After collecting related information parameters, the monitoring
   product must communicate with a monitoring end in a wired or wireless way.
   However, the wired communication requires additional wiring and costs higher.
10 The wireless communication is restricted by the industrial scientific medical
   (ISM) band to its limited spectrum. At the same time, the wireless signal is easy
   to be interfered and has high bit error rate.
            Since the PV modules have a high safety standard, such as UL and IEC,
   the voltage of the PV modules in series must be pulled to a safe value within a
15 short time.
            It is seen from the above that the existing monitoring technique of the
   PV modules still needs to be improved.
            An objective of the utility model is to provide a monitoring and
   shutdown device for a PV module. The monitoring and shutdown device
20 performs real-time monitoring of the voltage and temperature of the solar PV
   module, uses power line communication to send out monitoring information, and,
   when the detected voltage or temperature is abnormal, actively sends a command
   or receives a remote command to shut down the PV module.
            The disclosed monitoring and shutdown device for a PV module

                                            3
   includes:
            a control switch;
            a micro control unit having a plurality of input/output (I/O) terminals;
            a driver module connected between one of the I/O terminals of the micro
 5 control unit and the control switch;
            a voltage acquisition unit having a set of input terminals and an output
   terminal connecting to one of the I/O terminals of the micro control unit;
            a temperature acquisition unit having a temperature output terminal
   connecting to one of the I/O terminals of the micro control unit; and
10          a power line communication (PLC) module having a power line
   connection terminal and an information transmission terminal connected to one
   of the I/O terminals of the micro control unit.
            The control switch, the voltage acquisition unit, and the PLC module are
   connected to the power series circuit of a PV. The control switch is normally in a
15 connected state. The micro control unit uses the driver module to turn on and off
   the control switch. The voltage acquisition unit detects the output voltage of the
   connected PV module in real time, and sends the detected voltage information to
   the micro control unit. When the output voltage of the PV module is abnormal,
   the micro control unit uses the PLC module to communicate with a system
20 terminal. Moreover, the micro control unit actively sends a command or follows
   a command output from the system terminal to control the driver module to shut
   down the PV module. Thus, a total voltage of the connected PV modules is
   pulled down to a safe value within a short time, ensuring the system safety.
            Since the monitoring and shutdown device utilizes power line

                                              4
   communication to communicate with the remote system terminal, there is no
   need to set up another wired or wireless network. This solves the problems of
   high cost of the wired communication and limited spectrum of the wireless
   network due to the ISM band.
 5          These and other features, aspects and advantages of the utility model
   will become apparent by reference to the following description and
   accompanying drawings which are given by way of illustration only, and thus are
   not limitative of the utility model, and wherein:
            FIG. 1 is a block diagram of the utility model; and
10          FIG. 2 is a system block diagram of the utility model.
            With reference to FIG. 1, a monitoring and shutdown device is used with
   a PV module 20. The PV module 20 has a positive output terminal and a
   negative output terminal. When multiple PV modules 20 are connected via their
   positive and negative output terminals in series, a power series circuit is formed
15 by the PV modules 20. The monitoring and shutdown device includes a micro
   control unit 10, a control switch 11, a driver module 12, a voltage acquisition unit
   13, a temperature acquisition unit 14, and a power line communication (PLC)
   module 15.
            The micro control unit 10 provides an operating function and has several
20 I/O terminals connecting respectively to the driver module 12, the voltage
   acquisition unit 13, the temperature acquisition unit 14, and the PLC module 15.
   The micro control unit 10 can be implemented by a microcontroller of the STM
   or MCS-51 series.
            The control switch 11 has a positive input terminal, a negative input

                                            5
   terminal, a positive output terminal, a negative output terminal, and a controlled
   terminal. The positive and negative input terminals of the control switch 11 are
   connected to the positive and negative output terminals of the PV module 20.
   The positive and negative output terminals of the control switch 11 are
 5 connected to the power series circuit. Normally, the control switch 11 is
   conductive. That is, the PV module 20 is normally connected to the power series
   circuit. When the control switch 11 shuts off, the PV module 20 is disconnected
   from the power series circuit, or the power series circuit will be interrupted. In
   this embodiment, the on and off of the control switch 11 is controlled by the
10 micro control unit10 via the driver module 12. Therefore, the driver module 12
   is connected between one of the I/O terminals of the micro control unit 10 and the
   controlled terminal of the control switch 11.
            The voltage acquisition unit 13 has a set of input terminals and an output
   terminal. In this embodiment, the set of input terminals is connected to the PV
15 module 20 to detect the output voltage of the PV module 20. The input terminals
   of the voltage acquisition unit 13 are connected to the positive and negative
   output terminals of the control switch 11 to detect the output voltage of the PV
   module 20 via the control switch 11. The output terminal of the voltage
   acquisition unit 13 connects to the micro control unit 10 to send the detected
20 voltage to the micro control unit 10.
            The temperature acquisition unit 14 is implemented by a temperature
   sensor with a temperature output terminal connecting to one of the I/O terminals
   of the micro control unit 10. The temperature acquisition unit 14 detects the
   temperature of the PV module 20, thereby monitoring high temperature possibly

                                            6
   generated by serious hot spots of the PV module 20. The detected temperature is
   sent to the micro control unit 10.
            The PLC module 15 is a power line communication device that has an
   information transmission terminal and power line connection terminals. The
 5 information transmission terminal connects to one of the I/O terminals of the
   micro control unit 10. The power line connection terminals connect to the power
   series circuit of the PV module 20. In this embodiment, the power line
   connection terminals of the PLC module 15 connect to the positive and negative
   output terminals of the control switch 11.
10          The working power of the monitoring and shutdown device comes from
   the connected PV modules 20. There is no need to provide a separate power
   supply system. In order to use the output power of the PV module 20 as the
   working power, the monitoring and shutdown device further includes a DC/DC
   conversion unit 16. The DC/DC conversion unit 16 has a set of module power
15 connection terminals and a power output terminal. The set of module power
   connection terminals connects to the positive and negative power terminals of
   the PV module 20. The power output terminal connects to the micro control unit
   10. Therefore, the DC/DC conversion unit 16 obtains its power from the PV
   module 20. After DC to DC voltage conversion and stabilization, stable DC
20 working power is supplied to the micro control unit 10. Since no additional
   power supply is required, the device reliability becomes higher.
            The explicit structure of an embodiment of the utility model is described
   above. The application of the same is described below with reference to FIG. 2.
            In a solar energy power supply system, multiple PV modules 20 are

                                            7
   connected in series to form a power series circuit. Each of the PV modules 20 is
   connected with a monitoring and shutdown device. The monitoring and
   shutdown device of each of the PV modules 20 is connected to the power series
   circuit via the control switch 11 and the PLC module 15. When the voltage or
 5 temperature of the PV module 20 becomes abnormal, the control switch 11
   makes the PV module 20 disconnect from the power series circuit, or interrupts
   the power series circuit. The PLC module 15 uses power line communication to
   communicate with a system terminal 30. To use the power line to communicate
   with each of the monitoring and shutdown devices, the system terminal 30 uses a
10 demodulator 40 to connect with the power series circuit. The demodulator 40
   receives and demodulates the carrier waves modulated by the monitoring and
   shutdown devices and sent to the power series circuit, and then sends the
   demodulated carrier waves to the system terminal 30.
            The connection between the system terminal 30 and the demodulator 40
15 can be wired or wireless. The demodulator 40 can further connect a current
   acquisition unit 50 and a power supply unit 60. The current acquisition unit 50
   and the power series circuit are connected to detect a circuit current. The
   acquired information of the circuit current is transmitted by the demodulator 40
   to the system terminal 30. The power supply unit 60 supplies the working power
20 required by the demodulator 40.
            According to the above-mentioned connections, the system terminal 30
   and each of the monitoring and shutdown devices on the power series circuit
   form a master-slave architecture. That is, each of the monitoring and shutdown
   devices is a slave device that uses the control switch 11 thereof to collect the

                                             8
   voltage and temperature information of the PV module 20. Through the power
   series circuit, the information is transmitted via PLC to the system terminal 30.
   The system terminal 30 is a master device. According to the voltage and
   temperature data transmitted from the monitoring and shutdown devices, the
 5 system terminal 30 determines whether the voltage or temperature is abnormal.
   When an abnormal condition occurs, a shutdown command is sent out via the
   power series circuit to shut down a specific PV module 20. There is no need to
   send a maintenance personnel to the site to manually shut down the specific PV
   module 20.
10          While the utility model has been described by way of example and in
   terms of the preferred embodiment, it is to be understood that the utility model is
   not limited to the disclosed embodiments. To the contrary, it is intended to cover
   various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those
   skilled in the art. Therefore, the scope of the appended claims should be
15 accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications
   and similar arrangements.

                                              9
   The claims defining the utility model are as followings:
            1. A monitoring and shutdown device for a solar photovoltaic (PV)
   module, comprising:
            a control switch;
 5          a micro control unit having a plurality of input/output (I/O) terminals;
            a driver module connected between one of the I/O terminals of the micro
   control unit and the control switch;
            a voltage acquisition unit having a set of input terminals and an output
   terminal, with the output terminal thereof connecting to one of the I/O terminals
10 of the micro control unit;
            a temperature acquisition unit having a temperature output terminal
   connecting to one of the I/O terminals of the micro control unit; and
            a power line communication (PLC) module having power line
   connection terminals and an information transmission terminal, with the
15 information transmission terminal connecting to one of the I/O terminals of the
   micro control unit.
            2. The monitoring and shutdown device for a solar PV module according
   to claim 1, wherein
            the control switch has a positive output terminal and a negative output
20 terminal;
            the set of input terminals of the voltage acquisition unit are connected to
   the positive output terminal and the negative output terminal of the control
   switch; and
            the power line connection terminals of the PLC module is connected to

                                             10
   the positive output terminal and the negative output terminal of the control
   switch.
             3. The monitoring and shutdown device for a solar PV module according
   to claim 1, wherein the control switch has a controlled terminal connected to the
 5 driver module.
             4. The monitoring and shutdown device for a solar PV module according
   to claim 2, wherein
             the control switch has a positive input terminal and a negative input
   terminal both being connected respectively to a positive output terminal and a
10 negative output terminal of a respective PV module; and
             the PLC module is connected via the respective PV module with other
   PV modules in series to form a power series circuit, and the power series circuit
   is connected with a demodulator that is further connected to a system terminal.
             5. The monitoring and shutdown device for a solar PV module according
15 to claim 4, wherein the demodulator is connected with a current acquisition unit
   that is in connection with the power series circuit; and
             the micro control unit is connected with a DC/DC conversion unit that
   has a set of module power connection terminals and a power output terminal,
   with the power output terminal connected with the micro control unit.
20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
