Abstract
Provided are compounds, compositions and methods for improving resistance to skeletal
muscle fatigue comprising administering an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin
activator. Also provided are methods for improving resistance to fatigue, improving physical
endurance, or reducing exercise intolerance in a subject suffering from a condition
associated with muscle fatigue or weakness, such as heart failure.

                                                -1
     METHODS FOR IMPROVING RESISTANCE TO SKELETAL MUSCLE FATIGUE
[0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Application Nos. 61/623,003, filed
4/11/2012, 61/646,842, filed 5/14/2012, 61/693,061, filed 8/24/2012, and 61/735,809, filed
12/11/2012, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. This is a divisional
of Australian Patent Application No. 2013245917, the entire contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0002]     Muscle fatigue is often defined as a reversible decline of force production during
activity. Muscle fatigue consists of a complex interplay between central and peripheral
fatigue. The extent of peripheral muscle fatigue is dependent on several factors including
muscle fiber type and stimulation frequency. Tetanic force often declines a small amount
soon after muscle stimulation begins, then force declines slowly and finally there is a rapid
decline to a fraction of initial force. In various human studies, fatigue appears to be only
partially influenced by inadequate action potentials or inadequate voltage-sensor
activation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), but rather due to metabolic changes within
the muscle fibers that alter contractile function. Thus, during increased muscle function,
muscle temperature rises, intracellular pH drops, inorganic phosphate (Pi) and ADP
concentrations rise due to breakdown of ATP and creatine phosphate, and concentrations
of reactive oxygen species (ROS) rise. Each of these factors decrease fast-twitch skeletal
muscle stimulated tension, contraction velocity and power.
[0003]     Intracellular Pi and protons (H+) directly inhibit muscle cross-bridge force and,
importantly, shift the force-pCa relationship to the right. The decreased force-pCa
relationship means that higher free intracellular Ca 2 , concentrations are required to elicit a
given tension. Elevated ROS also reduce Ca 2 , sensitivity of fast skeletal muscle
myofibrils and play a role in the phenomenon of fatigue. During initiation of muscle
contraction, the concentration of Ca 2 ' remains high and peak force is not altered by the
decreased calcium sensitivity. As muscle contraction continues, Ca2 , transients drop and,
because of the diminished Ca 2, sensitivity induced by Pi and H' (and possibly ROS), force
declines. This is the phenomenon of peripheral fatigue. (Allen D.G. et al. Physiol Rev 88:
287-332, 2008; Fitts, JAppl Physiol 104:551-558, 2008; Allen, Appl Physiol. 2011
Aug;1 11(2):358-66).
[0004]     In addition to peripheral fatigue involving changes at or distal to the
neuromuscular junction described above, muscle fatigue can also be influenced by central
fatigue (S. C. Gandevia, Phsyiol. Rev., 81: 1726-1788, 2001). Central fatigue can be

                                             -2
described as a progressive reduction in voluntary activation of muscle during exercise and
involves a conscious sensation of fatigue and perception of effort. This perception of
effort has been associated with various somatosensory signals, emotional state,
discomfort, pain, thermal stress and thirst (Noakes et al. Br J Sports Med. August; 38(4):
511-514, 2004, J.W. Williamson, Exp Physiol 95: 1043-1048, 2010). This integrated
mechanism works to preserve the integrity of the system by initiating muscle fatigue
through inhibition of muscle recruitment, and as a result, maximal voluntary strength can
be below the true maximal muscle force. Alteration in perceived effort, as is possible in
the presence of a skeletal troponin activator, can mitigate fatigue.
[0005]    The means to decrease fatigue in certain situations has therapeutic potential,
especially in a number of disease settings, including heart failure. Muscle function can
become compromised in disease by many mechanisms. Accordingly, there is a need for
the development of new compounds that modulate skeletal muscle contractility and of
new methods for improving resistance to skeletal muscle fatigue.
Summary
[0006]    Provided are compounds, compositions and methods for improving resistance to
skeletal muscle fatigue. In some embodiments, the method comprises administering to a
subject an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator. In some
embodiments, the skeletal muscle fatigue is selected from central fatigue, peripheral
fatigue, and a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin
activator is a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator. In some embodiments, the subject is
suffering from a condition selected from peripheral artery disease, claudication, and
muscle ischemia.
[0007]    Also provided are methods for improving physical endurance or reducing
exercise intolerance in a subject, comprising administering to the subject an effective
amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0008]    Also provided are methods of improving resistance to fatigue in a skeletal
muscle, comprising contacting the skeletal muscle with a skeletal muscle troponin
activator, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator increases submaximal tension in
the skeletal muscle.
[0009]    Also provided are methods of improving resistance to fatigue in a skeletal
muscle, comprising contacting the skeletal muscle with a skeletal muscle troponin

                                               -3
activator, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator reduces the intracellular calcium
required by the skeletal muscle to generate force.
[0010]     Also provided are methods for improving resistance to fatigue in a patient
suffering from heart failure, comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of
a skeletal muscle troponin activator. In some embodiments, the method comprises
administering to a subject an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator. In
some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a fast skeletal muscle
troponin activator. Similarly, the compounds, compositions and methods described and/or
disclosed herein may be used to improve exercise tolerance.
[0011]     Also provided are methods for treating exercise intolerance associated with heart
failure in a subject, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a
skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0012]     Also provided are methods for improving physical endurance of a patient
suffering from heart failure, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of
a skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0013]     Also provided are methods for increasing the function, activity, efficiency,
sensitivity to calcium, or time to fatigue of skeletal muscle of a patient suffering from heart
failure, comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of a skeletal muscle
troponin activator.
[0014]     Also provided are methods for improving skeletal muscle function of a patient
suffering from heart failure, comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of
a skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0015]     Also provided are methods for improving resistance to skeletal muscle fatigue in
a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a
skeletal muscle troponin activator, wherein the improvement in resistance to fatigue in the
subject is determined by a bilateral heel-raise test. In some embodiments, the bilateral
heel-raise test comprises: instructing the subject to perform heel raises at regular
intervals; and measuring one or more parameters selected from time to claudication
onset, number of heel raises to claudication onset, work to claudication onset, time to
maximal claudication fatigue, number of heel raises to maximal claudication fatigue, and
work to maximal claudication fatigue, wherein an increase in one or more of the
parameters indicates an improvement in resistance to fatigue in the subject.

                                                  -4
[0016]     Also provided are methods for determining the efficacy of a skeletal muscle
troponin activator in improving resistance to skeletal muscle fatigue in a subject,
comprising administering to the subject a bilateral heel-raise test.
[0017]     In some embodiments of any of the methods described herein, the skeletal
muscle troponin activator is a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator. In some
embodiments, the fast skeletal muscle activator selectively activates fast skeletal muscle.
[0018]     In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of
Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b), VI, VIl(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b),
XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d), XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I),
XII(m), XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, as defined herein.
[0019]     In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of
Formula A or B, as defined herein.
[0020]     Other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from
the following detailed description.
Brief Description of the Figures
[0021]     FIG. 1 is a graph showing the effect of the skeletal muscle troponin activator
Compound A on sub-maximal force development in a rat flexor digitorum brevis muscle in
vitro.
[0022]     FIG. 2 is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on fatigue in a rat flexor
digitorum brevis muscle in vitro.
[0023]     FIG. 3 is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on relaxation time in a rat
flexor digitorum brevis muscle in vitro. The upper plot is for relaxation time and the lower
plot is for force.
[0024]     FIG. 4 is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on fatigue in a rat extensor
digitorum longus muscle in situ. The upper line is for Compound A and the lower line is
for vehicle.
[0025]     FIG. 5 is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on time to fatigue in a rat
flexor digitorum brevis muscle after femoral artery ligation in vitro. The lower plot is for
FAL; the middle plot is for FAL + < 0.5 mg/kg Compound A; the upper plot is for FAL + 1
mg/kg Compound A.
[0026]     FIG. 6A is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on the isometric force
frequency relationship in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ.

                                               -5
[0027]     FIG. 6B is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on the isokinetic force
frequency relationship in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ.
[0028]     FIG. 6C is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on the force-velocity
relationship in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ.
[0029]     FIG. 6D is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on the power output in a
rat plantorflexor muscle in situ.
[0030]     FIG. 6E is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on force generation during
an isokinetic fatigue protocol in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ. The upper plot is for
vehicle; the lower plot is for Compound A (3 mg/kg)
[0031]     FIG. 7A is a graph showing the effect of the skeletal muscle troponin activator
Compound B on the isometric force-frequency relationship in a rat plantorflexor muscle in
situ. At each frequency, the bar on the left is for vehicle and the bar on the right is for
Compound B.
[0032]     FIG. 7B is a graph showing the effect of Compound B on the isokinetic force
frequency relationship in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ. At each frequency, the bar on
the left is for vehicle and the bar on the right is for Compound B.
[0033]     FIG. 7C is a graph showing the effect of Compound B on the force-velocity
relationship in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ.
[0034]     FIG. 7D is a graph showing the effect of Compound B on the power output in a
rat plantorflexor muscle in situ.
[0035]     FIG. 7E is a graph showing the effect of Compound B on force generation during
an isokinetic fatigue protocol in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ. The upper plot is for
Compound B; the lower plot is for vehicle.
[0036]     FIG. 7F is a graph showing the effect of Compound B on force generation during
an isokinetic fatigue protocol at a stimulation frequency calculated to provide 50% of
maximum kinetic tension in a rat plantorflexor muscle in situ.
[0037]     FIG. 8 is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on grid hang time
endurance in healthy rats.
[0038]     FIG. 9 is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on rotarod running
endurance in healthy rats.
[0039] FIG. 10A is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on treadmill running time
in healthy rats..
[0040]     FIG. 10B is a graph showing the effect of Compound A on treadmill running
distance in healthy rats.

                                                -6
[0041]     FIG. 11 depicts the lateral aspect of the ankle on the dominant leg instrumented
with an electro-mechanical goniometer to assess ankle angle position and range of motion
in the bilateral heel test.
[0042]     FIG. 12 is a graph showing the mean plasma concentrations of Compound A in
human subjects over time. Mean plasma Compound A concentrations showed relatively
dose proportional increases. The top plot is for 750 mg; the middle plot is for 500 mg; the
lower plot is for 375 mg. The plot for 0 mg is falls between the middle and lower plots.
[0043]     FIG. 13A shows graphs depicting the clinical time-to-endpoint results of a heel
raise test in human subjects.
[0044]     FIG. 13B shows graphs depicting the clinical repititions-to-endpoint results of a
heel raise test in human subjects.
[0045]     FIG. 13C shows graphs depicting the clinical timorke-to-endpoint results of a
heel raise test in human subjects.
[0046]     FIG. 14 shows graphs depicting the relationship of pharmacodynamic measures
to plasma Compound A concentrations in a heel raise test in human subjects. The PK/PD
analysis shows a strong relationship between Compound A plasma concentrations and
outcomes.
[0047]     FIG. 15A is a graph showing the results of a 6-minute walk test with placebo
corrected change from baseline by Compound A dose.
[0048]     FIG. 15B is a graph showing the results of the 6-minute walk test with placebo
corrected change from baseline by Compound A plasma concentration.
[0049]     FIG. 16 shows the effect of Compound C on running time in a fatigue-rotarod test
in healthy rats.
[0050]     FIG. 17 shows the percent fractional shortening determined by echocardiography
in a rat model of heart failure (ligation of left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery).
[0051]     FIG. 18 shows the effect of Compound C in on running time in a fatigue-rotarod
test in an LAD rat model of heart failure.
[0052]     FIG. 19 shows the effect that Compound C has on the force-frequency
relationship for skinned soleus muscle fibers in sham rats (top panel) and LAD rats
(bottom panel).
[0053]     FIG. 20 shows the effect that treatment with Compound C or vehicle has on the
force-frequency relationship for skinned soleus muscle fibers in sham rats (left panels)
and LAD rats (right panels) versus baseline.

                                             -7
[0054]    FIG. 21 shows the change in force-frequency response between baseline and
subsequent treatment with Compound C in sham (top panel) and LAD (bottom panel) rats.
[0055]    FIG. 22 shows the effect of Compound C on the relationship between force and
Ca 2, concentration for skinned extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle fiber from sham
and LAD rats. The plots on the left are for sham + 3 pM Compound C and for LAD + 3 pM
Compound C. The plots on the right are for sham and for LAD.
[0056]    FIG. 23 shows the effect of Compound C on the relationship between force and
Ca 2, concentration for skinned diaphragm muscle fiber from sham and LAD rats. The
plots on the left are for sham + 3 pM Compound C and for LAD + 3 pM Compound C.
The plots on the right are for sham and for LAD.
[0057]    FIG. 24 shows the baseline force-frequency relationship on diaphragm muscle
fibers from sham and LAD rats.
[0058]    FIG. 25 shows the effect of Compound C on the force-frequency relationship on
diaphragm muscle fibers from sham (top panel) and LAD (bottom panel) rats.
Detailed Description
[0059]    Throughout this application, unless the context indicates otherwise, references to
a compound of a formula includes all subgroups of the formula defined herein, including
all substructures, subgenera, preferences, embodiments, examples and particular
compounds described herein.
[0060]    References to a compound of a formula and subgroups thereof include ionic
forms, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, amorphous forms, solvates, co-crystals, chelates,
isomers, tautomers, oxides (e.g., N-oxides, S-oxides), esters, prodrugs, isotopes and/or
protected forms thereof. "Crystalline form," "polymorph," and "novel form" may be used
interchangeably herein, and are meant to include all crystalline and amorphous forms of
the compound, including, for example, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, solvates
(including hydrates), co-crystals, unsolvated polymorphs (including anhydrates),
conformational polymorphs, and amorphous forms, as well as mixtures thereof, unless a
particular crystalline or amorphous form is referred to. In some embodiments, references
to a compound of a formula and subgroups thereof include polymorphs, solvates,
co-crystals, isomers, tautomers and/or oxides thereof. In some embodiments, references
to a compound include polymorphs, solvates, and/or co-crystals thereof. In some
embodiments, references to a compound of a formula and subgroups thereof include

                                               -8
isomers, tautomers and/or oxides thereof. In some embodiments, references to a
compound of a formula and subgroups thereof include solvates thereof. Similarly, the
term "salts" includes solvates of salts of compounds.
[0061]     By "optional" or "optionally" is meant that the subsequently described event or
circumstance may or may not occur, and that the description includes instances where the
event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example, "optionally
substituted alkyl" encompasses both "alkyl" and "substituted alkyl" as defined herein. It
will be understood by those skilled in the art, with respect to any group containing one or
more substituents, that such groups are not intended to introduce any substitution or
substitution patterns that are sterically impractical, synthetically non-feasible, and/or
inherently unstable.
[0062]     When a range of values is given (e.g., C1-6 alkyl), each value within the range as
well as all intervening ranges are included. For example, "T1-6alkyl" includes C1, C2, C3,
C4, C5, C6, C16, C2-6, C3-6, C4.6, C5-6, C5, C2-5, C3-5, C4.5, C1.4, C2.4, C3.4, C13, C2-3, and C12
alkyl.
[0063]     When a moiety is defined as being optionally substituted, it may be substituted
as itself or as part of another moiety. For example, if Rx is defined as "T1-6alkyl or OC16
alkyl, wherein C1-6 alkyl is optionally subsituted with halogen", then both the C1-6 alkyl
group alone and the C16 alkyl that makes up part of the          C16  alkyl group may be
substituted with halogen.
[0064]     "Alkyl" encompasses straight chain and branched chain having the indicated
number of carbon atoms, usually from 1 to 20 carbon atoms, for example 1 to 8 carbon
atoms, such as 1 to 6 carbon atoms. For example C1-C6 alkyl encompasses both straight
and branched chain alkyl of from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. When an alkyl residue having a
specific number of carbons is named, all branched and straight chain versions having that
number of carbons are intended to be encompassed; thus, for example, "butyl" is meant to
include n-butyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl and t-butyl; "propyl" includes npropyl and isopropyl.
"Lower alkyl" refers to alkyl groups having one to seven carbons. In certain embodiments,
"lower alkyl" refers to alkyl groups having one to six carbons. Examples of alkyl groups
include methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, tert- butyl, pentyl, 2-pentyl,
isopentyl, neopentyl, hexyl, 2-hexyl, 3-hexyl, 3-methylpentyl, and the like. Alkylene is a
subset of alkyl, referring to the same residues as alkyl, but having two points of
attachment. Alkylene groups will usually have from 2 to 20 carbon atoms, for example 2 to

                                                -9
8 carbon atoms, such as from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. For example, Co alkylene indicates a
covalent bond and C, alkylene is a methylene group.
[0065]     "Haloalkyl" includes straight and branched carbon chains having the indicated
number of carbon atoms (e.g., 1 to 6 carbon atoms) substituted with at least one halogen
atom. In instances wherein the haloalkyl group contains more than one halogen atom, the
halogens may be the same (e.g., dichloromethyl) or different (e.g., chlorofluoromethyl).
Examples of haloalkyl groups include, but are not limited to, chloromethyl, dichloromethyl,
trichloromethyl, fluoromethyl, difluoromethyl, trifluoromethyl, chlorofluoromethyl,
2-fluoroethyl, 2,2-difluoroethyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, 1,2-difluoroethyl, 2-chloroethyl,
2,2-dichloroethyl, 2,2,2-trichloroethyl, 1,2-dichloroethyl, pentachloroethyl, and
pentafluoroethyl.
[0066]     "Alkenyl" refers to an unsaturated branched or straight-chain alkyl group having
at least one carbon-carbon double bond derived by the removal of one molecule of
hydrogen from adjacent carbon atoms of the parent alkyl. The group may be in either the
cis or trans configuration about the double bond(s). Typical alkenyl groups include, but are
not limited to, ethenyl; propenyls such as prop-1-en-1-yl, prop-1 -en-2-yl, prop-2en-1-yl
(allyl), prop-2-en-2-yl; butenyls such as but-i-en-1-yl, but-1-en-2-yl,
2-methylprop-1-en-1-yl, but-2-en-1-yl, but-2-en-1-yl, but-2-en-2-yl, buta-1,3-dien-1-yl,
buta-1,3dien-2-yl; and the like. In certain embodiments, an alkenyl group has from 2 to 20
carbon atoms and in other embodiments, from 2 to 6 carbon atoms. "Lower alkenyl" refers
to alkenyl groups having two to six carbons.
[0067]     "Alkynyl" refers to an unsaturated branched or straight-chain alkyl group having
at least one carbon-carbon triple bond derived by the removal of two molecules of
hydrogen from adjacent carbon atoms of the parent alkyl. Typical alkynyl groups include,
but are not limited to, ethynyl; propynyls such as prop-1 -yn-1-yl, prop-2-yn-1-yl; butynyls
such as but-1-yn-1-yl, but-1-yn-3-yl, but-3-yn-1-yl; and the like. In certain embodiments,
an alkynyl group has from 2 to 20 carbon atoms and in other embodiments, from 3 to 6
carbon atoms. "Lower alkynyl" refers to alkynyl groups having two to six carbons.
[0068]     "Cycloalkyl" indicates a non-aromatic carbocyclic ring, usually having from 3 to 7
ring carbon atoms. The ring may be saturated or have one or more carbon-carbon double
bonds. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl,
cyclopentenyl, cyclohexyl, and cyclohexenyl, as well as bridged and caged ring groups
such as norbornane.

                                              - 10
[0069]     "Cycloalkenyl" indicates a non-aromatic carbocyclic ring, containing the indicated
number of carbon atoms (e.g., 3 to 10, or 3 to 8, or 3 to 6 ring carbon atoms) and at least
one carbon-carbon double bond derived by the removal of one molecule of hydrogen from
adjacent carbon atoms of the corresponding cycloalkyl. Cycloalkenyl groups may be
monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). Examples of cycloalkenyl groups include
cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclopentadienyl, and cyclohexenyl, as well as
bridged and caged ring groups (e.g., bicyclo[2.2.2]octene). In addition, one ring of a
polycyclic cycloalkenyl group may be aromatic, provided the polycyclic alkenyl group is
bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon atom. For example, inden-1-yl
(wherein the moiety is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic carbon atom) is
considered a cycloalkenyl group, while inden-4-yl (wherein the moiety is bound to the
parent structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is not considered a cycloalkenyl group.
Examples of polycyclic cycloalkenyl groups consisting of a cycloalkenyl group fused to an
aromatic ring are described below.
[0070]     The term "alkoxy" refers to the group -0-alkyl, including from 1 to 8 carbon atoms
of a straight, branched, cyclic configuration and combinations thereof attached to the
parent structure through an oxygen. Examples include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy,
isopropoxy, cyclopropyloxy, cyclohexyloxy and the like. "Lower alkoxy" refers to alkoxy
groups containing one to six carbons.
 [0071]     The term "substituted alkoxy" refers to alkoxy wherein the alkyl constituent is
substituted (i.e., -O-(substituted alkyl)) wherein "substituted alkyl" refers to alkyl wherein
one or more (such as up to 5, for example, up to 3) hydrogen atoms are replaced by a
substituent independently chosen from:
         -Ra, -OR , optionally substituted amino
(including -NR'CORb, -NR'CO 2Ra, -NRcCONRbRc, -NRbC(NRc)NRbRc, -NRbC(NCN)NRbRC
, and -NR'SO 2 Ra), halo, cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl), optionally substituted acyl (such as -CORb), optionally
substituted alkoxycarbonyl (such as -CO 2Rb), aminocarbonyl (such
as -CONR R), -OCORb, -OCO 2Ra, -OCONRbRc, -OCONRbRc, -OP(O)(ORb)ORc, sulfanyl
(such as SRb), sulfinyl (such as -SORa), and sulfonyl (such as -SO 2 Ra and -SO2NRbRc),
        where Ra is chosen from optionally substituted C-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally
substituted heteroaryl;
         Rb is chosen from H, optionally substituted Cl-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted

                                                - 11
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, and
optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
         R' is independently chosen from hydrogen and optionally substituted C1 -C4 alkyl;
or
         Rb and R', and the nitrogen to which they are attached, form an optionally
substituted heterocycloalkyl group; and
         where each optionally substituted group is unsubstituted or independently
substituted with one or more, such as one, two, or three, substituents independently
selected from C1-C4 alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aryl-C-C       4 alkyl-, heteroaryl-C-C   4 alkyl-, C1-C4
haloalkyl, -OC1-C4 alkyl, -OC1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C1-C4 alkyl-OH, -OC1-C4 haloalkyl,
halo, -OH, -NH2 , -C1-C4 alkyl-NH 2, -N(C-C      4 alkyl)(C-C 4  alkyl), -NH(C-C   4 alkyl), -N(C-C  4
alkyl)(C-C   4 alkylphenyl), -NH(C-C   4 alkylphenyl),    cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substituent for
cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, or heteroaryl), -C0 2 H, -C(O)OC1-C4 alkyl, -CON(C-C             4
alkyl)(C-C   4 alkyl), -CONH(C-C   4 alkyl), -CONH 2 , -NHC(O)(C-C        4
alkyl), -NHC(O)(phenyl), -N(C-C     4 alkyl)C(O)(C-C 4akyl),      -N(C-C   4
alkyl)C(O)(phenyl), -C(0)C-C4 alkyl, -C(O)C-C4 alkylphenyl, -C(O)C-C4
haloalkyl, -OC(O)C-C4 alkyl, -S0 2 (Cl-C 4 alkyl), -S0 2(phenyl), -S0 2 (Cl-C 4
haloalkyl), -SO 2 NH2 , -SO 2 NH(Cj-C 4 alkyl), -SO 2 NH(phenyl), -NHSO 2 (C-C       4
alkyl), -NHSO 2(phenyl), and -NHSO 2 (C-C       4 haloalkyl).
[0072]     In some embodiments, a substituted alkoxy group is "polyalkoxy"
or -O-(optionally substituted alkylene)-(optionally substituted alkoxy), and includes groups
such as -OCH 2CH20CH 3, and residues of glycol ethers such as polyethyleneglycol,
and -O(CH 2CH 2O)xCH 3, where x is an integer of 2-20, such as 2-10, and for example, 2-5.
Another substituted alkoxy group is hydroxyalkoxy or -OCH 2 (CH2)yOH, where y is an
integer of 1-10, such as 1-4.
[0073]     The term "alkoxycarbonyl" refers to a group of the formula
(alkoxy)(C=O)- attached through the carbonyl carbon wherein the alkoxy group has the
indicated number of carbon atoms. Thus a C-C6 alkoxycarbonyl group is an alkoxy group
having from 1 to 6 carbon atoms attached through its oxygen to a carbonyl linker. "Lower
alkoxycarbonyl" refers to an alkoxycarbonyl group wherein the alkoxy group is a lower
alkoxy group.
[0074]     The term "substituted alkoxycarbonyl" refers to the group (substituted
alkyl)-O-C(O)- wherein the group is attached to the parent structure through the carbonyl
functionality and wherein substituted refers to alkyl wherein one or more (such as up to 5,

                                                -  12
for example, up to 3) hydrogen atoms are replaced by a substituent independently chosen
from:
         -Ra, -OR , optionally substituted amino
(including -NR'CORb, -NR'CO 2Ra, -NRcCONRbRc, -NRbC(NRc)NRbRc, -NRbC(NCN)NRbRC
, and -NR'SO 2 Ra), halo, cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl), optionally substituted acyl (such as -CORb) optionally
substituted alkoxycarbonyl (such as -C0O 2 Rb), aminocarbonyl (such
as -CONRbRc), -OCORb, -OCO 2 Ra, -OCONRbRc, -OCONRbRc, -OP(O)(ORb)ORc, sulfanyl
(such as SRb), sulfinyl (such as -SORa), and sulfonyl (such as -SO 2 Ra and -SO2 NRbRc),
         where Ra is chosen from optionally substituted C-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally
substituted heteroaryl;
         Rb is chosen from H, optionally substituted C-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, and
optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
         R' is independently chosen from hydrogen and optionally substituted C1-C4 alkyl;
or
         Rb and R', and the nitrogen to which they are attached, form an optionally
substituted heterocycloalkyl group; and
         where each optionally substituted group is unsubstituted or independently
substituted with one or more, such as one, two, or three, substituents independently
selected from C1-C4 alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aryl-C-C       4 alkyl-, heteroaryl-C-C   4 alkyl-, C1-C4
haloalkyl, -OC1-C4 alkyl, -OC1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C1-C4 alkyl-OH, -OC1-C4 haloalkyl,
halo, -OH, -NH2 , -C1-C4 alkyl-NH 2, -N(C-C      4 alkyl)(C-C 4   alkyl), -NH(C-C  4 alkyl), -N(C-C  4
alkyl)(C-C   4 alkylphenyl), -NH(C-C   4 alkylphenyl),    cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for
cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, or heteroaryl), -C0 2 H, -C(O)OC1-C4 alkyl, -CON(C-C             4
alkyl)(C-C   4 alkyl), -CONH(C-C   4 alkyl), -CONH 2 , -NHC(O)(C-C         4
alkyl), -NHC(O)(phenyl), -N(C-C     4 alkyl)C(O)(C-C      4 alkyl), -N(C-C   4
alkyl)C(O)(phenyl), -C(0)C1-C4 alkyl, -C(0)C1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C(0)C1-C4
haloalkyl, -OC(O)C-C4 alkyl, -S0 2 (Cl-C 4 alkyl), -S0 2(phenyl), -S0 2 (Cl-C 4
haloalkyl), -SO 2 NH2 , -SO 2 NH(Cj-C 4 alkyl), -SO 2 NH(phenyl), -NHSO 2 (C-C       4
alkyl), -NHSO 2(phenyl), and -NHSO 2 (C-C       4 haloalkyl).
[0075]     "Aryl" encompasses:
         6-membered carbocyclic aromatic rings, for example, benzene;

                                                - 13
         bicyclic ring systems wherein at least one ring is carbocyclic and aromatic, for
example, naphthalene, insane, and tetralin; and
         tricyclic ring systems wherein at least one ring is carbocyclic and aromatic, for
example, fluorene.
[0076]      For example, aryl includes 6-membered carbocyclic aromatic rings fused to a
5- to 7-membered heterocycloalkyl ring containing 1 or more heteroatoms chosen from N,
0, and S. For such fused, bicyclic ring systems wherein only one of the rings is a
carbocyclic aromatic ring, the point of attachment may be at the carbocyclic aromatic ring
or the heterocycloalkyl ring. Bivalent radicals formed from substituted benzene derivatives
and having the free valences at ring atoms are named as substituted phenylene radicals.
Bivalent radicals derived from univalent polycyclic hydrocarbon radicals whose names end
in "-yl" by removal of one hydrogen atom from the carbon atom with the free valence are
named by adding "-idene" to the name of the corresponding univalent radical, e.g., a
naphthyl group with two points of attachment is termed naphthylidene. Aryl, however,
does not encompass or overlap in any way with heteroaryl, separately defined below.
Hence, if one or more carbocyclic aromatic rings is fused with a heterocycloalkyl aromatic
ring, the resulting ring system is heteroaryl, not aryl, as defined herein.
[0077]      "Aralkoxy" refers to the group -0-aralkyl. Similarly, "heteroaralkoxy" refers to the
group -0-heteroaralkyl; "aryloxy" refers to -0-aryl; and "heteroaryloxy" refers to the
group -0-heteroaryl.
[0078]      "Aralkyl" refers to a residue in which an aryl moiety is attached to the parent
structure via an alkyl residue. Examples include benzyl, phenethyl, phenylvinyl, phenylallyl
and the like. "Heteroaralkyl" refers to a residue in which a heteroaryl moiety is attached to
the parent structure via an alkyl residue. Examples include furanylmethyl, pyridinylmethyl,
pyrimidinylethyl and the like.
[0079]      "Halogen" or "halo" refers to fluorine, chlorine, bromine or iodine. Dihaloaryl,
dihaloalkyl, trihaloaryl etc. refer to aryl and alkyl substituted with a plurality of halogens,
but not necessarily a plurality of the same halogen; thus 4-chloro-3-fluorophenyl is within
the scope of dihaloaryl.
[0080]      "Heteroaryl" encompasses:
         5- to 7-membered aromatic, monocyclic rings containing one or more, for example,
from 1 to 4, or in certain embodiments, from 1 to 3, heteroatoms chosen from N, 0, and S,
with the remaining ring atoms being carbon;
         bicyclic heterocycloalkyl rings containing one or more, for example, from 1 to 4, or

                                                - 14
in certain embodiments, from 1 to 3, heteroatoms chosen from N, 0, and S, with the
remaining ring atoms being carbon and wherein at least one heteroatom is present in an
aromatic ring; and
         tricyclic heterocycloalkyl rings containing one or more, for example, from 1 to 5, or
in certain embodiments, from 1 to 4, heteroatoms chosen from N, 0, and S, with the
remaining ring atoms being carbon and wherein at least one heteroatom is present in an
aromatic ring.
[0081]      For example, heteroaryl includes a 5- to 7-membered heterocycloalkyl, aromatic
ring fused to a 5- to 7-membered cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl ring. For such fused,
bicyclic heteroaryl ring systems wherein only one of the rings contains one or more
heteroatoms, the point of attachment may be at either ring. When the total number of S
and 0 atoms in the heteroaryl group exceeds 1, those heteroatoms are not adjacent to
one another. In certain embodiments, the total number of S and 0 atoms in the heteroaryl
group is not more than 2. In certain embodiments, the total number of S and 0 atoms in
the aromatic heterocycle is not more than 1. Examples of heteroaryl groups include, but
are not limited to, (as numbered from the linkage position assigned priority 1), 2-pyridyl,
3-pyridyl, 4-pyridyl, 2,3-pyrazinyl, 3,4-pyrazinyl, 2,4-pyrimidinyl, 3,5-pyrimidinyl,
2,3-pyrazolinyl, 2,4-imidazolinyl, isoxazolinyl, oxazolinyl, thiazolinyl, thiadiazolinyl,
tetrazolyl, thienyl, benzothiophenyl, furanyl, benzofuranyl, benzoimidazolinyl, indolinyl,
pyridazinyl, triazolyl, quinolinyl, pyrazolyl, and 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroisoquinolinyl. Bivalent
radicals derived from univalent heteroaryl radicals whose names end in "-yl" by removal of
one hydrogen atom from the atom with the free valence are named by adding "-idene" to
the name of the corresponding univalent radical, e.g., a pyridyl group with two points of
attachment is a pyridylidene. Heteroaryl does not encompass or overlap with aryl,
cycloalkyl, or heterocycloalkyl, as defined herein
[0082]      Substituted heteroaryl also includes ring systems substituted with one or more
oxide (-0-) substituents, such as pyridinyl N-oxides.
[0083]      By "heterocycloalkyl" is meant a single, non-aromatic ring, usually with 3 to 7 ring
atoms, containing at least 2 carbon atoms in addition to 1-3 heteroatoms independently
selected from oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen, as well as combinations comprising at least
one of the foregoing heteroatoms. The ring may be saturated or have one or more
carbon-carbon double bonds. Suitable heterocycloalkyl groups include, for example (as
numbered from the linkage position assigned priority 1), 2-pyrrolidinyl, 2,4-imidazolidinyl,
2,3-pyrazolidinyl, 2-piperidyl, 3-piperidyl, 4-piperidyl, and 2,5-piperizinyl. Morpholinyl

                                             - 15
groups are also contemplated, including 2-morpholinyl and 3-morpholinyl (numbered
wherein the oxygen is assigned priority 1). Substituted heterocycloalkyl also includes ring
systems substituted with one or more oxo (=O) or oxide (-0-) substituents, such as
piperidinyl N-oxide, morpholinyl-N-oxide, 1-oxo-1 -thiomorpholinyl and
1,1 -dioxo-1 -thiomorpholinyl.
[0084]     "Heterocycloalkyl" also includes bicyclic ring systems wherein one non-aromatic
ring, usually with 3 to 7 ring atoms, contains at least 2 carbon atoms in addition to 1-3
heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen, as well as
combinations comprising at least one of the foregoing heteroatoms; and the other ring,
usually with 3 to 7 ring atoms, optionally contains 1-3 heteratoms independently selected
from oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen and is not aromatic.
[0085]      "Heterocycloalkenyl" indicates a non-aromatic ring having the indicated number
of atoms (e.g., 3 to 10, or 3 to 7, membered heterocycloalkyl) made up of one or more
heteroatoms (e.g., 1, 2, 3 or 4 heteroatoms) selected from N, 0 and S and with the
remaining ring atoms being carbon, and at least one double bond derived by the removal
of one molecule of hydrogen from adjacent carbon atoms, adjacent nitrogen atoms, or
adjacent carbon and nitrogen atoms of the corresponding heterocycloalkyl.
Heterocycloalkenyl groups may be monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic). When
nitrogen is present in a heterocycloalkenyl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent
atoms and groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., N+-O-).    Additionally, when
sulfur is present in a heterocycloalkenyl ring, it may, where the nature of the adjacent
atoms and groups permits, exist in an oxidized state (i.e., S*-O- or -SO 2 -). Examples of
heterocycloalkenyl groups include dihydrofuranyl (e.g., 2,3-dihydrofuranyl,
2,5-dihydrofuranyl), dihydrothiophenyl (e.g., 2,3-dihydrothiophenyl, 2,5-dihydrothiophenyl),
dihydropyrrolyl (e.g., 2,3-dihydro-1 H-pyrrolyl, 2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrolyl), dihydroimidazolyl
(e.g., 2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazolyl, 4,5-dihydro-1 H-imidazolyl), pyranyl, dihydropyranyl (e.g.,
3,4-dihydro-2H-pyranyl, 3,6-dihydro-2H-pyranyl), tetrahydropyridinyl (e.g.,
1,2,3,4-tetrahydropyridinyl, 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridinyl) and dihydropyridine (e.g.,
1,2-dihydropyridine, 1,4-dihydropyridine). In addition, one ring of a polycyclic
heterocycloalkenyl group may be aromatic (e.g., aryl or heteroaryl), provided the
polycyclic heterocycloalkenyl group is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic
carbon or nitrogen atom. For example, a 1,2-dihydroquinolin-1-yl group (wherein the
moiety is bound to the parent structure via a non-aromatic nitrogen atom) is considered a
heterocycloalkenyl group, while 1,2-dihydroquinolin-8-yl group (wherein the moiety is

                                             - 16
bound to the parent structure via an aromatic carbon atom) is not considered a
heterocycloalkenyl group. Examples of polycyclic heterocycloalkenyl groups consisting of
a heterocycloalkenyl group fused to an aromatic ring are described below.
[0086]    Examples of polycyclic rings consisting of an aromatic ring (e.g., aryl or
heteroaryl) fused to a non-aromatic ring (e.g., cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, heterocycloalkyl,
heterocycloalkenyl) include indenyl, 2,3-dihydro-1 H-indenyl,
1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalenyl, benzo[1,3]dioxolyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]dioxinyl, indolinyl, isoindolinyl, 2,3-dihydro-1 H-indazolyl,
2,3-dihydro-1H-benzo[d]imidazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzofuranyl, 1,3-dihydroisobenzofuranyl,
1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]isoxazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]isoxazolyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]oxazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[b]thiophenyl,
1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]thiophenyl, 1,3-dihydrobenzo[c]isothiazolyl,
2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]isothiazolyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[d]thiazolyl,
5,6-dihydro-4H-cyclopenta[d]thiazolyl, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo[d]thiazolyl,
5,6-dihydro-4H-pyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazoly , 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothiazolo[5,4-c]pyridinyl,
indolin-2-one, indolin-3-one, isoindolin-1-one, 1,2-dihydroindazol-3-one,
1H-benzo[d]imidazol-2(3H)-one, benzofuran-2(3H)-one, benzofuran-3(2H)-one,
isobenzofuran-1 (3H)-one, benzo[c]isoxazol-3(1 H)-one, benzo[d]isoxazol-3(2H)-one,
benzo[d]oxazol-2(3H)-one, benzo[b]thiophen-2(3H)-one, benzo[b]thiophen-3(2H)-one,
benzo[c]thiophen-1 (3H)-one, benzo[c]isothiazol-3(1 H)-one, benzo[d]isothiazol-3(2H)-one,
benzo[d]thiazol-2(3H)-one, 4,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazol-6-one,
1,2-dihydropyrazolo[3,4-d]thiazol-3-one, quinolin-4(3H)-one, quinazolin-4(3H)-one,
quinazoline-2,4(1 H,3H)-dione, quinoxalin-2(1 H)-one, quinoxaline-2,3(1 H,4H)-dione,
cinnolin-4(3H)-one, pyridin-2(1 H)-one, pyrimidin-2(1 H)-one, pyrimidin-4(3H)-one,
pyridazin-3(2H)-one, 1H-pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyridin-2(3H)-one,
1H-pyrrolo[3,2-c]pyridin-2(3H)-one, 1H-pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridin-2(3H)-one,
1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridin-2(3H)-one, 1,2-dihydropyrazolo[3,4-d]thiazol-3-one and
4,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-d]thiazol-6-one. As discussed herein, whether each ring is
considered an aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, heterocycloalkyl or
heterocycloalkenyl group is determined by the atom through which the moiety is bound to
the parent structure.
[0087]    "Isomers" are different compounds that have the same molecular formula.
"Stereoisomers" are isomers that differ only in the way the atoms are arranged in space.
"Enantiomers" are a pair of stereoisomers that are non-superimposable mirror images of

                                              - 17
each other. A 1:1 mixture of a pair of enantiomers is a "racemic" mixture. The term "(.±.)"
is used to designate a racemic mixture where appropriate. "Diastereoisomers" are
stereoisomers that have at least two asymmetric atoms, but which are not mirror-images
of each other. The absolute stereochemistry is specified according to the
Cahn-Ingold-Prelog R-S system. When a compound is a pure enantiomer the
stereochemistry at each chiral carbon can be specified by either R or S. Resolved
compounds whose absolute configuration is unknown can be designated (+) or (-)
depending on the direction (dextro- or levorotatory) which they rotate plane polarized light
at the wavelength of the sodium D line. Certain of the compounds described herein
contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus give rise to enantiomers,
diastereomers, and other stereoisomeric forms that can be defined, in terms of absolute
stereochemistry, as (R)- or (S)-. The present invention is meant to include all such
possible isomers, including racemic mixtures, optically pure forms and intermediate
mixtures. Optically active (R)- and (S)- isomers can be prepared using chiral synthons or
chiral reagents, or resolved using conventional techniques. When the compounds
described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry,
and unless specified otherwise, it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z
geometric isomers.
[0088]    The stereochemistry depicted in the structures of cyclic meso compounds is not
absolute; rather the stereochemistry is intended to indicate the positioning of the
substituents relative to one another, e.g., cis or trans. For example,
                                                     FI   N
                                                   NN
                                                NH
                                              N               F
is intended to designate a compound wherein the fluorine and pyridyl substituents on the
cyclobutyl ring are in a cis configuration to one another, while
                                                   FCN
                                            cN-    N          F

                                              - 18
is intended to designate a compound wherein the fluorine and pyridyl substituents on the
cyclobutyl ring are in a trans configuration to one another.
[0089]    When a compound can exist as one or more meso isomers, all possible meso
isomers are intended to be included. For example, the compound
{[3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoro(2-pyridyl))cyclobutyl]methyl}pyrimidin-2-ylamine is intended to
include both cis and trans meso isomers:
                                   N         N                  FQ
                                N                F and,          NF
and mixtures thereof. Unless otherwise indicated, compounds described herein include
all possible meso isomers and mixtures thereof.
[0090]    "Tautomers" are structurally distinct isomers that interconvert by tautomerization.
"Tautomerization" is a form of isomerization and includes prototropic or proton-shift
tautomerization, which is considered a subset of acid-base chemistry. "Prototropic
tautomerization" or "proton-shift tautomerization" involves the migration of a proton
accompanied by changes in bond order, often the interchange of a single bond with an
adjacent double bond. Where tautomerization is possible (e.g. in solution), a chemical
equilibrium of tautomers can be reached. An example of tautomerization is keto-enol
tautomerization. A specific example of keto-enol tautomerization is the interconverision of
pentane-2,4-dione and 4-hydroxypent-3-en-2-one tautomers. Another example of
tautomerization is phenol-keto tautomerization. A specific example of phenol-keto
tautomerization is the interconverision of pyridin-4-ol and pyridin-4(1 H)-one tautomers.
Compounds of certain of the disclosed formulas are tautomeric.
[0091]    A leaving group or atom is any group or atom that will, under the reaction
conditions, cleave from the starting material, thus promoting reaction at a specified site.
Suitable examples of such groups unless otherwise specified are halogen atoms,
mesyloxy, p-nitrobenzensulphonyloxy and tosyloxy groups.
[0092]    Protecting group has the meaning conventionally associated with it in organic
synthesis, i.e. a group that selectively blocks one or more reactive sites in a
multifunctional compound such that a chemical reaction can be carried out selectively on
another unprotected reactive site and such that the group can readily be removed after

                                             - 19
the selective reaction is complete. A variety of protecting groups are disclosed, for
example, in T.H. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis,
Third Edition, John Wiley & Sons, New York (1999). For example, a hydroxy protected
form is where at least one of the hydroxy groups present in a compound is protected with
a hydroxy protecting group. Likewise, amines and other reactive groups may similarly be
protected.
[0093]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" or "pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient" includes any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and
antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such
media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except
insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient, its
use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients
can also be incorporated into the compositions.
[0094]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to salts that retain the
biological effectiveness and properties of the compounds described herein and, which are
not biologically or otherwise undesirable. In many cases, the compounds described herein
are capable of forming acid and/or base salts by virtue of the presence of amino and/or
carboxyl groups or groups similar thereto. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts
can be formed with inorganic acids and organic acids. Inorganic acids from which salts
can be derived include, for example, hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid,
nitric acid, phosphoric acid, and the like. Organic acids from which salts can be derived
include, for example, acetic acid, propionic acid, glycolic acid, pyruvic acid, oxalic acid,
maleic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, fumaric acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic
acid, cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid,
p-toluenesulfonic acid, salicylic acid, and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable base
addition salts can be formed with inorganic and organic bases. Inorganic bases from
which salts can be derived include, for example, sodium, potassium, lithium, ammonium,
calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, aluminum, and the like. Organic
bases from which salts can be derived include, for example, primary, secondary, and
tertiary amines, substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines, cyclic
amines, basic ion exchange resins, and the like, specifically such as isopropylamine,
trimethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, tripropylamine, and ethanolamine. In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt is chosen from
ammonium, potassium, sodium, calcium, and magnesium salts.

                                              - 20
[0095]    The term "solvate" refers to a compound in physical association with one or more
molecules of a pharmaceutically acceptable solvent. It will be understood that "a
compound" encompass the compound, and solvates of that compound, as well as
mixtures thereof.
[0096]    A "chelate" is formed by the coordination of a compound to a metal ion at two (or
more) points. The term "compound" is intended to include chelates of compounds.
Similarly, "salts" includes chelates of salts and "solvates" includes chelates of solvates.
[0097]    A "non-covalent complex" is formed by the interaction of a compound and
another molecule wherein a covalent bond is not formed between the compound and the
molecule. For example, complexation can occur through van der Waals interactions,
hydrogen bonding, and electrostatic interactions (also called ionic bonding). Such
non-covalent complexes are included in the term "compound".
[0098]    The term "prodrug" refers to a substance administered in an inactive or less
active form that is then transformed (e.g., by metabolic processing of the prodrug in the
body) into an active compound. The rationale behind administering a prodrug is to
optimize absorption, distribution, metabolism, and/or excretion of the drug. Prodrugs may
be obtained by making a derivative of an active compound that will undergo a
transformation under the conditions of use (e.g., within the body) to form the active
compound. The transformation of the prodrug to the active compound may proceed
spontaneously (e.g., by way of a hydrolysis reaction) or it can be catalyzed or induced by
another agent (e.g., an enzyme, light, acid or base, and/or temperature). The agent may
be endogenous to the conditions of use (e.g., an enzyme present in the cells to which the
prodrug is administered, or the acidic conditions of the stomach) or the agent may be
supplied exogenously. Prodrugs can be obtained by converting one or more functional
groups in the active compound into another functional group, which is then converted
back to the original functional group when administered to the body. For example, a
hydroxyl functional group can be converted to a sulfonate, phosphate, ester or carbonate
group, which in turn can be hydrolyzed in vivo back to the hydroxyl group. Similarly, an
amino functional group can be converted, for example, into an amide, carbamate, mine,
urea, phosphenyl, phosphoryl or sulfenyl functional group, which can be hydrolyzed in
vivo back to the amino group. A carboxyl functional group can be converted, for example,
into an ester (including silyl esters and thioesters), amide or hydrazide functional group,
which can be hydrolyzed in vivo back to the carboxyl group. Examples of prodrugs
include, but are not limited to, phosphate, acetate, formate and benzoate derivatives of

                                               - 21
functional groups (such as alcohol or amine groups) present in the compounds described
herein.
[0099]     The compounds described herein can be enriched isotopic forms, e.g., enriched
in the content of 2 H, 3 H, 11C, 1 C and/or 14C.  In some embodiments, the compound
contains at least one deuterium atom. Such deuterated forms can be made, for example,
by the procedure described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,846,514 and 6,334,997. Such
deuterated compounds may improve the efficacy and increase the duration of action of
compounds described herein. Deuterium substituted compounds can be synthesized
using various methods, such as those described in: Dean, D., Recent Advances in the
Synthesis and Applications of Radiolabeled Compounds for Drug Discovery and
Development, Curr. Pharm. Des., 2000; 6(10); Kabalka, G. et al., The Synthesis of
Radiolabeled Compounds via Organometallic Intermediates, Tetrahedron, 1989, 45(21),
6601-21; and Evans, E., Synthesis of radiolabeled compounds, J. Radioanal. Chem.,
 1981, 64(1-2), 9-32.
[0100]     The terms "substituted" alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl,
unless otherwise expressly defined, refer respectively to alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl,
heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl wherein one or more (such as up to 5, for example, up to
3) hydrogen atoms are replaced by a substituent independently chosen from:
         -Ra, -OR , optionally substituted amino (including -NR'COR , -NR'CO 2Ra,
-NRcCONRbRc, -NRbC(NRc)NRbRc, -NRbC(NCN)NRbRc, and -NR'SO 2 Ra), halo, cyano,
nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for cycloalkyl, heterocycloalkyl, and heteroaryl), optionally
substituted acyl (such as -CORb), optionally substituted alkoxycarbonyl (such as -CO 2 Rb),
aminocarbonyl (such as -CONR R), -OCORb, -OCO 2 Ra, -OCONRbRC,
-OCONRbRc, -OP(O)(OR )OR', sulfanyl (such as SRb), sulfinyl (such as -SORa), and
sulfonyl (such as -SO2 Ra and -SO2 NRbRc%
        where
         Ra is chosen from optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally substituted
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted alkenyl, optionally
substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally substituted heteroaryl;
         Rb is chosen from hydrogen, optionally substituted C1-C6 alkyl, optionally
substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl,
and optionally substituted heteroaryl; and
         R' is independently chosen from hydrogen and optionally substituted C1-C4 alkyl;
or

                                                  - 22
         Rb and R', and the nitrogen to which they are attached, form an optionally
substituted heterocycloalkyl group; and
         where each optionally substituted group is unsubstituted or independently
substituted with one or more, such as one, two, or three, substituents independently
selected from C-C4 alkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aryl-C-C          4 alkyl-, heteroaryl-C-C    4 alkyl-, C-C4
haloalkyl, -OC1-C4 alkyl, -OC1-C4 alkylphenyl, -C1-C4 alkyl-OH, -OC1-C4 haloalkyl, halo,
-OH, -NH2 , -C1-C4 alkyl-NH 2, -N(C-C       4 alkyl)(C-C 4  alkyl), -NH(C-C    4 alkyl), -N(C-C    4
alkyl)(C-C  4 alkylphenyl), -NH(C-C      4 alkylphenyl), cyano, nitro, oxo (as a substitutent for
cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl), -C0 2 H, -C(O)OC1-C4 alkyl, -CON(C-C             4 alkyl)(C-C    4 alkyl),
-CONH(C-C      4 alkyl), -CONH 2 , -NHC(O)(C-C       4 alkyl),  -NHC(O)(phenyl), -N(C-C        4
alkyl)C(O)(C-C    4 alkyl), -N(C-C   4 alkyl)C(O)(phenyl),     -C(O)C-C4 alkyl, -C(O)C-C4
alkylphenyl, -C(O)C-C4 haloalkyl, -OC(O)C1-C4 alkyl, -S0 2 (Cl-C            4
alkyl), -S0 2(phenyl), -S0 2 (Cl-C 4 haloalkyl), -SO 2 NH2 , -SO 2 NH(Cj-C 4 alkyl),
-SO 2 NH(phenyl), -NHSO 2 (C-C      4 alkyl), -NHSO 2 (phenyl), and -NHSO 2 (C-C         4 haloalkyl).
[0101]     The term "sulfanyl" refers to the groups: -S-(optionally substituted
alkyl), -S-(optionally substituted cycloalkyl), -S-(optionally substituted aryl), -S-(optionally
substituted heteroaryl), and -S-(optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl).
[0102]     The term "sulfinyl" refers to the groups: -S(O)-H, -S(O)-(optionally substituted
alkyl), -S(O)-(optionally substituted cycloalkyl), -S(O)-(optionally substituted
amino), -S(O)-(optionally substituted aryl), -S(O)-(optionally substituted heteroaryl),
and -S(O)-(optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl).
[0103]     The term "sulfonyl" refers to the groups: -S(0 2)-H, -S(0 2 )-(optionally substituted
alkyl), -S(0 2)-(optionally substituted cycloalkyl), -S(0 2 )-(optionally substituted
amino), -S(0 2)-(optionally substituted aryl), -S(0 2)-(optionally substituted heteroaryl),
and -S(0 2 )-(optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl).
[0104]     The term "active agent" is used to indicate a compound that has biological
activity. In some embodiments, an "active agent" is a compound having therapeutic utility.
In some embodiments, the compound enhances at least one aspect of skeletal muscle
function or activity, such as power output, skeletal muscle force, skeletal muscle
endurance, oxygen consumption, efficiency, and/or calcium sensitivity.
[0105]     Compounds also include crystalline and amorphous forms of those compounds,
including, for example, polymorphs, pseudopolymorphs, solvates, hydrates, unsolvated
polymorphs (including anhydrates), conformational polymorphs, and amorphous forms of
the compounds, as well as mixtures thereof. "Crystalline form," "polymorph," and "novel

                                             - 23
form" may be used interchangeably herein, and are meant to include all crystalline and
amorphous forms of the compound, including, for example, polymorphs,
pseudopolymorphs, solvates, hydrates, unsolvated polymorphs (including anhydrates),
conformational polymorphs, and amorphous forms, as well as mixtures thereof, unless a
particular crystalline or amorphous form is referred to.
[0106]    Chemical entities include, but are not limited to, compounds of the disclosed
formulas, and all pharmaceutically acceptable forms thereof. Pharmaceutically acceptable
forms of the compounds recited herein include pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
chelates, non-covalent complexes, prodrugs, and mixtures thereof. In certain
embodiments, the compounds described herein are in the form of pharmaceutically
acceptable salts. Hence, the terms "chemical entity" and "chemical entities" also
encompass pharmaceutically acceptable salts, chelates, non-covalent complexes,
prodrugs, and mixtures.
[0107]    The terms "patient" and "subject" refer to an animal, such as a mammal bird or
fish. In some embodiments, the patient or subject is a mammal. Mammals include, for
example, mice, rats, dogs, cats, pigs, sheep, horses, cows and humans. In some
embodiments, the patient or subject is a human, for example a human that has been or
will be the object of treatment, observation or experiment. The compounds, compositions
and methods described herein can be useful in both human therapy and veterinary
applications.
[0108]    As used herein, "skeletal muscle" includes skeletal muscle tissue as well as
components thereof, such as skeletal muscle fibers, the myofibrils comprising the skeletal
muscle fibers, the skeletal sarcomere which comprises the myofibrils, and the various
components of the skeletal sarcomere described herein, including skeletal myosin, actin,
tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, troponin T and fragments and isoforms thereof. In
some embodiments, "skeletal muscle" includes fast skeletal muscle tissue as well as
components thereof, such as fast skeletal muscle fibers, the myofibrils comprising the fast
skeletal muscle fibers, the fast skeletal sarcomere which comprises the myofibrils, and the
various components of the fast skeletal sarcomere described herein, including fast
skeletal myosin, actin, tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, troponin T and fragments and
isoforms thereof. Skeletal muscle does not include cardiac muscle or a combination of
sarcomeric components that occurs in such combination in its entirety in cardiac muscle.
[0109]    As used herein, the term "therapeutic" refers to the ability to modulate the
contractility of fast skeletal muscle. As used herein, "modulation" (and related terms, such

                                             - 24
as "modulate", "modulated", "modulating") refers to a change in function or efficiency of
one or more components of the fast skeletal muscle sarcomere, including myosin, actin,
tropomyosin, troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T from fast skeletal muscle, including
fragments and isoforms thereof, as a direct or indirect response to the presence of a
compound described herein, relative to the activity of the fast skeletal sarcomere in the
absence of the compound. The change may be an increase in activity (potentiation) or a
decrease in activity (inhibition), and may be due to the direct interaction of the compound
with the sarcomere, or due to the interaction of the compound with one or more other
factors that in turn affect the sarcomere or one or more of its components. In some
embodiments, modulation is a potentiation of function or efficiency of one or more
components of the fast skeletal muscle sarcomere, including myosin, actin, tropomyosin,
troponin C, troponin I, and troponin T from fast skeletal muscle, including fragments and
isoforms thereof. Modulation may be mediated by any mechanism and at any
physiological level, for example, through sensitization of the fast skeletal sarcomere to
contraction at lower Ca 2 , concentrations. As used herein, "efficiency" or "muscle
efficiency" means the ratio of mechanical work output to the total metabolic cost.
[0110]     The term "muscle fatigue" or "skeletal muscle fatigue" refers to a reduction in
contractile capacity following repeat-use and represents a combination of central fatigue
(limitations of the central and peripheral nervous system to sustain activity) and peripheral
fatigue (intrinsic loss of muscle function such as a reduced effectiveness of excitation
contraction coupling). Together, these result in reduced muscle performance under
fatiguing conditions. Diminished resistance to fatigue is a common symptom of multiple
diseases with a broad array of causes. In this context, fatigue constitutes a major factor in
quality of life in conditions such as ALS, COPD, multiple sclerosis, myocardial infarction,
claudication, myasthenia gravis, anemia, and chronic fatigue syndrome.
[0111]     The term "value" refers to a numerical result.
[0112]     The term "parameter" refers to a measurable factor. The measurements
obtained from accessing a parameter are the parameter values. Parameters can include,
for example, time to claudication onset, number of heel raises to claudication onset, work
to claudication onset, time to maximal claudication fatigue, number of heel raises to
maximal claudication fatigue, and work to maximal claudication fatigue
[0113]     The term "work to claudication onset" or "work to maximal claudication fatigue"
refers to the work performed before the onset of claudication or maximal claudication
fatigue. The work can be defined as the value from the formula: sine * foot length * body

                                              - 25
mass where    e is equal to the degree of plantar flexion. The degree of plantar flexion can
be measured with the aid of instruments such as a goniometer, for example.
[0114]    The term "therapeutically effective amount" or "effective amount" refers to that
amount of a compound selected from the disclosed formulas that is sufficient to effect
treatment, as defined below, when administered to a mammal in need of such treatment.
The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending upon the subject and disease
condition being treated, the weight and age of the subject, the severity of the disease
condition, the particular compound selected from the disclosed formulas, the dosing
regimen to be followed, timing of administration, the manner of administration and the like,
all of which can readily be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.
[0115]    "Treatment" or "treating" means any treatment of a disease in a patient,
including:
     (a)    preventing the disease, that is, causing the clinical symptoms of the disease
            not to develop;
     (b)    inhibiting the disease;
     (c)    slowing or arresting the development of clinical symptoms; and/or
     (d)    relieving the disease, that is, causing the regression of clinical symptoms.
[0116]    As used herein, "power output" of a muscle means work/cycle time and may be
scaled up from PoLo/cycle time units based on the properties of the muscle. Power
output may be modulated by changing, for example, activating parameters during cyclical
length changes, including timing of activation (phase of activation) and the period of
activation (duty cycle.)
[0117]    "ATPase" refers to an enzyme that hydrolyzes ATP. ATPases include proteins
comprising molecular motors such as the myosins.
[0118]    As used herein, "selective binding" or "selectively binding" refers to preferential
binding to a target protein in one type of muscle or muscle fiber as opposed to other
types. For example, a compound selectively binds to fast skeletal troponin C if the
compound preferentially binds troponin C in the troponin complex of a fast skeletal muscle
fiber or sarcomere in comparison with troponin C in the troponin complex of a slow muscle
fiber or sarcomere or with troponin C in the troponin complex of a cardiac sarcomere.
[0119]    The compounds described herein selectively sensitize fast skeletal muscle to
calcium by binding to the troponin complex. By increasing the calcium sensitivity of the
troponin-tropomyosin regulatory complex, which is the calcium sensor within the
sarcomere that regulates the actin-myosin force-generating interaction, the compounds

                                              - 26
improve muscle force generation. As a consequence of this activity on the troponin
tropomyosin complex, the compounds amplify the response of muscle to neuromuscular
input and also decrease the fatigability of muscle. Thus, the compounds will improve
muscle strength in the face of fatigue in healthy subjects as well as subjects suffering from
neuromuscular disorders or other conditions marked by muscle weakness.
[0120]    Skeletal muscle fatigue is a complex phenomenon that, in general terms, can
involve the central nervous system, motor neuron firing, muscle cell depolarization/action
potential propagation, release of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) calcium, activation of
troponin on the thin filaments and cross-bridge cycling of myosin interacting with actin to
generate force. Typically, in humans fatigue is thought to minimally involve the central
nervous system or the neuromuscular junction, i.e. "central fatigue" but rather primarily
involves myocytes themselves. Fatigue is often categorized as either low frequency
fatigue due to repeated tetanic stimulation or high frequency fatigue due to continuous
high frequency stimulation. Tension declines slowly during a sustained maximum
voluntary contraction (low frequency fatigue).
[0121]    In prolonged skeletal muscle contraction, Pi and ADP concentrations rise due to
breakdown of ATP and creatine phosphate. In numerous studies, Pi has been
demonstrated to be an important factor to decrease muscle function (N.C. Millar and E.
Homsher. J. Biol. Chem. Vol. 265, No. 33, Issue of November 25, pp. 20234-20240,1990;
Allen D.G. et al. Physiol Rev; 88:287-332. 2008). Because Pi is released from actin
myosin crossbridges at a position in the cross-bridge cycle associated with force
production, elevated Pi levels are presumed to accelerate the backward rate of this step
and thereby reduce muscle force (Takagi Y. et al. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci.
2004 December 29; 359(1452):1913-1920; Fitts et al. J Appl Physiol 104:551-558, 2008).
In addition to decreased force, Pi decreases Ca2 , sensitivity of troponin (H. Westerblad et
al. Cellular mechanisms of fatigue in skeletal muscle. Am. J. Physiol. 261 (Cell Physiol.
30): C195-C209, 1991). For example, in skinned rabbit psoas muscle, as Pi in the bath
was increased from 0.2 mM to 13.8 mM, Ca 2 , sensitivity toward tension development was
reduced from pCa=6.81 to pCa=6.42 and the Hill slope increased from 2.5 to 4.74 (Millar
1990). Compared to low temperature (10-20 0 C), when skinned muscle fiber work was
conducted at near physiological temperatures (~30 0C), the negative effects on Ca2 ,
sensitivity in fast skeletal muscle fibers were amplified. Thus, at lower Ca 2 ,concentrations
(pCa>5.8), high levels of Pi appear to reduce the force per cross-bridge and significantly
increase the free Ca 2 , level required for half-maximal peak force (lower pCa50 ) (E. P.

                                              - 27
Debold et al. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol 290:C1041-C1050, 2006.). Furthermore Allen
and colleagues explored the Pi reduction in Ca 2 , sensitivity of contraction in intact mouse
muscles (Allen, DG. et al. J. Apple Physiol 111: 358-366, 2011). In those studies, not only
did Pi increase as muscle force decreased (as measured by 3 1P-NMR) but tetanic
myocyte and sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) calcium levels also dropped in relation to force
during fatiguing stimulation protocols. Thus, during fatigue Pi also decreases Ca 2,
release from the SR (Allen 2008) and decreases SR calcium levels, likely by precipitating
SR Ca 2 , (D. G. Allen and H. Westerblad Joumal of Physiology (2001), 536.3, pp.657
665). Taken together, the reduced Ca 2 ' release from the SR, the Pi-induced rightward
shift of the pCa-force relationship and the direct negative effects of Pi on cross-bridge
cycling likely combine to synergistically reduce muscle force and power output. Debold
and colleagues (2006) gave the example that if intracellular Ca 2 , were to be reduced from
pCa 5.0 to 6.0 (which would be a typical drop in free intracellular Ca 2 , that might be
observed after prolonged stimulation of intact muscle fibers) at physiological temperature,
and in the presence of 30 mM Pi (typical in fatigued fibers), force would be reduced by
about 90% in type II fibers. It is this drop in muscle performance as a function of
decreased free intracellular Ca 2 ' and diminished calcium sensitivity of fast muscle fibers
that suggests a potential role for fast skeletal troponin activators to mitigate fatigue.
[0122]     Numerous studies have demonstrated the importance of impaired SR Ca 2 ,
release into the myoplasm for the development of fatigue (D. G. Allen et al. Joumal of
Physiology (1989), 415. pp. 433-458; Allen et al. 1995 Exp. Physio./ 80, 497-527; Favero
1999 J. Apple Phsyiol. 87: 471-483). Ca 2 ' release modulators have been important to
understand the roles of Ca 2 ' release from the SR. In the mouse EDL muscle 20 pM
dantrolene (a muscle relaxant that inhibits Ca 2 ' release via RyR receptors from the SR)
decreased early tetanic tension yet abolished overall fatigue development (E. Germinario
et al. J AppI Physiol96:645-649, 2004). Conversely, caffeine (which stimulates SR Ca 2 ,
release and increases free intracellular Ca 2 , concentrations) increased initial tetanic EDL
tension but accelerated and accentuated muscle fatigue to repeated 60 Hz stimulation
over 6 minutes (Germinario 2004). In contrast to the changes elicited by dantrolene and
caffeine on fatigue where the initial level of tetanic tension caused by the compounds was
inversely related to subsequent muscle fatigability, fast skeletal troponin activators as
described herein increase initial (submaximal) tension and also enhance fatigue
resistance.

                                              -28
[0123]     Another important aspect of Ca 2 ' release from the SR is the potential to activate
Ca 2*/calmodulin-dependent skeletal muscle myosin light chain kinase (skMLCK) which
subsequently phosphorylates the regulatory light chain (RLC) of sarcomeric myosin (H.L.
Sweeney et al. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol 264:C1085-C1095, 1993; J.T. Stull et al. Arch
Biochem Biophys. 2011 June 15; 510(2): 120-128). Phosphorylation of myosin cross
bridge heads moves the myosin heads away from the thick filament (Sweeney 1993) and
enhances thin filament-regulated ATPase activity to increase Ca 2 , sensitivity toward force
generation and rate of force development (D.T. Szczesna et al. JAppl Physiol92:1661
1670, 2002). Repetitive stimulation of intact muscle and thereby RLC phosphorylation,
enhances muscle work and power. The history-dependent force output instills a muscle
"memory" when striated muscle has been recently active. Along with metabolism
induced changes in cross bridge function, RLC phosphorylation mechanistically increases
the Ca 2 , sensitivity of the sarcomere to enhance muscle force, work and power,
particularly during fatigue. Studies on sarcomere function indicate that RLC increases
force responses at submaximal, but not maximal Ca 2' activation to shift the force-pCa
response to the left (H.L. Sweeney et al. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol 250:C657-C660,
1986; Stull 2011). RLC appears to increase the number of cross-bridges capable of
cycling against the thin filament rather than increasing the force per cross-bridge during
cycling. In this way, the profile of RLC phosphorylation is similar to the profile defined by
fast skeletal troponin activators as described herein. That is, both RLC phosphorylation
and fast skeletal troponin activators appear to increase the number of cycling cross
bridges, left-shift the force-pCa response, increase the rate of force development and slow
the rate of relaxation of skinned skeletal muscle fibers. RLC phosphorylation may
enhance force, work and power generation during submaximal contractions in vivo (Stull
2011), an effect that has also been demonstrated for fast skeletal troponin activators in
the current work and in previous studies (Russell AJ et al., Nature Medicine,
2011;378:667-75). Both RLC phosphorylation and fast skeletal troponin activators each
might enhance low frequency muscle force/power to help preserve muscle function under
fatiguing conditions.
[0124]     Most of the energy utilized by myocytes can be accounted for by two ATP
dependent processes, cross-bridge cycling and Ca2, cycling across cellular membranes.
Under resting conditions, SERCA1 is responsible for maintaining a low (<100 nM)
cytosolic free Ca 2 , concentration. In mouse EDL muscle, ATP consumption by SERCAs
is responsible for approximately 50% of resting metabolic rate (S.M. Norris et al. Am J

                                              - 29
Physiol Cell Physiol 298:C521-C529, 2010). Fast skeletal troponin activators reduce the
Ca 2' requirement in muscle for tension generation, i.e. the same amount of force can be
generated with less Ca 2 , (Russell 2011). A fast skeletal troponin activator's diminished
requirement for free cytosolic Ca 2 , to generate force portends a profound diminution in
myocyte SERCA ATP consumption, resulting in substantial energetic savings and
improved resistance of muscle to fatigue. This reduction in Ca 2' requirement for force
generation may play a a part in the improved resistance of muscle to fatigue due to fast
skeletal troponin activators.
[0125]    In fatigue, the complicated program of molecular events often acts synergistically
to diminish Ca 2 ,-activated sarcomere contraction (Debold 2006). Thus, repetitive muscle
fiber stimulation leads to impaired coupling of T tubular depolarization to impair proper SR
Ca 2' release, diminished SR Ca 2 , content (perhaps due to precipitation with Pi), reduced
Ca 2' release from SR due to negative metabolic effectors such as ADP, Pi, Mg2' and H',
decreased troponin sensitivity to Ca 2 ' resulting from increased levels of Pi, H and ROS
(Westerblad 1991; Allen 2008) and phosphorylation of RyR1 (S. Gehlert et al. PLoS One.
2012; 7(1 1):e49326), and decreased tension-generating capacity of contractile elements
(Debold 2006). Calcium ion release from isolated SR may be reduced by as much as
40% following prolonged or intense exercise in humans (Allen 2008). The increase in
sarcomere Ca2 , sensitivity elicited by fast skeletal troponin activators addresses these
important aspects of Ca 2 ' handling in muscle fatigue, especially those of diminished Ca 2 ,
sensitivity resulting from repeated contractions (Westerblad 1991). By normalizing Ca 2 ,
sensitivity in contracting muscle, fast skeletal troponin activators decrease fatigability of
muscle in vitro, in situ and in vivo. Thus, fast skeletal troponin activators are a useful
therapeutic approach to enhance muscle function under conditions of neuromuscular
weakness and to alleviate fatigue.
[0126]    During muscle contraction, the force-velocity relationship is hyperbolic where
greater loads produce slower speeds but greater tension. The effect of strength training is
to increase the maximum isometric tension (P.) of muscle. Although exercise does not
increase the maximum unloaded velocity (V,), a stronger trained muscle can move a load
isotonically at a greater velocity. Another aspect of the profiles elicited by fast skeletal
troponin activators is the similarity to exercise training. Thus, resistance training in older
men led to a 45% increase in V. in type I fibers of the vastus lateralis and an increase in
power from 25.5 to 41.1 uN*fiber length/sec (Trappe et al. J. Apple. Phsyiol. 89:143-152,
2000). In the vastus lateralis type I fibers, the force-velocity relationship was moved

                                                 - 30
upward following exercise, similar to the force-velocity curves described in the current rat
studies following fast skeletal troponin activators treatment. Likewise, exercise training
progressively increased power output in those subjects (Trappe 2000) in a way
reminiscent of the power increases described with fast skeletal troponin activator
treatment. Exercise training has been related to improvements in Ca 2 ' handling in
skeletal muscle (Ferreira Exp Biol Med 235:497-505, 2010) and exercise performance
(G.C. Bogdanis. Frontiers in Physiol. May 2012, Vol. 3, Article 142, pp. 1-15).
[0127]      It is notable that conditions that left-shift the force-pCa curve such as skeletal
muscle RLC phosphorylation, exercise training or fast skeletal troponin activator binding to
the troponin complex all improve muscle fatigability. The similarities in muscle
performance due to these three conditions underscore the importance of sarcomeric Ca2 ,
sensitivity in muscle performance and fatigue resistance. Unlike attempts to enhance
muscle performance that involve AMPK activation (e.g. exercise training or treatment with
the small molecule AICAR) which require long-term alterations in gene expression of
numerous targets, fast skeletal troponin activators such as those described herein rapidly
(i.e., within minutes to hours) enhance sub-maximal muscle force development and
fatigability and are specific for the fast skeletal troponin complex. This enables a selective
pharmacological therapy to enhance skeletal muscle function for a variety of potential
disease states, especially those where fatigue is a cardinal symptom.
[0128]      Development of muscle fatigue is often described as a decline in maximal force
or power capacity of muscle, implying that submaximal contractions are sustainable
following the onset of muscle fatigue. Muscle fatigue might describe a reduction in muscle
force capacity, decreased endpoints for a sustained activity, exhaustion of contractile
function or possibly a waning in mental function (R.M. Enoka and J. Duchateau. J Physiol
586.1 (2008) pp 11-23). The mechanism(s) involved in fatigue depend on the task being
performed and must include both the perception of fatigue and the mechanisms that
define muscle fatigability (Enoka et al. J. Biomech. 45:427-433, 2012). Not only are there
different fatigue mechanisms at play in isometric vs. isotonic muscle contraction, but even
different protocols for isometric contractions can yield different fatigue profiles. Thus, in
human volunteers asked to either push their arm up against a force transducer to maintain
submaximal target force or to perform an identically-matched net muscle torque task of
supporting an inertial load with the elbow flexor muscles, the fatigue profile was
dramatically different (S.K. Hunter et al. J Neurophysiol 88:3087-3096, 2002). The
endurance time for maintaining the force task (1402 sec) was twice as long as for the

                                              -31
position task (702 sec) and had a lower level of excitatory and inhibitory input to the motor
neurons compared to the position task in those studies. Fatigue-related adjustments in
motor unit recruitment appears, thus, to also influence the sensations associated with
fatiguing contractions, for example, there is a strong association between fatigability and
the perception of exertion (Enoka and Duchateau, 2008). It is therefore important to not
only define the potential effects of fast skeletal troponin activators on muscle function in
vitro or in unconscious animal models, but to also explore effects on exercise capacity and
fatigue in conscious animal models of static and dynamic exercise. The effects of fast
skeletal troponin activators can be evaluated in dynamic exercise models in laboratory
animals, such as an accelerating rotarod assay (0. Fanellie. Pharmacology.
1976;14(1):52-7; N. Boyadjiev et al. Journal of Sports Science and Medicine (2007) 6,
423-428), a treadmill endurance-type fatigue assay, or a cage grid hang time assay, as
described herein. The effects of fast skeletal troponin activators can also be evaluated in
dynamic exercise studies using human subjects, for example using a bilateral heel raise
test, as described herein.
[0129]     Provided are methods for improving resistance to skeletal muscle fatigue in a
subject in need thereof, said method comprising administering to the subject an effective
amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator. In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle
troponin activator is a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator. In some embodiments, the
subject is suffering from a condition selected from peripheral artery disease, claudication,
and muscle ischemia.
[0130]     Also provided are methods of improving resistance to fatigue in a skeletal
muscle, comprising contacting the skeletal muscle with a skeletal muscle troponin
activator, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator increases submaximal tension in
the skeletal muscle.
[0131]     Also provided are methods of improving resistance to fatigue in a skeletal
muscle, comprising contacting the skeletal muscle with a skeletal muscle troponin
activator, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator reduces the calcium required by
the skeletal muscle to generate force.
[0132]     Also provided are methods of improving resistance to fatigue in a skeletal
muscle, comprising contacting the skeletal muscle with a skeletal muscle troponin
activator, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator increases the rate of force
development in the skeletal muscle.

                                              -  32
[0133]     In some of embodiments disclosed herein, the skeletal muscle troponin activator
is a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0134]     In some embodiments, the improvement in resistance to skeletal muscle fatigue
in the subject is determined by a bilateral heel-raise test as described herein (see
Examples 10 and 11 herein) . In some embodiments, the bilateral heel-raise test
comprises instructing the subject to perform heel raises at regular intervals and measuring
the value of one or more parameters selected from (a) time to claudication onset, (b)
number of heel raises to claudication onset, (c) work to claudication onset, (d) time to
maximal claudication fatigue, (e) number of heel raises to maximal claudication fatigue,
and (d) work to maximal claudication fatigue, wherein an increase in the one or more of
the parameters indicates an improvement in resistance to fatigue in the subject.
[0135]     In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of
Formula 1:
                           R
         R 21,XN
                                                8 R9 )m       R7
                                       3(CR
               R           N          N
                                                      R5    R
                                Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
         R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR', C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
         R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl
and NRbR', wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa

                                               - 33
(CH 2)nC(S)NR'Rc, (CH2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH2 )nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2 )nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2 )n5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2 )nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2 )n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR', C6o10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
         R4 is selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR' and SO 2 Ra;
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C16 alkyl and
C16  haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR R, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610
aryl, C7.11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C16 alkyl;

                                                - 34
         X is selected from a
bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2)pC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pO(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pS(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,      -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH   2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pC(O)NRd(CH 2
)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pNRdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2 )pSO 2NRd(CH 2 )q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected
from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds, and
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         Rb and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Rj and SO2 R, wherein each of the
C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C16 alkyl;
         R*, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
         R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR',
OC(O)R, OC(O)OR, OC(O)NR'Rj, NR'Rj, NRdC(O)Rh, NRdC(O)OR, NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)Rh, NRdC(S)OR, NRdC(S)NR'R, NRdC(NRe)NR'R,
NRdS(O)Rh, NRdSO 2 R, NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R, C(O)OR, C(O)NR'Ri, C(S)R', C(S)OR,
C(S)NR'Rj, C(NRe)NR'R, SR', S(O)Rh, SO 2R, SO 2 NR'Rj,           C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl

                                               - 35
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R'
substituents;
           or two R' substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl
and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;
           R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C7.11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
           R' and RI, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl,
NHC(O)C00 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, 0C(0)C711 aralkyl,
OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl,      C(O)C16 alkyl, C(0)C7.11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl,
C(0)0C711 aralkyl, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C7.11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from OH, C16 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6
alkyl) 2 , NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 6 alkyl, and NHC(O)OC 7 11
aralkyl;
           or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;

                                                - 36
        m is 0, 1 or 2;
        n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
        p is 0, 1 or 2; and
        q is 0, 1 or 2.
[0136]   In some embodiments of compounds of Formula I, m is 0, i.e., a compound of
Formula 1l,or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                            R1
        R                        N         R5   R6
              R             N           N          R
                                         I
                                        R4
                          Formula II
wherein R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 , R-, R6 , R7 and X are as defined herein.
[0137]   In some embodiments of compounds of Formula I, m is 1, i.e., a compound of
Formula Ill, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                             R1
        R2                         N        R8    R9
               R3            N           N               R7
                                         R4     R5    R6
                          Formula Ill
           1
wherein R , R ,2
                  R3 , R , R5, R , R7, R , R9 and X are as defined herein.
                        4
[0138]   In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, one of R5 and R6 is
hydrogen and the other is C1-6 alkyl.
[0139]   In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R6 are each
independently C1-6 alkyl.
[0140]   In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R6 are each
methyl.

                                                - 37
[0141]     In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula IV(a) or IV(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                            R1
         R                         N
               R3           N            N          RT
                                         I
                                         R4
                          Formula IV(a)
                             R1
         R2                        N       R8     R9
                             N           N
                                         R4
                          Formula IV(b)
wherein R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 , R7, R8 , R9 and X are as defined herein.
[0142]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R6 together
with the carbon atom to which they are bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl or 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa,
OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR,
C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0143]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R , together
with the carbon to which they are bound, form C3-6 cycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR'RC, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
[0144]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R , together
with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or
cyclohexyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from

                                            - 38
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR Rc,
S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0145]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R , together
with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3,
4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R',
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR , C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0146]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R , together
with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl substituted with one substituent
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NR Rc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl, wherein the
substituent and R7 are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on the
cyclobutyl ring.
[0147]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R , together
with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl substituted with one substituent
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl, wherein the
substituent and R7 are in a cis configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl
ring.
[0148]    In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula V(a) or V(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                 R1           Rm     Rn
                      x
                  2
                 R                    N
                      R3         N          N          R7
                                            R4
                               Formula V(a)

                                                -39
                                      R1
                R2                         N      R8     R9
                        R3            N         N
                                                R4
                                                       Rm     Rn
                                   Formula V(b)
wherein Rm and R' are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1-6
alkyl, and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R7, R8 , R9 and X are as defined herein.
[0149]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), Rm and R' are
each hydrogen.
[0150]    In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), Rm and R' are each
halogen.
[0151]    In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), Rm and R' are each
fluorine.
[0152]    In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), one of Rm and R' is
hydrogen and the other is halogen. In some embodiments of such compounds, the
halogen and R7 are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl
ring. In some embodiments of such compounds, the halogen and R7 are in a cis
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0153]    In some embodiments compounds of Formula V(a) or V(b), one of Rm and R' is
hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In some embodiments of such compounds, the
fluorine and R7 are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl
ring. In some embodiments of such compounds, the fluorine and R7 are in a cis
configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0154]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11or Ill, R5 and R , together
with the carbon atom to which they are bound, form 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl, each
of which is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R', S(O)Ra,
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR, C16 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.

                                              - 40
[0155]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R , together
with the carbon atom to which they are bound, form aziridine, azetidine, pyrrolidine,
oxirane, oxetane or tetrahydrofuran, each of which is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R',
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR , C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0156]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R6 are each
independently C16 alkyl, or R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are
bound form C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl or 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NR Rc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0157]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R6 are each
methyl, or R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound form C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl or 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected
from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NR Rc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0158]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R6 are each
independently C16 alkyl, or R5 and R , together with the carbon to which they are bound,
form cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl.
[0159]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11 or Ill, R5 and R6 are each
methyl, or R5 and R , together with the carbon to which they are bound, form cyclobutyl
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, NR R, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRRc, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl.
[0160]    In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
        7
V(b), R is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NRRc, NR Rc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa
NRdC(O)NRbRc, NRdC(O)C(O)NRbRc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NRbRc,

                                                - 41
NRdC(NR*)NR'Rc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2NR'Rc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR'Rc,
C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR'Rc, C(NR*)NR'Rc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2NR'R , C1-6 alkyl,
C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0161]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
V(b), R7 is phenyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR'Rc, NR'Rc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR'Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR'R, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR'Rc, NRdC(NR*)NR'Rc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o
aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0162]     In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VI, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                           R1
         R2                      N
                                                                                  (Rf)r
                                                     9
                                             (CRR )m
               R           N           N
                                       R4               R5      R6
                                          Formula VI
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R-, R6 , R , R9 , R', X and m are as defined
herein.
[0163]     In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VII(a) or VII(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:

                                                 - 42
                           R1
       R2                       N
              R            N           N
                                                                   -(RI)r
                                       R4
                                Formula VII(a)
                           R
                R2              N          8R      R9
                                                                         I -(R')r
                                                   X
              R3:          N           N
                                       R4
                                Formula VII(b)
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 , R , R9, R' and X are as defined herein.
[0164]   In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                           R1           Rm         Rn
       R2                       N
              R3           N           N
                                                               I--(R)r
                                       R4
                                Formula Vlll(a)

                                                   -43
                             R1
           R 2xN                           R8       R9
                             N           N(Rr
                    R3
                                         I
                                         R4
                                                Rm        Rn
                                  Formula VIII(b)
wherein Rm and R' are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen and C1-6
alkyl; r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R8 , R9, R and X are as defined herein.
[0165]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), Rm and R' are
each hydrogen.
[0166]      In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), Rm and R' are
each halogen.
[0167]      In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), Rm and R' are
each fluorine.
[0168]      In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), one of Rm and R'
is hydrogen and the other is halogen. In some embodiments of such compounds, the
halogen and the phenyl ring are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on the
cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such compounds, the halogen and the phenyl
ring are in a cis configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0169]      In some embodiments compounds of Formula VIII(a) or VIII(b), one of Rm and R'
is hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In some embodiments of such compounds, the
fluorine and the phenyl ring are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on the
cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such compounds, the fluorine and the phenyl
ring are in a cis configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0170]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
         7
V(b), R is selected from phenyl, 2-fluorophenyl, 3-fluorophenyl, 2, 4-difluorophenyl,
3,4-difluorophenyl, 3,5-difluorophenyl, 4-fluorophenyl, 2-chlorophenyl, 3-chlorophenyl,
4-chlorophenyl, 2, 4-dichlorophenyl, 3,4-dichlorophenyl, 3,5-dichlorophenyl,
2-methylphenyl, 3-methylphenyl, 2, 4-dimethylphenyl, 3,4-dimethylphenyl,
3,5-dimethylphenyl, 2-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl, 3-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl,

                                               - 44
4-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl, 2-(aminomethyl)phenyl, 3-(aminomethyl)phenyl,
4-(aminomethyl)phenyl, 2-phenol, 3-phenol, 4-phenol, 2-methoxyphenyl,
3-methoxyphenyl, 4-methoxyphenyl, 2-difluoromethoxyphenyl, 3-difluoromethoxyphenyl,
4-difluoromethoxyphenyl, 2-trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 3-trifluoromethoxyphenyl,
4-trifluoromethoxyphenyl, 2-cyanophenyl, 3-cyanophenyl, 4-cyanophenyl, 2-benzamine,
3-benzamide, 4-benzamide, N-mehtyl-2-benzamine, N-methyl-3-benzamide,
N-methyl-4-benzamide, N,N-dimethyl-2-benzamine, N,N-dimethyl-3-benzamide, and
N,N-dimethyl-4-benzamide.
[0171]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
V(b), R7 is 5-10 membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR'R ,
NR'Rc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR'Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, NRdC(S)Ra,
NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NR'Rc, NRdC(NRe)NR'Rc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra, NRdSO 2 NR'Rc,
C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRbR', C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NRbR', C(NRe)NRR', SRa, S(O)Ra
SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRbR', C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o
aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0172]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
         7
V(b), R is pyridyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR R, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR', C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o
aryl, C7.11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0173]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
         7
V(b), R is selected from 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl and 4-pyridyl, each optionally substituted with

                                                -  45
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
OC(O)NR'Rc, NR'Rc, NRdC(O)Ra, NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR'Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc,
NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa, NRdC(S)NR'Rc, NRdC(NRe)NR'Rc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2 Ra
NRdSO 2NR'Rc, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR'Rc, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR R,
C(NR*)NR R', SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, C3-6 cycloalkyl, C3-6 cycloalkenyl, 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-6 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, phenyl, naphthyl, C7-11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C-1o aryl, C7-11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R'
substituents.
[0174]     In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula IX, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                           R(
                                                  8 R9 )m
                                        3(CR
               R           N          N                                   N
                                       1R4R
                                                          5    R6
                                         Formula IX
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R1, R2 , R3 , R4 , R-, R , R8 , R9 , R', X and m are as defined
herein.
[0175]     In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula X(a) or X(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                           R1
         R2                      N
               R3          N          N
                                                                      (RI)r
                                      R4             N
                                 Formula X(a)

                                                   -46
                             R1
          R2         2           NNIl,      R8      R9
                                                                             (RI)r
                 R           N           N
                                         R4
                                  Formula X(b)
wherein r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4, and R, R2 , R3 , R4 , 8R , R,9 R' and X are as defined herein.
[0176]      In some embodiments, the compounds are of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                             R1            Rm       Rn
          R2     xN
                 R3          N           N
                                          R4            N)                 r
                                  Formula XI(a)
                             R1
                   R2             N         RfR9
                                                                          I -(Rf)r
                 R3          N           N                     -   N
                                          I
                                         R4
                                                 Rm        Rn
                                  Formula XI(b)
wherein Rm and R' are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen and                 C1-6
alkyl; r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R 2, R 3, R 4, R 8, R9, RI and X are as defined herein.

                                              - 47
[0177]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), Rm and R' are
each hydrogen.
[0178]     In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), Rm and R' are each
halogen.
[0179]     In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), Rm and R' are each
fluorine.
[0180]     In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), one of Rm and R' is
hydrogen and the other is halogen. In some embodiments of such compounds, the
halogen and the pyridyl ring are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on the
cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such compounds, the halogen and the pyridyl
ring are in a cis configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0181]     In some embodiments compounds of Formula XI(a) or XI(b), one of Rm and R' is
hydrogen and the other is fluorine. In some embodiments of such compounds, the
fluorine and the pyridyl ring are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on the
cyclobutyl ring. In some embodiments of such compounds, the fluorine and the pyridyl
ring are in a cis configuration with respect to one another on the cyclobutyl ring.
[0182]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
         7
V(b), R is selected from pyrid-2-yl, 3-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 4-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl,
5-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 6-fluoro-pyrid-2-yl, 3-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 4-chloro-pyrid-2-yl,
5-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 6-chloro-pyrid-2-yl, 3-cyano-pyrid-2-yl, 4-cyano-pyrid-2-yl,
5-cyano-pyrid-2-yl, 6-cyano-pyrid-2-yl, 3-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-methyl-pyrid-2-yl,
5-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methyl-pyrid-2-yl, 3-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
4-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-difluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
3-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
6-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 3-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 4-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
5-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 3-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
4-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 5-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl, 6-aminomethyl-pyrid-2-yl,
3-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-hydroxy-pyrid-2-yl,
3-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
3-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 5-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
6-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 3-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 4-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl,
5-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 6-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-2-yl, 3-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl,
4-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl, 5-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl, 6-methylthio-pyrid-2-yl,

                                                     -48
3-carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl, 4-carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl, 5- carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl,
6- carboxamide-pyrid-2-yl and 3-fluoro-6-methyl-pyrid-2-yl.
[0183]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a) or
V(b), R7 is selected from pyrid-3-yl, 2-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 4-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl,
5-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 6-fluoro-pyrid-3-yl, 2-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 4-chloro-pyrid-3-yl,
5-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 6-chloro-pyrid-3-yl, 2-cyano-pyrid-3-yl, 4-cyano-pyrid-3-yl,
5-cyano-pyrid-3-yl, 6-cyano-pyrid-3-yl, 2-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-methyl-pyrid-3-yl,
5-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methyl-pyrid-3-yl, 2-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
4-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-difluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
2-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
6-trifluoromethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 2-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 4-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
5-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-hydroxymethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 2-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
4-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 5-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl, 6-aminomethyl-pyrid-3-yl,
2-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-hydroxy-pyrid-3-yl,
2-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
2-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 5-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
6-difluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 2-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 4-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl,
5-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 6-trifluoromethoxy-pyrid-3-yl, 2-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl,
4-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl, 5-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl, 6-methylthio-pyrid-3-yl,
2-carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl, 4-carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl, 5- carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl and
6- carboxamide-pyrid-3-yl.
[0184]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is selected from a
bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2)pO(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pS(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2)q-,
-(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,          -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2 )pC(O)NRd(CH 2
)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pNRdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2 )pSO 2NRd(CH 2)q-.
[0185]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is a bond.
[0186]     In some embodiments, the compound is of Formula XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:

                                -49
              R1
    R2N
                                    8 9       R7
                             N-,(CR R )m
              N           N
                          R4            R5 Fe
                 Formula XII(a)
              R1
   R2
   R          N           N          R
           Formula XII(b)
        R1
R2N                R8      R9
                      RR
  Formula XII(c)

                                   - 50
                    Rm      Rn
R2
          N        N
    Formula XII(d)
                   R4
                      8
                          CRR9
               mNN
                          Rm         Rn
    Formula XII(e)
 R2
                        N
                                           (R),
            S(CR             8
                               R9 )m
                       FrR              R6
           Formula XII(f)

                          -51
          NN
                              -- (RI)r
        Formula XII(g)
   RR 2
                                    -(RI)r
R2
        Formula XII(h)
        N     N
                R'"    R"
        Formula XII(i)
                                 (R
                                  -        ')r
               R4

                               -52
      R1
  R2N              R8     R9
                  N      N(RI)r
        R3
                                             (R'
                       (CR   fR9)rR
         Formula XII(j)
                                Rm  Rn
         Formula XII(k)                (R()r
R     N                     N
                I   I
             RR1)
              NN
         Formula XII(I)

                                                  -53
                      R1
       R2
                             N       R8      R9
                                                                     (RI)r
       R3             N           N                       N
                                  R4
                          Formula XII(m)
                      R1           Rm        Rn
       R2
        3             N           N
                                                               (R')r
                                  R4            N
                          Formula XII(n)
                      R1
       R2
                             N       R8      R9
                                                                     (R')r
       R3             N           N                      NN
                                   I
                                  R4
                                          R'"      Rn
                          Formula XII(o)
wherein R1 , R2 , R3 , R4 , R , R , R7 , R , R9, R', R", R', m and r are as defined herein.

                                                     - 54
[0187]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is -0-.
[0188]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is selected
from -CH 20- and -OCH 2-.
[0189]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is -NRd-.
[0190]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VIl(a), VIl(b), VIll(a), VII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is selected
from -CH 2 NRd- and -NRdCH 2 -.
[0191]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is slected from
NRdC(O)- and -C(O)NRd-.
[0192]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is slected from
CH 2 NRdC(O)- and -C(O)NRdCH 2 -.
[0193]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, each optionally substituted
with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR'R, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'R,
(CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3-8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the
C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.

                                                     - 55
[0194]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN,
(CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR'R,
(CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2NR R', C1-6 alkyl,
C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0195]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XI I(o), R2 is phenyl
substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR R, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR R,
(CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2NR Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3-8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the
C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents; wherein at least one
substitutent is bonded at the meta position.
[0196]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl

                                                     - 56
substituted with a substituent selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and (CH 2)nC(O)NRbR'; and
optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN,
(CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNR Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2NR R', C1-6 alkyl,
C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0197]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl
substituted with a substituent selected from C(O)OH, C(O)NH 2 , C(O)C16 alkyl,
C(O)NHC 1 6 alkyl and C(O)N(C 1 6 alkyl) 2 ; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3
additional substituents selected from halogen, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl.
[0198]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl
substituted at the meta position with a substituent selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and
(CH 2)nC(O)NRbRc; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected
from halogen, CN, (CH 2 )nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR R, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2 )nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8
cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and

                                                     - 57
(CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R'
substituents.
[0199]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl
substituted at the meta position with a substituent selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and
(CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected
from halogen, hydroxyl, C1-6 alkoxy, CN, C1-6 alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0200]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl
substituted at the meta position with a substituent selected from C(O)OH, C(O)NH 2 ,
C(O)C16 alkyl, C(O)NHC 1         6 alkyl and C(O)N(C 1 6 alkyl) 2 ; and optionally substituted with
1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, hydroxyl, C16 alkoxy, CN, C16
alkyl and C1-6 haloalkyl.
[0201]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl
substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is C1-6 alkyl or 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2 )nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents
selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra

                                                     - 58
(CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl
and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2 )n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0202]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is phenyl
substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is selected from C16 alkyl, C16 alkyl-OH
and C16 alkyl-NH 2, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2NR R', C1-6 alkyl,
C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, and (CH 2 )n5-10 membered heteroaryl; and optionally
substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected from halogen, CN, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR R, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR R,
(CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2NR Rc, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2 )n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the
C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2 )n5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0203]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is
3-benzamide, N-methyl-3-benzamide, N,N-dimethyl-3-benzamide, 4-fluoro-3-benzamide,

                                                     - 59
N-methyl-4-fluoro-3-benzamide, N,N-dimethyl-4-fluoro-3-benzamide, 3-benzoic acid,
methyl-3-benzoate, 4-fluoro-3-benzoic acid and methyl-4-fluoro-3-benzoate.
[0204]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is 5-10
membered heteroaryl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2 )nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8
cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R'
substituents.
[0205]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl, triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and
tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4 substituents selected from halogen,
CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2 )nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2 )nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8
cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and

                                                     - 60
(CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R'
substituents.
[0206]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl, triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and
tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with a substituent selected from (CH 2)nC(O)ORa and
(CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc; and optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 additional substituents selected
from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'R, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl
and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0207]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and triazyl, each optionally substituted with
(CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc.
[0208]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with
(CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc.
[0209]      In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),

                                                     - 61
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and triazyl, each optionally substituted with
(CH2)nC(O)NH 2.
[0210] In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX,X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with
(CH2)nC(O)NH 2.
[0211] In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX,X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl, triazyl, furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl,
isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and
tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is C1 alkyl or
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH2)nNR'Rc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(O)ORa,
(CH2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(S)ORa,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NRe)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra,
(CH2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra, (CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NR'R, (CH2)nC(S)Ra
(CH2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NR'Rc, (CH2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH2)nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra
(CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl,
(CH2)nC3- cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl
and (CH2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH2)nC3- cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl,
(CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0212]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX,X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from pyridyl, pyrimidyl, pyrazyl, pyridazyl and triazyl, each optionally substituted with
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is selected from C1 alkyl, C1 alkyl-OH and C1 alkyl-NH 2,
each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN,

                                                     - 62
(CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'R, (CH 2)nSRa
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2 )n5-10 membered heteroaryl.
[0213]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxadiazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally substituted with
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, wherein Ra is selected from C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 alkyl-OH and C1-6 alkyl-NH 2 ,
each optionally substituted with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from halogen, CN,
(CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'R, (CH 2)nSRa
(CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6
alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl,
(CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2 )n5-10 membered heteroaryl.
[0214]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from indolyl, indazolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzoxazolyl and benzoisoxazolyl, each optionally
substituted with 1, 2, 3 or 4 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa
(CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa,
(CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR'R, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'R,
(CH 2)nSRa, (CH 2 )nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3-8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl,
(CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2 )n5-1 0 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the
C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered

                                                     - 63
heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0215]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX,X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from 1H-indazol-6-yl, 1H-indazol-5-yl, 1H-indazol-4-yl, 3-amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-amino(1 H-indazol-6-yl), 3-amino(1 H-indazol-7-yl), 1-methyl(1 H-indazol-6-yl),
3-methyl(1 H-indazol-6-yl), 3-amino-1 -methyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-cyano(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-carboxamide(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-carboxamidine(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-vinyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-ethyl(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-acetamide(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-methylsulfonylamine(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-methoxycarboxamide(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-methylamino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-dimethylamino(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-ethylamino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-(2-aminoethyl)amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl),
3-(2-hydroxyethyl)amino(1 H-indazol-5-yl), 3-[(methylethyl)amino](1 H-indazol-5-yl),
6-benzimidazol-5-yl, 6-(2-methylbenzimidazol-5-yl), 2-aminobenzimidazol-5-yl,
2-hydroxybenzimidazol-5-yl, 2-acetamidebenzimidazol-5-yl,
3-aminobenzo[3,4-d]isoxazol-5-yl, 3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-6-yl,
3-aminobenzo[d]isoxazol-7-yl, 2-methylbenzoxazol-5-yl and 2-methylbenzoxazol-6-yl.
[0216]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX,X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from 3-6 membered heterocycloalkyl and 3-6 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
(CH2)nORa, (CH2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH2)nNR'Rc,
(CH2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc,
(CH2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc,
(CH2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2Ra, (CH2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH2)nC(O)Ra,
(CH2)nC(O)ORa, (CH2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH2)nC(S)Ra, (CH2)nC(S)ORa, (CH2)nC(S)NR'R,
(CH2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH2 )nSRa, (CH2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra, (CH2)nSO 2NR R', C1-6 alkyl,
C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3-8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3-8 cycloalkyl, (CH2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH2)nphenyl, (CH2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.

                                                     - 64
[0217]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R2 is selected
from aziridinyl, azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl and morpholinyl, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo,
(CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2 )nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR'Rc,
(CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(O)Ra,
(CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR'Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nC(S)NR'R,
(CH 2)nC(NR*)NR'Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2NR R', C1-6 alkyl,
C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3 -8 cycloalkyl, (CH 2)n3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nphenyl, (CH 2)nnaphthyl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0218]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), R2 is NRbR', wherein Rb and
R' are as defined herein.
[0219]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), R2 is NRbR', wherein one of
Rb and R' is hydrogen and the other is C1-6 alkyl optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
R' substituents.
[0220]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is -C(O)- and R2 is NRbR',
wherein Rb and R' are as defined herein.
[0221]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is -C(O)- and R2 is NRbR',
wherein one of Rb and R' is hydrogen and the other is C-6 alkyl optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0222]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is -(CH 2)p-and R2 is NRbRc,
wherein Rb and R' are as defined herein.

                                                  - 65
[0223]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a) or XI(b), X is -(CH 2)p-and R2 is NR'Rc,
wherein one of Rb and R' is hydrogen and the other is C1-6 alkyl optionally substituted with
1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0224]     In some embodiments, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which
they are bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms
selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optioanlly containing one or more double
bonds, and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.
[0225]     In some embodiments, the compound is of Formula XIII, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof:
                                  R
                                        N
         (Rf)t         A
                                                       8  9              R7
                                                1(CR     R   )
                                  N           N
                                               R4              R5     R6
                          Formula XIII
wherein A is a 5 or 6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms
selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double
bonds; t is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4; and R1, R4 , R5 , R6 , R7 , R8 , R9, Rf and m are as defined herein.
[0226]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula XIII, ring A together with the
pyrimidine ring to which it is bound form a group selected from quinazoline,
pyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidine, pyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidine, pyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine,
pyrido[3,2-d]pyrimidine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroquinazoline,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,2-d]pyrimidine,
thieno[3,2-d]pyrimidine, thiazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidine, 5H-pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidine, 7H-purine,
thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine, thiazolo[5,4-d]pyrimidine, 7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine, 9H-purine,
1H-pyrazolo[4,3-d]pyrimidine, 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
1H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidine, 3H-[1,2,3]triazolo[4,5-d]pyrimidine,
6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine, 6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
6,7-dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[3,2-d]pyrimidine and 6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[d]pyrimidine, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rf substituents.

                                                     - 66
[0227]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula XIII, Ring A together with the
pyrimidine ring to which it is bound form a group selected from quinazoline,
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidine,
1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine, thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine and thiazolo[5,4-d]pyrimidine, each
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents.
[0228]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is
selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R',
ORa, NRbR', C6e1o aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl.
[0229]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX,X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is
selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, hydroxyl, C1-6 alkoxy, NH2 ,
NHCj1 6 alkyl, and N(C1 -6 alkyl) 2.
[0230]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is
selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, CF 3 and methyl.
[0231]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R1 is
hydrogen.
[0232]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is selected
from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR', ORa, NR R',
C610 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl.
[0233]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is selected
from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, hydroxyl, C1-6 alkoxy, NH2, NHC 1 6
alkyl, and N(C1 6 alkyl)2.

                                                     - 67
[0234]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is selected
from hydrogen, halogen, CN, CF 3 and methyl.
[0235]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R3 is hydrogen.
[0236]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R1 and R3 are
each hydrogen.
[0237]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R4 is
selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R' and
SO 2 Ra
[0238]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n), XII(o) or XIII, R4 is
hydrogen.
[0239]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,11, 111, IV(a), IV(b), V(a), V(b),
VI, VII(a), VII(b), VIII(a), VIII(b), IX, X(a), X(b), XI(a), XI(b), XII(a), XII(b), XII(c), XII(d),
XII(e), XII(f), XII(g), XII(h), XII(i), XII(j), XII(k), XII(I), XII(m), XII(n) or XII(o), R1, R3 and R4
are each hydrogen.
[0240]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,111, IV(b), V(b), VI, VII(b),
VIII(b), IX, X(b), XI(b), XII(a), XII(c), XII(e), XII(f), XII(h), XII(j), XII(k), XII(m), XII(o) or XIII,
R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen
and C1-6 alkyl.
[0241]     In some embodiments of compounds of Formula 1,111, IV(b), V(b), VI, VII(b),
VIII(b), IX, X(b), XI(b), XII(a), XII(c), XII(e), XII(f), XII(h), XII(j), XII(k), XII(m), XII(o) or XIII,
R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each hydrogen.
[0242]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula I is
1-(2-((3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyrrole-3
carboxamide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments, a

                                               - 68
compound of Formula I is
1-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyr
role-3-carboxamide (Compound C) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In
some embodiments, a compound of Formula I is
3-(2-((-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)benzamide or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments, a compound of
Formula I is
3-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1-(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)benza
mide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0243]     In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activate is a chemical entity
chosen from compounds of Formula A and compounds of Formula B:
          R          N                                   R          N          H
                               N                                               N
                                      \ OH                                              O
          R               N                              R          N
                                 R 12                                            R12
                         Formula A                             Formula B
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein
             R" and R14 are independently selected from hydrogen, halo, hydroxy,
optionally substituted acyl, optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted amino,
optionally substituted alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, optionally substituted alkoxy, optionally
substituted aminocarbonyl, sulfonyl, sulfanyl, sulfinyl, carboxy, optionally substituted
alkoxycarbonyl, and cyano; and in the alternative, R14 and R", taken together with any
intervening atoms, form a fused ring system selected from optionally substituted fused
aryl, optionally substituted fused heteroaryl, optionally substituted fused cycloalkyl, and
optionally substituted fused heterocycloalkyl; and
             R12 is is selected from optionally substituted alkyl, optionally substituted
cycloalkyl, optionally substituted aryl, optionally substituted heteroaryl, and optionally
substituted heterocycloalkyl;
provided that
             R" is not hex-1-enyl; and further provided that
the compound of Formula XIV or the compound of Formula XV is not
             (S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
             1,5,6-trimethyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;

                                              - 69
             1-methyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            6-bromo-1 -(3-nitrobenzyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
            5-(hydroxymethyl)-1,6-dimethyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one; or
             1-(piperidin-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one.
[0244]    In some embodiments, R12 is selected from optionally substituted lower alkyl,
optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted alkoxy, and optionally substituted
heterocycloalkyl.
[0245]    In some embodiments, R12 is selected from heterocycloalkyl, cycloalkyl, lower
alkyl, and lower alkyl substituted with optionally substituted phenyl, hydroxy, optionally
substituted alkoxy, optionally substituted amino and optionally substituted
heterocycloalkyl.
[0246]    In some embodiments, R12 is selected from 1-(R)-phenylethyl, 1-(S)-phenylethyl,
benzyl, 3-pentyl, 4-heptyl, 4-methyl-1-morpholinopentan-2-y isobutyl, cyclohexyl,
cyclopropyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, isopropyl, 1-hydroxybutan-2-yl, tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl,
1-methoxybutan-2-yl, 1-aminobutan-2-yl, and 1-morpholinobutan-2-yl.
[0247]    In some embodiments, R" is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted lower alkyl, optionally substituted amino, optionally substituted pyrazolyl,
optionally substituted alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl, optionally substituted lower
alkoxy, and -S-(optionally substituted lower alkyl).
[0248]    In some embodiments, R" is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted lower alkyl, dialkylamino, amino substituted with an alkyl group and with a
group chosen from acyl, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, and sulfonyl; optionally
substituted pyrazolyl, optionally substituted alkenyl, optionally substituted alkynyl,
optionally substituted lower alkoxy, and -S-(optionally substituted lower alkyl).
[0249]    In some embodiments, R" is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
lower alkoxy, optionally substituted amino, pyrazolyl substituted with lower alkyl, -S
(optionally substituted lower alkyl), lower alkyl, and lower alkyl substituted with halo.
[0250]    In some embodiments, R" is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
lower alkoxy, dialkylamino, amino substituted with an alkyl group and with a group chosen
from acyl, aminocarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, and sulfonyl, pyrazolyl substituted with lower
alkyl, -S-(optionally substituted lower alkyl), lower alkyl, and lower alkyl substituted with
halo.

                                              - 70
[0251]     In some embodiments, R" is selected from hydrogen, bromo, chloro, fluoro,
methyl, ethyl, propyl, hexenyl, butenyl, propenyl, vinyl, ethynyl, methoxy, ethoxy,
methylsulfanyl, dimethylamino, and methyl substituted with up to three fluoro groups.
[0252]     In some embodiments, R" is selected from hydrogen, bromo, chloro, fluoro,
methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, dimethylamino, isobuten-1-yl, (Z)-propen-1-yl, (E)
propen-1-yl, propen-2-yl, vinyl, ethynyl, methoxy, ethoxy, methylsulfanyl, and
trifluoromethyl.
[0253]     In some embodiments, R1 4 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted alkyl, alkenyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted
aminocarbonyl, sulfanyl, optionally substituted amino, and optionally substituted
alkoxycarbonyl.
[0254]     In some embodiments, R1 4 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, optionally
substituted lower alkyl, lower alkenyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl, optionally
substituted aminocarbonyl, sulfanyl, optionally substituted amino, and optionally
substituted lower alkoxycarbonyl.
[0255]     In some embodiments, R1 4 is selected from hydrogen, halo, acyl, lower alkyl,
lower alkenyl, cycloalkyl, optionally substituted aminocarbonyl, sulfanyl, and lower
alkoxycarbonyl.
[0256]     In some embodiments, R1 4 is selected from hydrogen, bromo, chloro, fluoro,
acetyl, methyl, ethyl, vinyl, cyclohexen-1 -yl, methylcarbamoyl, dimethylcarbamoyl,
methylsulfanyl, and methoxycarbonyl.
[0257]     In some embodiments, R1 4 is hydrogen.
[0258]     In some embodiments, R1 4 and R", taken together with any intervening atoms,
form a fused ring system selected from optionally substituted fused aryl, optionally
substituted fused cycloalkyl, and optionally substituted fused heterocycloalkyl.
[0259]     In some embodiments, R1 4 and R" are taken together to form an optionally
substituted benzo group.
[0260]     In some embodiments, R1 4 and R" are taken together to form a benzo group.
         In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a chemical entity

                                               - 71
selected from compounds of Formula A and compounds of Formula B:
        R14               N                       R         N         H
                                    \   OH                                    O
                              NN
        R1                N                       R         N
                                R12                                     R12
                  Formula A                              Formula B
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
       R" is alkenyl or alkynyl;
       R14 is hydrogen; and
       R12 is selected from 3-pentyl, 4-heptyl, 4-methyl-1-morpholinopentan-2-y isobutyl,
cyclohexyl, cyclopropyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, isopropyl, 1-hydroxybutan-2yl,
tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl, 1-methoxybutan-2-yl, 1-aminobutan-2-yl, and
1-morpholinobutan-2-yl;
       provided that R" is not hex-1 -enyl.
[0261]    In some embodiments, the compound of Formula A is chosen from
             1-((1R)-1-methyl-2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)-6-bromoimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
             1-(ethylpropyl)-6-ethynylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
             1-(ethylpropyl)-6-methoxyimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
             1-(1, 1-dimethyl-2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)-6-bromoimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            6-(1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
             1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
             1-[(1 R)-1 -(morpholin-4-ylmethyl)propyl]-6-ethynylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
             1-(ethylpropyl)-6-{2-[1 -(ethylpropyl)-2-hydroxyimidazo[4,5-e]pyrazin-6
            yl]ethynyl}imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            6-(dimethylamino)-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            6-ethyl-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (E)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (E)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (E)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (E)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (E)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (R)-6-(methylthio)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
            (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;

                                   -72
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o1;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-(2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)(4
methylpiperazin-1 -yl)methanone;
(S)-(2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6
yl)(morpholino)methanone;
(S)-(2-hydroxy-1-(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)(piperidin-1
yl)methanone;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2-ol;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-6-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-6-propyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-1 -(2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)ethanone;
(S)-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carbonitrile;
(S)-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carboxamide;
(S)-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carboxylic acid;
(S)-2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6
carboxamide;
(S)-2-hydroxy-N-methyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6
carboxamide;
(S)-6-((4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-((dimethylamino)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-(2-hydroxypropan-2-yl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-(2-methylprop-1 -enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-(methylsulfonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-(methylthio)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-(morpholinomethyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o1;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;

                                   -73
(S)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-cyclohexenyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-cyclohexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-ethoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-ethyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-hexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-isobutyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-6-methoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(S)-methyl 2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6
carboxylate;
(S)-N,N-diethyl-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6
carboxamide;
(S)-N-benzyl-2-hydroxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6
carboxamide;
(S,E)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o1;
(S,Z)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-o1;
(S,Z)-6-(hex-2-enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
(Z)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(1 -aminobutan-2-yl)-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-5-yl)ethanone;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-2,6-diol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-5-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -ynyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-benzyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-benzyl-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-cyclohexyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;

                                  -74
1-cyclopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
1-isopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)-1-morpholinobutan-1
one;
2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)butanoic acid;
2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1 -yl)propane-1,3-diol;
2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylic acid;
2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-6-carbonitrile;
2-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxamide;
2-hydroxy-N-methyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxamide;
5-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
5-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
5-ethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-(methylsulfinyl)-1 -((S)-1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2
ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(dimethylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(methylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -methoxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(2-methyl-1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(2-morpholinoethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -cyclohexyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -cyclopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -isopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-bromo-1 -tert-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-cyclopropyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;

                                            - 75
          6-methoxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
          6-methyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
          methyl 2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-im idazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylate;
          methyl 4-(2-(6-bromo-2-hydroxy-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1
          yl)butyl)piperazine-1 -carboxylate;
           1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(1 -methylpyrazol-4-yl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
          6-bromo-1 -(propylbutyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
           1-[(1 R)-3-methyl-1 -(morpholin-4-ylmethyl)butyl]-6-bromoimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
          2-ol;
           1-(ethylpropyl)-6-vinylimidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
           1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(1 -methylvinyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
           1-(ethylpropyl)-6-(methylethyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol;
          6-chloro-1-(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol; and
          6-(dimethylamino)-1 -(ethylpropyl)imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol,
          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0262]  In some embodiments, the compound of Formula B is chosen from the following
tautomers of compounds of Formula A:
          (R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          6-methoxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          6-bromo-1 -(2-methyl-1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
          2(3H)-one;
           1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(1 H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
           1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          (R)-6-ethynyl-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          6-((2-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-6-yl)ethynyl)-1
          (pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          6-(dimethylamino)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          6-ethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          (E)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          (E)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          (E)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
          (E)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;

                                   - 76
(E)-6-(prop-1-enyl)-1-(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
(R)-6-(methylthio)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-6-(piperidin-1-ylmethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
(S)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(piperidine-1 -carbonyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
(S)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-6-propyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carbonitrile;
(S)-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxamide;
(S)-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxylic acid;
(S)-6-((4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-((dimethylamino)methyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(2-hydroxypropan-2-yl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(2-methylprop-1 -enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
(S)-6-(4-methylpiperazine-1 -carbonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(methylsulfonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(methylthio)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;

                                   -77
(S)-6-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-(morpholinomethyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
(S)-6-acetyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -hydroxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-bromo-1 -sec-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-cyclohexenyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-cyclohexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-ethoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-ethyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-hexyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-isobutyl-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-6-methoxy-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S)-methyl 2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxylate;
(S)-N,N-diethyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine
5-carboxamide;
(S)-N,N-dimethyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazine-5-carboxamide;
(S)-N-benzyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxamide;
(S)-N-methyl-2-oxo-3-(1 -phenylethyl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxamide;
(S,E)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S,Z)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(S,Z)-6-(hex-2-enyl)-1 -(1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -cyclohexyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -cyclopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(Z)-1 -isopropyl-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;

                                   -78
(Z)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
1-(1 -aminobutan-2-yl)-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(1 -morpholinobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]quinoxalin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-5-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -ynyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(trifluoromethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-benzyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-benzyl-6-bromo-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-cyclohexyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-cyclopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-isopropyl-6-(methylthio)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
2-(6-bromo-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1-yl)butanoic acid;
2-oxo-1-(pentan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carboxylic acid;
2-oxo-3-(pentan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5-carbonitrile;
5-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
5-acetyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
5-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
5-ethyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-(methylsulfinyl)-1 -((S)-1 -phenylethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-(methylthio)-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-(methylsulfonyl)piperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(4-methylpiperazin-1 -yl)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(dimethylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -(methylamino)butan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1,3-dihydroxypropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(1 -methoxybutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;

                                  -79
6-bromo-1 -(1 -morpholino-1 -oxobutan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
6-bromo-1-(2-methyl-1-morpholinopropan-2-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(2-morpholinoethyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -cyclohexyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -cyclopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -isopropyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-bromo-1 -tert-butyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-cyclopropyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-hydroxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-methoxy-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-methyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
methyl 2-oxo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxylate;
methyl 4-(2-(6-bromo-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-1
yl)butyl)piperazine-1 -carboxylate;
N,N-dimethyl-2-oxo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxamide;
N-methyl-2-oxo-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-2,3-dihydro-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazine-5
carboxamide;
6-(i -methyl-1 H-pyrazol-4-yl)-i -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)
one;
6-bromo-1 -(heptan-4-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
(R)-6-bromo-1 -(4-methyl-1 -morpholinopentan-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-vinyl-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
1-(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -en-2-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-isopropyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one;
6-chloro-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-i H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one; and
6-(dimethylamino)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one,

                                             - 80
             or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0263]     In some embodiments, the compound of Formula A is 6-bromo-1-(pentan-3-yl)
1H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some
embodiments, the compound of formula A is 6-ethynyl-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazin-2-ol (Compound A) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
[0264]     The compounds of Formula A can be named and numbered (e.g., using
NamExpert     TM available from Cheminnovation or the automatic naming feature of
ChemDraw Ultra version 10.0 from Cambridge Soft Corporation) as described below. For
example, the compound:
                                         ~- N     N -O H
i.e., the compound according to Formula A where R" is (E)-propen-1yl, R12 is (S)-sec
phenethyl, and R14 is H, can be named (S,E)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1-enyl)-1H
imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2-ol.
[0265]     Likewise the compound:
                                                  .1  OH
                                            N     N
i.e., the compound according to Formula A where R" is (Z)-propen-1 -yl, R12 is 3-pentyl,
and R14 is H, can be named (Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2-ol.
[0266]     Similarly, the compounds of Formula B can be named and numbered (e.g., using
NamExpert     TM available from Cheminnovation or the automatic naming feature of
ChemDraw Ultra version 10.0 from Cambridge Soft Corporation) as described below. For
example, the compound:
                                                  H
                                        --  N     N
i.e., the compound according to Formula B where R" is (E)-propen-1-yl, R12 is (S)-sec
phenethyl, and R14 is H, can be named (S,E)-1-(1-phenylethyl)-6-(prop-1-enyl)-1H
imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin-2(3H)-one.

                                              - 81
[0267]     Likewise the compound:
                                                    H
                                                  NN
i.e., the compound according to Formula B where R" is (Z)-propen-1-yl, R12 is 3-pentyl,
and R14 is H, can be named (Z)-1 -(pentan-3-yl)-6-(prop-1 -enyl)-1 H-imidazo[4,5-b]pyrazin
2(3H)-one.
[0268]     Methods of preparing compounds of the present disclosure are readily available
in the art. WO 2011/133888 provides synthesis methods for Formulas |-XIII. United State
Patent No. 7,956,056, for instance, discloses methods of preparing compounds of
Formula A and Formula B.
[0269]     It is also contemplated that skeletal muscle troponin activators suitable for
methods of the present disclosure can be compounds disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos.
8,227,603, 8,063,082, 7,989,469, 7,956,056, 7,851,484, and 7,598,248, and PCT
Publication Nos. WO/2013/010015, WO/2011/0133922, WO/2011/0133920,
WO/2011/133888, WO/2011/133882, WO/2009/099594, and WO/2008/016648. The
contents of these patents and patent applications are incorporated into the present
disclosure by references in their entirety.
[0270]     The chemical entities described herein are useful for improving resistance to
muscle fatigue in a subject in need thereof. The improvement in resistance to skeletal
muscle fatigue in the subject may be determined by a bilateral heel-raise test, wherein the
bilateral heel-raise test comprises performing heel raises at regular intervals; monitoring
claudication symptoms; determining the value of one or more parameters selected from
claudication onset, number of heel raises to claudication onset, work to claudication onset,
time to maximal claudication fatigue, number of heel raises to maximal claudication
fatigue, and work to maximal claudication fatigue; and wherein an increase in the one or
more parameters indicates an improvement in resistance to fatigue in the subject. The
bilateral heel raise test may be performed at any time after administration of a skeletal
muscle troponin activator, e.g., about 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, or 48 or more hours after
administration of the chemical entity.
[0271]     In certain embodiments, the parameter is time to claudication onset. In certain
embodiments, the parameter is number of heel raises to claudication onset, work to
claudication onset, time to maximal claudication fatigue, number of heel raises to maximal
claudication fatigue, or work to maximal claudication fatigue.

                                              - 82
[0272]     The chemical entities described herein are useful for treating subjects with
disorders that increase muscle fatigue. Such disorders may include, for example,
peripheral artery disease, claudication, and muscle ischemia.
[0273]     In peripheral vascular disease, vascular insufficiency results in diminished blood
flow to tissues downstream of an obstruction leading to claudication (muscle pain during
activities such as walking or stair climbing). Since claudication is the result of insufficient
arterial blood delivery to meet the metabolic demands of working muscles that results in
muscle ischemia and fatigue, fast skeletal troponin activators can be used to ameliorate
fatigue induced by such vascular insufficiency. Thus, in some embodiments, the method
comprises administering to a subject suffering from peripheral vascular disease or
claudication an effective amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator. In some
embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator improves resistance to skeletal
muscle fatigue in the subject suffering from peripheral vascular disease or claudication.
[0274]     Also provided are methods for enhancing fast skeletal muscle efficiency in a
patient suffering from heart failure, comprising administering to said patient an effective
amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator as described herein that selectively binds
the troponin complex of fast skeletal muscle fiber or sarcomere. In some embodiments,
the skeletal muscle troponin activator as described herein activates fast skeletal muscle
fibers or sarcomeres. In some embodiments, administration of a skeletal muscle troponin
activator as described herein results in an increase in fast skeletal muscle power output.
In some embodiments, administration of a skeletal muscle troponin activator as described
herein results in increased sensitivity of fast skeletal muscle fibers or sarcomeres to
calcium ion, as compared to fast skeletal muscle fibers or sarcomeres untreated with the
compound. In some embodiments, administration of a skeletal muscle troponin activator
as described herein results in a lower concentration of calcium ions causing fast skeletal
muscle myosin to bind to actin. In some embodiments, administration of a skeletal muscle
troponin activator as described herein results in the fast skeletal muscle fiber generating
force to a greater extent at submaximal levels of muscle activation. In any of these
embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator may be a fast skeletal muscle
troponin activator.
[0275]     Also provided is a method for increasing time to fast skeletal muscle fatigue in a
patient suffering from heart failure, comprising contacting fast skeletal muscle fibers with a
skeletal muscle troponin activator that selectively binds to the troponin complexes of the
fast skeletal muscle fibers. In some embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator

                                              - 83
binds to form ligand-troponin-calcium ion complexes that activate the fast skeletal muscle
fibers. In some embodiments, formation of the complexes and/or activation of the fast
skeletal muscle fibers results in enhanced force and/or increased time to fatigue as
compared to untreated fast skeletal muscle fibers contacted with a similar calcium ion
concentration. In any of these embodiments, the skeletal muscle troponin activator may
be a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator.
[0276]     The chemical entities described herein are administered at a therapeutically
effective dosage, e.g., a dosage sufficient to provide treatment for the disease states
previously described. While human dosage levels have yet to be optimized for the
chemical entities described herein, generally, a daily dose ranges from about 0.05 to 100
mg/kg of body weight; in certain embodiments, from about 0.10 to 10.0 mg/kg of body
weight, and in certain embodiments, from about 0.15 to 1.0 mg/kg of body weight. Thus,
for administration to a 70 kg person, in certain embodiments, the dosage range would be
about from 3.5 to 7000 mg per day; in certain embodiments, about from 7.0 to 750.0 mg
per day, and in certain embodiments, about from 10.0 to 100.0 mg per day. The amount of
the chemical entity administered will, of course, be dependent on the subject and disease
state being treated, the severity of the affliction, the manner and schedule of
administration and the judgment of the prescribing physician; for example, a likely dose
range for oral administration would be from about 70 to 700 mg per day, whereas for
intravenous administration a likely dose range would be from about 70 to 750 mg per day
depending on compound pharmacokinetics. In certain embodiments, the dose range is
about 200-750 mg per day, or about 300-600 mg per day. Specific dosage amounts
include 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600 and 750 mg per day. In further
embodiments, the chemical entity is administered in an amount sufficient to maintain a
mean plasma concentration of at least about 5 pg/ml for 24 hours, or, alternatively, 10
pg/ml, 12 pg/ml, 14 pg/ml, 16 pg/ml , or 20 pg/ml for 24 hours.
[0277]     Administration of the chemical entities described herein can be via any of the
accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar utilities including, but not
limited to, orally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intravenously, intranasally, topically,
transdermally, intraperitoneally, intramuscularly, intrapulmonarilly, vaginally, rectally, or
intraocularly. In some embodiments, oral or parenteral administration is used.
[0278]     Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions include solid, semi-solid, liquid and
aerosol dosage forms, such as, e.g., tablets, capsules, powders, liquids, suspensions,
suppositories, aerosols or the like. The chemical entities can also be administered in

                                              - 84
sustained or controlled release dosage forms, including depot injections, osmotic pumps,
pills, transdermal (including electrotransport) patches, and the like, for prolonged and/or
timed, pulsed administration at a predetermined rate. In certain embodiments, the
compositions are provided in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of a
precise dose.
[0279]     The chemical entities described herein can be administered either alone or more
typically in combination with a conventional pharmaceutical carrier, excipient or the like
(e.g., mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine, talcum,
cellulose, sodium crosscarmellose, glucose, gelatin, sucrose, magnesium carbonate, and
the like). If desired, the pharmaceutical composition can also contain minor amounts of
nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting agents, emulsifying agents, solubilizing
agents, pH buffering agents and the like (e.g., sodium acetate, sodium citrate,
cyclodextrine derivatives, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine acetate, triethanolamine
oleate, and the like). Generally, depending on the intended mode of administration, the
pharmaceutical composition will contain about 0.005% to 95%; in certain embodiments,
about 0.5% to 50% by weight of a chemical entity. Actual methods of preparing such
dosage forms are known, or will be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see
Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pennsylvania.
[0280]     In certain embodiments, the compositions will take the form of a pill or tablet and
thus the composition will contain, along with the active ingredient, a diluent such as
lactose, sucrose, dicalcium phosphate, or the like; a lubricant such as magnesium
stearate or the like; and a binder such as starch, gum acacia, polyvinylpyrrolidine, gelatin,
cellulose, cellulose derivatives or the like. In another solid dosage form, a powder,
marume, solution or suspension (e.g., in propylene carbonate, vegetable oils or
triglycerides) is encapsulated in a gelatin capsule.
[0281]     Liquid pharmaceutically administrable compositions can, for example, be
prepared by dissolving, dispersing, etc. at least one chemical entity and optional
pharmaceutical adjuvants in a carrier (e.g., water, saline, aqueous dextrose, glycerol,
glycols, ethanol or the like) to form a solution or suspension. Injectables can be prepared
in conventional forms, either as liquid solutions or suspensions, as emulsions, or in solid
forms suitable for dissolution or suspension in liquid prior to injection. The percentage of
chemical entities contained in such parenteral compositions is highly dependent on the
specific nature thereof, as well as the activity of the chemical entities and the needs of the
subject. However, percentages of active ingredient of 0.01% to 10% in solution are

                                                - 85
employable, and will be higher if the composition is a solid which will be subsequently
diluted to the above percentages. In certain embodiments, the composition will comprise
from about 0.2 to 2% of the active agent in solution.
[0282]    Pharmaceutical compositions of the chemical entities described herein may also
be administered to the respiratory tract as an aerosol or solution for a nebulizer, or as a
microfine powder for insufflation, alone or in combination with an inert carrier such as
lactose. In such a case, the particles of the pharmaceutical composition have diameters of
less than 50 microns, in certain embodiments, less than 10 microns.
[0283]    The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein may be
administered alone or in combination with other therapies and/or therapeutic agents useful
in the treatment of a disease or disorder.
[0284]    The compounds and compositions described and/or disclosed herein may be
combined with one or more other therapies to treat heart failure. Suitable additional
therapeutics include digoxin, omecamtiv mecarbil, antiplatelet drug therapy such
as,aspirin, ticlopidine, and clopidogrel; beta blocker therapy such as metoprolol or
carvedilol; ACE inhibitors (i.e. inhibitors of angiotensin-converting enzyme) such as
perindopril, captopril, enalapril, lisinopril, and ramipril; diuretics such as ethacrynic acid,
torsemide, bumetanide, hydrochlorothiazide, acetazolamide, methazolamide,
spironolactone, potassium canreonate, amiloride, and triamterene; calcium channel
blockers such as amlodipine, aranidipine, azelnidipine, barnidipine, benidipine, cilnidipine,
clevidipine, isradipine, efonidipine, felodipine, lacidipine, lercanidipine, manidipine,
nicardipine, nifedipine, nilvadipine, nimodipine, nisoldipine, nitrendipine, pranidipine,
verapamil, diltiazem, mibefradil, bepridil, fluspirilene, and fendiline; statins such as
atorvastatin, cerivastatin, fluvastatin, lovastatin, mevastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin,
rosuvastatin, and simvastatin; aldosterone antagonists such as eplerenone, canrenone,
prorenone, and mexrenone; and angiotensin || receptor antagonists such as losartan,
candesartan, valsartan, irbesartan, telmisartan, perosartan, olmesartan, and azilsartan.
Other suitable additional therapies include angioplasty, stenting, or surgery (e.g., bypass
surgery or surgery to remove an atherosclerotic plaque).
[0285]    The above therapeutic agents, when employed in combination with the
compounds and compositions disclosed and/or described herein, may be used, for
example, in those amounts indicated in the Physicians' Desk Reference (PDR) or as
otherwise determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

                                                  - 86
[0286]     The above therapeutic agents, when employed in combination with the
compounds and compositions disclosed and/or described herein may be administered
sequentially, simultaneously, or in various combinations. For example, administration of
compositions of the disclosure is "A" and the additional therapeutic is "B," exemplary
combinations include A/B/A, B/A/B, B/B/A, A/A/B, A/B/B, B/A/A, A/B/B/B, B/A/B/B,
B/B/B/A, B/B/A/B, A/A/B/B, A/B/A/B, A/B/B/A, B/B/A/A, B/A/B/A, B/A/A/B, A/A/A/B,
B/A/A/A, A/B/A/A, A/A/B/A, and the like.
[0287]     The following examples serve to more fully describe the disclosed compounds
the methods. It is understood that these examples in no way serve to limit the true scope
of this invention, but rather are presented for illustrative purposes.
Example 1: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on isometric tension
in rat FDB muscle live fibers
[0288]     The fast skeletal troponin activator 6-ethynyl-1-(pentan-3-yl)-1H-imidazo[4,5
b]pyrazin-2-ol (Compound A) selectively sensitizes fast skeletal muscle to calcium ions by
binding to the sarcomeric troponin complex and slowing the rate of Ca2 ' release from
troponin C. At the biochemical level, Compound A addition to fast skeletal myofibrils
results in a leftward-shift of the myosin ATPase relationship to Ca2, concentration.
Compound A has little or no effect in myofibrils from slow skeletal and cardiac muscle
illustrating its selectivity profile for fast skeletal muscle. Isothermal titration calorimetry
has further confirmed a direct interaction of Compound A with fast skeletal troponin (KD        =
40 nM). In chemically 'skinned' human vastus lateralis fibers from muscle biopsies (with
the plasma membranes made freely permeable to Ca2,), treatment of fast fibers with
Compound A dramatically left-shifts the plot of the force-calcium relationship without
increasing the maximum force or the shape of the curve. Skinned fast skeletal muscle
fibers from rabbit psoas muscle show similar fiber-type selectivity and leftward-shift of the
force-calcium relationship. The leftward-shift of the force-calcium relationship of muscle
fibers and a corresponding shift in the force-frequency relationship of nerve-muscle pairs
in situ demonstrate that Compound A increases muscle force at sub-maximal nerve
stimulation rates and sensitizes fast skeletal muscle to Ca2 , (A.J. Russell et al. Nature
Medicine, 2011;378:667-75).
[0289]     Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (Charles River) between 250 and 300g were
anesthetized with a mixture of isoflurane gas and oxygen and quickly euthanized by
cardiac excision. Hind feet were quickly removed at the ankle and placed in oxygenated

                                            - 87
Krebs solution at 40C (composition: 1 mM NaH 2 PO4 , 5 mM KCI, 2 mM CaC12, 1 mM
MgSO 4 , 137 mM NaCl, 11 mM glucose and 1 mM NaHCO 3). Feet were then pinned out in
fresh oxygenated Krebs buffer at room temperature and the skin from the sole of the foot
removed with scissors. In rats, a small branch of the main flexor digitorum brevis (FDB)
muscle extends from the heel of the foot to the little digit. This was dissected free with
small scissors and the tendons at each end of the muscle were cut. The muscle was
pinned out in Krebs solution and the surrounding fascia removed. Silk thread was tied
with a small loop and then knotted on to the end of each tendon, creating a silk loop at
each end of the muscle. This was then hooked on to the fixed lever arm and force
transducer of an 801A in vitro analysis system (Aurora Scientific, Ontario, Canada) and
perfused with Krebs solution at 300C.
[0290]     The effect of 10 pM of Compound A on the force/frequency relationship was
measured. As shown in FIG. 1, Compound A increased sub-maximal force development
of rat FDB muscle in vitro (mean specific tension +/- S.D.; * p<0.05 vs. baseline; n=6).
Example 2: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on fatigue of isometric
tension in rat FDB muscle live fibers
[0291]     The isometric fatigue protocol was based on published studies (Germinario et al,
2004). Isolated rat FDB muscles were incubated at 4'C with either 0.1% DMSO Krebs
buffer or buffer containing 5pM Compound A for 30 minutes. The tissues were then
transferred to an isometric force transducer at 30'C with the same concentration of DMSO
or Compound A. Muscles were stimulated via field electrodes with supra maximal voltage
to tetanus (120 Hz stimulation, 1 ms pulses, 350 ms duration) every minute and the length
adjusted to achieve maximal tension development (L.) which was recorded. The
stimulation frequency was adjusted to achieve 50% of maximal force for each tissue: The
average stimulation frequency required to achieve FMax 50% (mean +/- sd) for 0.1%
DMSO was: 32.4 +/- 3.3 Hz, and for 5 M Compound A it was 20.5 +/- 4.9 Hz. The
muscles were then stimulated every six seconds for 15 minutes with field electrodes (1 ms
stimulus, 350 ms trains) which produced a rapid drop in developed force over the course
of 900 seconds for both the control fibers and Compound A fibers, with the control group
showing a greater and more rapid drop in tension than the Compound A group. FIG. 2
shows that the average maximal force (Fmax) of control fibers fell to 24.38±4.3% of initial
tension (11.8±1.9% of fMax) (lower plot) whereas Compound A only fell to 53.9±2.1% of
initial tension at 900 seconds (28.4±1.2% fMax) (upper plot).

                                             - 88
Example 3: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on isometric tension
relaxation time in rat EDL muscle in situ
[0292]    As with the in vitro FDB muscle studies, another predominately fast muscle fiber
type, the extensor digitorum longus (EDL), was stimulated toward contractions in
unconscious rats in situ. In these isometric muscle studies (measuring force at fixed
length), force, time to peak contraction, time to half relaxation after cessation of
stimulation (RT1/2) and baseline tension were determined. These studies have the
advantage that the nerve and muscle pair were intact and had typical blood flow to the
muscle under investigation.
[0293]    Rats were placed under anesthesia using isoflurane and the skin around the
experimental leg was removed. The distal end of the EDL muscle and its associated
tendon were then isolated. The rat was then placed on the platform of an Aurora in-situ
muscle analysis rig (806C), maintained at body temperature via a circulating water
system. The knee was immobilized in a clamp between two sharpened screws and the
distal tendon cut and tied to the arm of a force transducer (Aurora Scientific, Ontario,
Canada) using a silk suture. The muscle was stimulated directly via the peroneal nerve.
For isolation of the nerve, a 1 cm incision was made at the upper thigh and the overlying
gastrocnemius muscle was cut to expose an approximate 5 mm stretch of the peroneal
nerve. This was then dissected free of surrounding connective tissue and a pair of
stainless steel needle electrodes (0.10 mm) were hooked around the exposed nerve.
Muscle contractile properties were assessed by applying an electrical current to the nerve
and recording the force generated by the muscle via a servomotor. The muscle length
was adjusted to produce the maximum isometric force (L.) after sub-maximal stimulation
(30 Hz, 1 ms pulses, 350 ms train duration). Once L. had been established, the nerve
was stimulated every 2 minutes with a 30 Hz train (1 ms stimuli, 350 ms duration) for the
course of the experiment. This preparation was stable for 4-6 hours.
Once the length of the muscle was adjusted and a steady baseline force was achieved,
solutions of Compound A (50% PEG300/1 0% EtOH/40% cavitron formulation) were
administered via a femoral artery catheter as a single slow bolus over a 2 min period.
Dose escalation was commonly carried out up to 10 mg/Kg with a maximal dosage
volume of 5 ml/Kg. Treatment with Compound A resulted in an increase in sub-maximal
force without increasing maximal force, similar to changes in force development observed
in FDB muscles in vitro. The in situ relaxation time following arterial infusion of tirasemtiv

                                             - 89
revealed proportional changes in relaxation time with force up to a dose of 10 mg/kg (FIG.
3). These studies confirmed that the skeletal muscle troponin activator Compound A
activated sub-maximal skeletal muscle force in situ with a similar pattern of activity to
studies of FDB muscle fibers in vitro and demonstrated a corresponding increase in
relaxation time by approximately 3.5-fold at 10 mg/kg doses.
Example 4: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on fatigue in rat EDL
muscle in situ
[0294]    With the rat in situ EDL muscle preparation described in Example 3, a fatiguing
protocol was utilized where muscle was stimulated for 600 seconds. In vehicle-treated
rats EDL muscle was electrically stimulated via the peroneal nerve at 30 Hz. Because
Compound A reduces the necessary stimulation frequency to achieve the same isometric
tension, the peroneal nerve stimulation frequency was reduced in Compound A treated
(1mg/kg) rats to ensure similar force production to pre-dose levels (the average
stimulation frequency of approximately 26Hz was utilized for Compound A treated rats).
Compound A or vehicle was delivered via duodenal cannula. To elicit muscle fatigue, the
EDL muscle was stimulated with 350 msec electrical trains every 3 seconds for ten
minutes at a frequency producing an initial force equal to 50% of maximal (FMax5o) as
determined by the force-frequency relationship for each animal. The results, as
summarized in FIG. 4, indicate that Compound A decreased rat EDL muscle fatigue in
situ.
Example 5: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on fatigue in rat EDL
muscle following femoral artery ligation (FAL)
[0295]    With the rat in situ EDL muscle preparation described in Example 3, a fatiguing
protocol was utilized where muscle was stimulated for 600 seconds. Vehicle-treated
muscle was electrically stimulated at 30 Hz while the stimulation frequency was reduced
in Compound A treated rats to ensure similar force production to pre-dose levels, prior to
femoral artery ligation (average stimulation frequency of 29 and 26Hz, for 0.5 mg/kg and
1mg/kg Compound A, respectively). This protocol produced a robust and reproducible
fatigue in EDL muscle following femoral artery ligation, with a transient increase to
136.0±6.8% of initial force over the first 90-100 seconds, followed by a rapid drop in force
before stabilization at approximately 40% of initial force. The initial rise in tension is
believed to be due to Pi-induced increases in free intracellular Ca2 ' due to inhibition of

                                               - 90
sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca 2,-ATPases         (SERCAs) pumping into the SR (Allen,
Physiol Rev 88:287-332, 2008). Following ligation of the femoral artery (R.A. Challiss et
al. Biochem J. 1986 Dec 1;240(2):395-401) Compound A was administered in solution
(50% PEG300/1 0% EtOH/40% Cavitron formulation) via a jugular vein catheter as a
single slow bolus over a 2 min period.
[0296]     As shown in FIG. 5, treatment with Compound A produced a dose-dependent
increase in the time to fatigue and tension-generating capacity in the FAL rats compared
to vehicle-treated animals. Thus, the fatigue protocol in Compound A treated rats resulted
in a longer rise to a greater initial increase in force to 156.3±10.4% of initial force over
 160-170 seconds, compared to vehicle treated animals. Time for force to decrease to
50% of initial force was lengthened from 259±30 seconds to 752±64 seconds (P<0.0001,
T-test).
Example 6: Effect of fast skeletal muscle troponin activators on rat plantor flexor
force and power in situ
[0297]     Rats were placed under anesthesia using isoflurane and the sciatic nerve of the
experimental leg exposed. The rat was then placed on the platform of an Aurora in-situ
muscle analysis rig (806C), maintained at body temperature via a circulating water
system. The knee was immobilized in a clamp between two sharpened screws and the
foot attached securely to the footplate of a force transducer (Aurora Scientific, Ontario,
Canada) using laboratory tape. The muscle was stimulated directly via the sciatic
nerve. For isolation of the nerve, a 1 cm incision was made at the upper thigh and the
overlying muscle was dissected to expose an approximate 5 mm stretch of the sciatic
nerve. This was then dissected free of surrounding connective tissue and a pair of
stainless steel needle electrodes (0.10 mm) were hooked around the exposed nerve. The
peroneal branch was severed to remove innervation to the plantar-extensor muscle
groups. Muscle contractile properties were assessed by applying an electrical current to
the nerve and recording the force generated by the muscle via a servomotor. Isokinetic
contractile properties were assessed as force generated during a pre-programmed
movement of the footplate. Footplate movements were 0.7 radians in size (400 C).
[0298]     Solutions of Compound A (50% PEG300/10% EtOH/40% cavitron formulation)
were administered via a femoral vein catheter as a single slow bolus over a 2 min period,
with a maximal dosage volume of 5 ml/Kg. During the experiment, blood was drawn via
the tail vein for compound concentration analysis. At the end of each assay, the length

                                             - 91
and weight of the muscle was recorded, and measured force normalized to the mass of
the muscle (N/g).
[0299]     The results are summarized in FIGS. 6A-6D. As shown in FIG. 6A, the isometric
force frequency relationship for rat plantarflexor muscles increased in the submaximal
range in a dose dependent manner following administration of Compound A. As shown in
FIG. 6B, the isokinetic force frequency relationship (at 3.1 radians/s) increased in the
submaximal range in a dose dependent manner following administration of Compound A.
As shown in FIG. 6C, the force-velocity relationship at 30Hz increased across all velocities
in a dose and velocity dependent manner. As shown in FIG. 6D, the power output
corresponding to the force velocities in FIG. 6C displayed a dose dependent increase,
while maintaining similar maximum power characteristics. FIG. 6E shows force
generation during an isokinetic fatigue protocol of 1 flexion per second at 3.1 radians/s
with 0.7 radian displacement and 30Hz stimulation frequency. Compound A increased
force generation throughout the curve to generate a total of 55% more work over the 300
second period, while maintaining a similar profile to that of the vehicle.
[0300]     The same protocol was repeated with a second skeletal muscle troponin
activator, 1-((1R)-1-methylpropyl)-6-chloro-7-pyrazolylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridin-2-ol
(Compound B). Compound B and analogous skeletal muscle troponin activators are
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,989,469. The results are summarized in FIGS. 7A-7F. As
shown in FIG. 7A, the isometric force frequency relationship for rat plantarflexor muscles
increased in the submaximal range in a dose dependent manner following administration
of Compound B. As shown in FIG. 7B, the isokinetic force frequency relationship (at 3.1
radians/s) increased in the submaximal range in a dose dependent manner following
administration of Compound B. As shown in FIG. 7C, the force-velocity relationship at
30Hz increased across all velocities in a dose and velocity dependent manner. As shown
in FIG. 7D, the power output corresponding to the force velocity curves in FIG. 7C
displayed a dose-dependent increase, while maintaining similar maximum power
characteristics. FIG. 7E shows force generation during an isokinetic fatigue protocol of 1
flexion per second at 3.1 radians/s with 0.7 radian displacement and 30Hz stimulation
frequency. Compound B increased force generation throughout the curve to generate a
total of 105% more work over the 300 second period, while maintaining a similar profile to
that of the vehicle. FIG. 7F shows force generation during an isokinetic fatigue protocol of
 1 flexion per second at 3.1 radians/s. 0.7 radian displacement and stimulation frequency
calculated to provide 50% of maximum isokinetic tension. Compound B maintained force

                                              - 92
generation throughout the curve, at almost 50% of vehicle stimulation frequency, to
generate the same total work over the 300 second period, while maintaining a similar
profile to that of the vehicle.
Example 7: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on cage grid hang
time in healthy rats
[0301]     Static fatigue in conscious rats was assessed by measuring the length of time
that healthy female rats would hang upside down from a cage grid. Rats were trained to
hang upside-down from a cage grid and the time to drop to soft padding below was
recorded. Baseline hang-times were recorded for each animal (n=24) for a two week
period of time. The rats were then treated with Compound A (200 ppm) in chow for two
weeks while hang times were monitored daily. Finally, the rats were withdrawn from
Compound A in their chow for five days while hang times were recorded daily.
[0302]     The mean cage hang performance in the rats over the baseline period showed a
significant improvement in their ability to hang upside-down. Thus, hang-time
performance at the end of the baseline period was significantly greater than at the
initiation of the baseline period when comparing individual performance (the final three
days of baseline testing yielded an increase to 116 ± 4% mean ± sem, of baseline
performance for control rats; 618 +/- 65 sec). As shown in FIG. 8, rats fed chow
containing Compound A (200 ppm) over a two week period increased their grid hang time
from 116% tol 60 ± 18% for the average final three days of Compound A dosing
compared to baseline (p<0.02 by paired T-test; 899 +/- 157 secs). Withdrawal of
Compound A for five days led to a decrease in hang-time performance in the majority of
animals, as measured by normalized performance (average final three days of five day
period=124 ± 12%, p<0.001 by paired T-test; 698 +/- 122 sec).
Example 8: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on rotarod running
assay in healthy rats
[0303]     Female Sprague Dawley rats (210-260g) were obtained from Charles River
Laboratories and acclimated in the test facility for a minimum of six days prior to the start
of the study. All rats were trained the day prior to compound administration. Training
consisted of placing the rats on the rotating drum (rod), starting at a low constant speed
(10 RPM). The rats were acclimated to walk on the drum for 5 minutes before resting. A
second training session of an increasing speed from 14-16 RPM was initiated after all rats

                                             - 93
in the experimental group had finished the first training session. Those rats that failed to
run during the course of the training were removed from the experiment. On the day of
the experiment animals were dosed thirty minutes prior to start of test. The test began
with a 5 minute primer session, whereby animals were run at an increasing speed from
14-16 RPM over 5 minutes. Rats were then run at a constantly accelerating rate from 12
RPM to 25 RPM over the course of 10 minutes. Once 25 RPM had been reached, a
constant speed of 25 RPM was maintained for an additional 5 minutes. Time to fall was
recorded, with the test being terminated at 900 seconds.
[0304]   Compound A was administered via oral gavage 30 minutes prior to assessment.
Each dose was formulated as a suspension containing 0.2% Tween 80, 0.5% HPMC and
water. Dose volume was 5 mL/kg. Vehicle (0.2% Tween 80, 0.5% HPMC and water) was
administered similarly. Control treatments were chosen based on association with
amelioration of central fatigue (caffeine, Davis 2003), muscular fatigue (creatine,
Boyadjiev, 2007) and dual cental/muscular fatigue (phosphoserine, Fanelli 1976).
Creatinine (300mg/kg), caffeine (10mg/kg) and phosphoserine (1000mg/kg) were
administered in water by oral gavage 60 min, 30 min and 24 hours prior to test
respectively.
[0305]   As shown in FIG. 9 and in Table 1 below, rats administered Compound A
showed a dose-dependent increased in running time on a slowly accelerating rotarod, with
3 mg/kg dose showing more than a doubling of running time at maximum dose tested.
Rats administered creatine, caffeine and phosphoserne (compounds previously shown to
improve performance in other exercise assays) showed no significant difference.
                                            Table 1
                       Dose (mg/kg)          Run time (s)       P-value
                                             mean ± SEM
                     Vehicle               169 ± 28           N/A
                     0.3                  301 ±36             NS
                     1                    334 ± 29 (          p<0.05
                     3                    389 ±65(            p<0.01

                                             - 94
Example 9: Effect of a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator on treadmill running
assay in healthy rats
[0306]    Male Sprague Dawley rats (Charles River), 10-12 weeks old, 250-400 g. Rats
were acclimated for a minimum of 2 days and weight was measured weekly. The
endurance capacity of rats was assessed using a progressive exercise test as previously
described (A. Aaker et al. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 28: 353-362, 1996; B. Helwig et al. J
Apple Physiol. 2003 Jun;94(6):2225-36). After familiarization with the treadmill apparatus,
rats were run at a treadmill speed of 30 meters per minute (m/min) with a 5% incline.
Every 15 minutes, the treadmill speed was increased by 5 meters per minute and the rats
continued to exercise until they reached the point of fatigue and were unable to continue
exercising (figure 1A). Exercise time was measured in minutes while exercise distance
was recorded in meters. Compound A was administered via oral gavage 2 hours prior to
assessment. Each dose was formulated as a suspension containing 1% hydroxypropyl
methylcellulose (HPMC), 0.2% Tween 80, and micronized Compound A, and dose volume
was 5 ml/kg. Vehicle (0.2% Tween 80, 1% HPMC and water) was administered similarly.
[0307]    Doses of 10 and 20 mg/kg of Compound A resulted in an increase in treadmill
running time of 20% over baseline and 50% over vehicle control (FIG. 10A). Equivalent
increases were seen in distance run (FIG. 10B). These results are tabulated in Table 2
below.
                                            Table 2
              Distance (m)                             Time (Min)
              Mean ± SEM                               Mean ± SEM
              Compound A       Vehicle        P-value  Compound A Vehicle           P-value
Predose       1527 ± 127       1330 ± 134     NS       49.3 ± 3.2      44.2 ±3.6    NS
10 mg/kg      1972 ± 176       1140 ± 129     <0.01    60.7 ± 4.2      38.9 ± 3.6   <0.01
20 mg/kg      1943 ± 205       1281 ± 101     <0.05    59.4 ± 4.7      42.9 ± 2.8   <0.05
Example 10: Bilateral Concentric Heel Raise Test
[0308]    Patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) and claudication experience
reproducible symptoms of leg pain during walking exercise. The symptom of claudication
is due to the exercise-induced ischemia-perfusion mismatch of the muscles in the legs.
Claudication pain is most commonly experienced in the calf muscles, limiting both walking

                                                - 95
distance and functional exercise capacity. Peak exercise performance measured as
maximal walking time during a standardized graded treadmill test is the gold standard for
assessing functional exercise capacity in PAD and is often used as the primary endpoint
in clinical trials. Because of the local metabolic and hemodynamic perturbations in
patients with claudication, it was assumed that a test of repeated bilateral heel raises
would: 1) elicit leg claudication pain symptoms and 2) provide a functional assessment for
symptom-limited muscular strength and fatigue. This experiment demonstrates the utility
and reproducibility of a novel heel raise test of muscle function and claudication-limited
exercise performance in patients with PAD and claudication.
[0309]     Objectives of the study included: 1) to determine the baseline characteristics and
variance of the bilateral heel raise test among patients with PAD; and 2) to determine the
variance and intra-class correlation coefficients of heel raise test parameters among three
repeated baseline measurements
[0310]     As part of a multi-center trial, the bilateral heel raise test was employed to assess
symptom-limited muscle strength and fatigue at three visits, each separated by 1 week.
Test instrumentation consisted of an electro-mechanical goniometer, handheld data
processor, personal computer, and automated data collection software. The lateral aspect
of the ankle on the dominant leg was instrumented with an electro-mechanical goniometer
to assess ankle angle position and range of motion (Noraxon U.S.A., Inc., Scottsdale, AZ)
(FIG. 11). Ankle plantar flexion was monitored and recorded using the
goniometerhandheld processor connected to a PC-based data collection system. Patients
were positioned standing in a clinic doorway and instructed to perform heel raises at the
frequency as directed by a metered, audible cue (1 heel raise every other second ~
0.5Hz). Subjects reported the onset of claudication symptoms, and the test was performed
to intolerable/maximal claudication pain and fatigue. The total number of heel raises, time,
and a calculated index of work performed were assessed from the beginning of test to the
onset of claudication and to maximal exercise. An index of work performed was
calculated: Heel Raise Work Index (HRWI) = (sine * foot length) * body mass. The number
of heel raises were defined as the number of heel raises achieving or exceeding 20
degrees of ankle plantar flexion. A mixed-effects model was employed (fixed effect of Visit
and random intercepts for patients) to determine the intra-class coefficient (ICC) and
evaluate potential differences among pre-treatment means of the repeated heel raise
tests.

                                               - 96
[0311]    The demographics and intra-class correlation coefficients of the study are shown
in the tables below.
                                         Demographics
                                              N = 61
                                   *Mean ± SD unless noted
                  Age (Yrs)                                    67.3 ±9.2
                  Weight (Kg)                                76.96 ± 17.30
                  Currently smoking (%)                          39.3%
                  Male (%)                                       85.2%
                              Intra-class Correlation Coefficients
                Time to Claudication Onset                            79.2%
                Number of repetitions to claudication onset           78.4%
                Work performed to claudication onset                  72.2%
                Time to intolerable claudication or calf muscle       78.7%
                fatigue
                Number of repetitions to intolerable                  76.3%
                claudication or calf muscle fatigue
                Work performed to intolerable claudication or         75.2%
                calf muscle fatigue
[0312]    The results of the heel raise test are tabulated below.
                              Heel Raise Test Parameter by Visit
Least squares mean ± SE                  Visit 1         Visit 2         Visit 3   P-value*
Time to Claudication onset (s)         44.2 ± 2.3      41.3 ± 2.3      44.2 ± 2.3   0.0972
Number of repetitions to               20.8 ± 1.1      20.7 ± 1.1      22.5 ± 1.1   0.0527
claudication onset (#)

                                              - 97
Work performed to claudication        86.7 ± 5.0       85.9 ± 5.0     96.8 ± 5.2       0.0155
onset (kg-m)
Time to intolerable claudication      78.4 ± 6.0       70.9 ± 6.1     75.3 ± 6.2       0.1806
or calf muscle fatigue (s)
Number of repetitions to              36.0 ± 2.9       34.5 ± 2.9     36.9 ± 3.0       0.3361
intolerable claudication or calf
muscle fatigue (#)
Work performed to intolerable       146.01 ± 9.68       142.39         153.09          0.5261
claudication or calf muscle                               9.74            9.95
fatigue (kg-m)
*Comparison of least squares means computed by mixed effect model for differences
between visits.
[0313]     This study shows that bilateral heel raises performed according to a specified
protocol elicited claudication pain in test subjects and provided a functionally relevant,
easy-to-deploy, and cost effective measure of calf muscle endurance and fatigue in
patients with PAD. The parameters assessed from a single bilateral concentric heel raise
test demonstrated reliability among baseline measurements across a 3-week period in
patients with PAD and claudication. Thus, the bilateral concentric heel raise test can be
used as a diagnostic tool for pateints suffering from vascular diseases (such as PAD
and/or claudication) and to determine the efficacy of drugs (e.g., skeletal muscle troponin
activators) to treat the symptoms of disease, including skeletal muscle fatigue.
Example 11: Use of bilateral heel test to evaluate the effect of of skeletal muscle
troponin activators in patients with claudication
[0314]     This study was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, three-period
cross-over, hypothesisgenerating Phase Il study in patients with peripheral artery disease
and claudication. The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate an effect of
single doses of a skeletal muscle troponin activator (Compound A) on measures of
skeletal muscle function and fatigability. Secondary objectives included (a) evaluation and
characterization of the relationship, if any, between the doses and plasma concentrations
of Compound A and its pharmacodynamic effects, and (b) evaluation of the safety and
tolerability of Compound A administered as single doses.

                                                - 98
[0315]     Key inclusion criteria for the study included: 1) Stable claudication for the last 6
months (Fontaine Stage 1l) in at least one calf muscle; 2) Peripheral artery disease:
ankle-brachial index at rest < 0.90 in at least one leg in which the patient experiences
claudication; 3) Ability to perform the bilateral heel raise test to claudication-limited
maximum muscle performance at a contraction frequency of once every other second; 4)
Ability to complete a 6-Minute Walk Test.
[0316]     Key exclusion criteria for the study included: 1) Fontaine Stage III-IV leg
ischemia (rest pain, tissue necrosis or gangrene); 2) Leg, hip, or knee surgery within 6
months prior to randomization; 3) Within 3 months prior to randomization: a) any
revascularization procedure (coronary or peripheral); b) life-threatening ventricular
arrhythmias, unstable angina, stroke, and/or myocardial infarction; and c) NYHA Class III
or IV heart failure; and 4) Screening Heel Raise Test and 6-Minute Walk Test not limited
by claudication.
[0317]     Single doses of each of 375 mg Compound A, 750 mg Compound A and placebo
were administered in random order with a 6 to 10 day wash out between each dose. The
protocol was amended after 33 patients due to adverse events in two patients at 750 mg;
the remainder received 500 mg Compound A instead of 750 mg. Assessments include 1)
Bilateral Heel Raise Test (as described below) using electrogoniometry at 3 and 6 hours
after dosing, and 2) 6-Minute Walk Test at 4 hours after dosing. Results were analyzed
using a repeated-measures ANCOVA with treatment, sequence, period, baseline, and
patient in the model. In the event of model assumption violations, non-parametric methods
were utilized
[0318]     In the bilateral heel raise test, the lateral aspect of the ankle on the dominant leg
was instrumented with an electromechanical goniometer connected to a PC-based data
collection system to monitor and record ankle angle position and range of motion
(Noraxon U.S.A., Inc., Scottsdale, AZ). Patients were instructed to perform heel raises at
the frequency as directed by a metered, audible cue (1 heel raise every other second ~
0.5Hz) Patients reported the onset of claudication symptoms, and the test was performed
to intolerable/maximal claudication pain and fatigue. The total number of heel raises, time,
and a calculated index of work performed were assessed from the beginning of test to the
onset of claudication and to maximal exercise. An index of work performed was calculated
as follows: Heel Raise Work Index (HRWI) = (sine * foot length) * body mass.
[0319]     The patient population that participated in the study is described in the tables
below.

                                - 99
                   Demographic Characteristics
                                           Mean (SD) or
                                        N (percent of total)
      Total N                               61 (100%)
      Age (years)                            67.3 (9.2)
      Sex: Female                            9 (14.8%)
            Male                            52 (85.2%)
      BMI (kg/M 2)                           26.4 (3.6)
      Smoking Status
                 Current                    24 (39.3%)
                 Former                     35 (57.4%)
                 Never                        2 (3.3%)
      Tobacco Use (units/day)               14.7 (11.0)
      Race:
                Asian                         1 (1.6%)
                Black                        7(11.5%)
                White                       52 (85.2%)
                Other                         1 (1.6%)
      Ethnicity:
                Hispanic                     7(11.5%)
                Non-hispanic                54 (88.5%)
Baseline Performance on Pharmacodynamic Outcome Measures
                                                        Mean
                                                         (SD)
 Time to claudication onsent (seconds)               43.7 (17.9)
 Time to end of test (seconds)                       78.4 (48.1)
 Number of full repititions to claudication           20.6 (8.6)
 onset
 Number of full repititions completed to end           36 (23.1)
 of test
 Work index to claudication onset (kg-m)             87.0 (39.1)
 Work index total to end of test (kg-m)              145.8 (74.3)
 6-minute walk total distance                       1078.8 (204.0)

                                             - 100
[0320]    The results of the pharmacokinetics study are depicted in FIG. 12, which shows
the mean (± SD) Compound A plasma concentrations over time. Mean plasma Compound
A concentrations showed relatively dose proportional increases. Mean plasma
concentrations remained within the pharmacologically active range throughout the 24-hour
observation period, even at the 375 mg dose.
[0321]    The results of the bilateral heel raise test are shown in FIGS. 13A-13C. FIG.
13A shows the time to onset of claudication or the end of the test (i.e., failure or
intolerable claudication pain) for each of the three doses of Compound A at 3 and 6 hours
post-dose. FIG. 13B shows the number of complete heel raise repetitions to onset of
claudication or end of test for each of the three doses of Compound A at 3 and 6 hours
post-dose. FIG. 13C shows the work done to onset of claudication and end of test for
each of the three doses of Compound A at 3 and 6 hours post-dose. All values are
represented as median ± interquartile range. (Symbols: @ p < 0.10; # p < 0.05; * p < 0.01;
+ p < 0.002).
[0322]    The PK/PD analysis shows a strong relationship between Compound A plasma
concentrations and outcome (FIG. 14). Pharmacokinetic samples were obtained at the
time of each Heel Raise Test. All measured plasma Compound A concentrations were
divided into quartiles. The placebo corrected LS mean change from baseline ± SEM for
the simultaneously obtained value of each outcome measure is plotted at the mid-point of
each concentration bin. There was a strong positive relationship between Compound A
plasma concentrations and all outcomes in the Heel Raise Test. Significance levels for
individual comparisons to placebo are indicated on the table in the lower right-hand panel.
Symbols above the horizontal bars on each graph in Compound A indicate the p-value for
the slope of the concentration/response relationship.
[0323]    Compound A administration was associated with a dose and concentration
dependent decrease in the distance patients traversed during a 6-Minute Walk Test
(FIGS. 15A-15B). In FIG. 15A, values displayed are placebo-corrected LS mean changes
from baseline ± SEM; ** p <0.0001 for overall dose response (indicated by horizontal bar
over the figure) and for comparison of the 750 mg dose to placebo. In FIG. 15B all
measured plasma Compound A concentrations were divided into quartiles. The placebo
corrected LS mean change from baseline ± SEM for the simultaneously obtained value of
each outcome measure was plotted at the mid-point of each concentration range. ** p <
0.0001 for overall concentration response (indicated by horizontal bar over the figure) and
for comparison of the highest concentration range to placebo; # p < 0.05 for comparison

                                              - 101
of the second highest range to placebo. Note that the placebo-corrected changes shown
are small relative to the mean distance of 1079 feet traversed at the screening visit.
[0324]     The results of these studies indicate that the fast skeletal muscle troponin
activator Compound A increased calf muscle performance in patients with calf
claudication as evidenced by heel raise testing. Both increases in muscle performance
and adverse events appear related to increasing both dose and plasma Compound A
concentration. Performance on 6-Minute Walk Test was inversely related to dose and
Compound A plasma concentration. Dose related adverse events, particularly dizziness
and others related to walking, may explain this negative effect on the 6-Minute Walk.
Example 12: Effect of a fast skeletal troponin activator on muscle fatigue in healthy
rats
[0325]     The effect of the fast skeletal muscle troponin activator
1-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyr
role-3-carboxamide (Compound C) on muscle fatigue in healthy rats was determined by a
rotarod running time test. Compound C was administered to test rats at the doses
between 0.3 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg (~70 nM-28 pM). On the day of the assessment, the
animals began by running at an increasing speed from 14-16 RPM over 5 minutes. Rats
were then run at a constantly accelerating rate from 12 RPM to 25 RPM over the course
of 10 minutes. Time to fall was recorded, with the test being terminated at 600 seconds.
The plasma levels were determined at the end of the experiments (not at Cmax). The
plasma levels for the indicated doses were determined to be the following:
                                        Dose        [Plasma]
                                       (mg/kg)        (pM)
                                         0.01         0.003
                                         0.03         0.007
                                          0.1         0.024
                                          0.3         0.083
                                           1          0.204
                                           3          0.478
                                          10           1.95
                                          30           3.64
                                         100           28.0

                                             - 102
[0326]    As shown in FIG. 16, significant increases were observed in running time in this
fatigue model for Compound A-treated rats vs. vehicle controls between 0.3 mg/kg and
100 mg/kg. Thus, Compound A increases running time in the fatigue-rotarod test in
healthy rats.
Example 13: Effect of a fast skeletal troponin activator on rat heart failure model
[0327]    To determine the effect of Compound C on skeletal muscle function in patients
with heart failure, a rat heart failure model was used. Female Sprague Dawley rats
(<250g) were obtained from Charles River Laboratories having the left anterior
descending coronary artery ligated prior to shipping (LAD-HF rats). Sham operated
controls were also obtained from the same surgical preparation (sham controls). All rats
underwent assessment of cardiac function after a three day acclimation to provide
baseline levels. Animals were assessed on weeks 4, 7 and 10 to observe the progress of
exercise intolerance at least 3 days after echocardiography. Exercise performance was
assessed using the fatiguing rotarod protocol described in Example 11 (5 minute run
ramping from 14-16 RPM, followed by run time assessment during a 10 minute ramp from
12 to 25 RPM). LAD-HF rats were selected based on a left ventricular fractional
shortening <25% and reduced run time compared to sham controls. As shown in FIG. 17,
the heart failure phenotype of the LAD-HF rats developed over several weeks post
surgery. Decreases in fractional shortening (determined by echocardiography) were
apparent.
[0328]    Animals were assigned in a cross-over fashion whereby half of the animals
received Compound C (10mg/kg PO) and half received vehicle (19.3%PEG: 80% (15%)
captisol, pH3, 0.2% tween, 0.5%HPMC) via oral gavage 30 minutes prior to rotarod
assessment on Day 1 and then the opposite treatment on Day 2.
[0329]    As shown in FIG. 18, vehicle-treated sham rats ran longer than vehicle-treated
LAD-HF rats (198 ± 26 seconds vs. 111 ± 32 seconds, p=0.042, mean ± S.E.). FIG. 18
also shows that LAD-HF rats treated with Compound C increased their rotarod running
time approximately 2.5-fold compared to vehicle treatment (277 ± 32 seconds vs. 111
32 seconds, p=0.0004 from an ANCOVA model controlling for baseline, rat cohort,
treatment day and sequence). Thus, administration of Compound C increased the fatigue
resistance in this rat model of heart failure.

                                            - 103
Example 14: In vivo effect of a fast skeletal troponin activator in a rat heart failure
model
[0330]    An in situ assessment of selected animals from Example 12 was run at the end
of the study to assess functional characteristics of extensor digitorum longus (EDL)
muscles in Sham and LAD animals. Effects with and without Compound C (3mg/kg IV)
were assessed.
[0331]    Rats were placed under anesthesia and the skin around the experimental leg
was removed. The distal end of the extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle and its
associated tendon were then isolated. The rat was then placed on the platform of an
Aurora in situ muscle analysis rig wherein the knee was immobilized and the distal tendon
cut and tied to the arm of a force transducer. The muscle was stimulated directly via steel
needle electrodes contacting the peroneal nerve. Muscle contractile properties were
assessed by applying an electrical current to the nerve and recording the force generated
by the muscle via a servomotor. The muscle length was adjusted to produce the
maximum isometric force (L.) after sub-maximal stimulation (30 Hz, 1 ms pulses, 350 ms
train duration). Once L. had been established, the nerve was stimulated every 2 minutes
with a 30 Hz train (1 ms stimuli, 350 ms duration) for the course of the experiment.
[0332]    Once the preparation was stable, a force frequency relationship was assessed,
then Compound C (3mg/kg IV) or vehicle was injected and a second force frequency was
assessed. Stimulation frequency was set at that which produced 50% of maximum force
and a 5 minute fatigue stimulation protocol of 1 train per second was run over 5 minutes.
[0333]    The results of this experiment showed little difference between LAD-HF and
sham animals, in general. Compound C increased response to low frequency stimulation
in both groups, although the increase was slightly larger in the LAD-HF group (FIG. 19
and FIG. 20). When the baseline tension was subtracted from the second tension
measurements in the presence of vehicle, it was apparent that the second force-frequency
relationship was substantially lower, likely due to fatigue of the muscle (FIG. 21).
However, in the presence of Compound C, the second force frequency curve was
increased in both the sham surgery EDL muscle and the LAD-HF EDL muscle (FIG. 21).
The response to Compound C was greater in the LAD-HF rat muscle compared to sham.
Example 15: In vitro effect of a fast skeletal troponin activator on skinned muscle
fibers in a rat heart failure model
        General procedure for skinned fiber studies:

                                               - 104
[0334]     Muscle tissue for in vitro skinned fiber studies were prepared using an adapted
protocol based on Lynch and Faulkner (Am J Physiol 275:C1548-54 (1998)). Briefly, rat
muscle from sham and HF animals were rapidly dissected, rinsed in physiological saline,
and then incubated in skinning solution (125 mM K-propionate, 20 mM imidazole, 5 mM
EGTA, 2 mM MgCl 2 , 2 mM ATP, pH 7.0) supplemented with 0.5% TritonX-1 00 (Sigma
Chemicals, St. Louis, MO) for 30 minutes at 40C. The buffer was then changed to a
storage solution (125 mM K-propionate, 20 mM imidazole, 5 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgCl 2 , 2
mM ATP, glycerol 50%, pH 7.0) and stored at -20'C for later use.
[0335]     For skinned fiber analysis, single muscle fibers were dissected from larger
segments of tissue in rigor buffer at 41C (20 pM MOPS, 5 pM MgCI2, 120 pM potassium
acetate, 1 pM EGTA, pH 7.0). They were then suspended between a 400A force
transducer (Aurora Scientific, Ontario, Canada) and a fixed post and secured with 2-4 pl
of a 5% solution of methylcellulose in acetone. Fibers were then incubated at 10 C in a
relaxing buffer (20 pM MOPS, 5.5 pM MgC 2 , 132 pM potassium acetate, 4.4 pM ATP, 22
pM creatine phosphate, 1 mg/ml creatine kinase, 1 mM DTT, 44 ppm antifoam , pH 7.0)
and baseline tension adjusted. Tension was generated in each fiber by changing fiber
buffer over to relax buffer supplemented with 1 mM EGTA and a 15 mM solution of
calcium chloride and calculated using the web resource
(www.stanford.edu/~cpatton/webmaxc/webmaxcS.htm). Compound A was added to
these buffers from a DMSO solution (final DMSO concentration =1%).
 [0336]     EDL muscles were harvested from sham and HF animals as described above.
As shown in FIG. 22, there was no difference in the force-pCA relationship between
SHAM and HF EDL fibers. However, 3 pM Compound C significantly caused a leftward
shift in the force-Ca 2 ' relationship in both sham and HF EDL muscle.
Example 16: In vitro effect of fast skeletal troponina on skinned diaphragm muscle
fiber in a rat heart failure model
[0337]     Diaphragm muscles were harvested from sham and LAD-HF rats as described in
Example 14. Compared to sham diaphragms, LAD-HF diaphragm fibers had significantly
lower Ca 2 , sensitivity. 3pM Compound C significantly increased Ca 2 , sensitivity in both
sham and LAD-HF diaphragm fibers (FIG. 23).
Example 17: In vitro effect of a fast skeletal troponin activator on diaphragm force
frequency relationship in a rat heart failure model

                                              - 105
[0338]     Diaphragm contractile force was measured by electrical field stimulation in an
organ bath system based on a standard operating protocol adapted from the Treat NMD
website (http://www.treat-nmd.eu/downloads/file/sops/dmd/MDX/DMD              M.1.2.002.pdf).
The diaphragm and the last floating rib from sham and HF animals were excised, rinsed in
physiological saline, and placed in a temperature controlled water-jacketed chamber (26
270C) containing Krebs-Henseleit Buffer (118 mM NaCl, 10 mM glucose, 4.6 mM KCl, 1.2
mM KH 2 PO 4, 1.2 mM MgSO 4*7H 20, 24.8 mM NaHCO 3 , 2.5 mM CaCl 2 , 50mg/L
tubocurarine, 50U/L insulin, pH:7.4) that was continuously aerated with 95% 02 /5% 02.
After 10 minutes of equilibration, vertical strips spanning the floating rib to the central
tendon were cut from diaphragms. Braided silk sutures were tied at the central tendon and
floating rib and attached to a force transducer between two platinum electrodes.
Diaphragm strips were set to a length that produced maximum twitch tension (L.). The
force-frequency profile of the muscle was obtained by stimulating the muscle at
frequencies between 10-150 Hz (Grass Stimulator, 800 ms train duration, 0.6 ms pulse
width). Compound C was suspended in DMSO and directly added into the bath.
[0339]     As shown in FIG. 24, LAD-HF diaphragm muscle produced significantly lower
force compared to sham diaphragms. 30pM Compound C significantly increased force in
both sham (FIG. 25, top panel) and LAD-HF (FIG. 25, bottom panel) diaphragms at
submaximal frequencies of electrical stimulation. Thus, these studies indicate that
increasing diaphragm muscle Ca2 , sensitivity by administration of a troponin activator
such as Compound C improves the tension output in a weakened diaphragm.
[0340]     While some embodiments have been shown and described, various
modifications and substitutions may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and
scope of the invention. For example, for claim construction purposes, it is not intended
that the claims set forth hereinafter be construed in any way narrower than the literal
language thereof, and it is thus not intended that exemplary embodiments from the
specification be read into the claims. Accordingly, it is to be understood that the present
invention has been described by way of illustration and not limitations on the scope of the
claims.
[0341]      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                            - 106
[0342]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers
or steps.

                                            - 107
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method of improving resistance to skeletal muscle fatigue in a subject suffering
from a condition selected from the group consisting of myocardial infarction and anemia,
the method comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
skeletal muscle troponin activator;
wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of Formula 1:
                          R
        R 2 -,xN
                                      3(CR
                                              8 R9 )m
              R           N          N
                                    RIR
                                                      5    R6
                               Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR', C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl
and NRbR', wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra5
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR R, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;

                                                - 108
         R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR',        C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
           4
         R is selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR' and SO 2 Ra;
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C16 alkyl and
C1-6 haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610
aryl, C7.11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C16 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2 )pC(O)(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pO(CH 2 )q-
(CH 2)pS(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pN RdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2NRd(CH 2 )q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected

                                               - 109
from oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds,
and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rb and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Rj and SO2 R, wherein each of the
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C16 alkyl;
        R*, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR',
OC(O)R, OC(O)OR, OC(O)NR'Rj, NR'Rj, NRdC(O)R, NRdC(O)OR, NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)Rh, NRdC(S)OR, NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'R,
NRdS(O)R, NRdSO 2 Rh, NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R, C(O)OR, C(O)NR'Rj, C(S)R', C(S)OR,
C(S)NR'Rj, C(NRe)NR'R, SR', S(O)R, SO 2Rh, SO 2 NR'Rj, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;
        or two R' substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl
and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;

                                                -110
           R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C7_11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
           R' and RI, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl,
NHC(O)C00 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C         7 11 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, 0C(0)C711 aralkyl,
OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl,       C(O)C16 alkyl, C(0)C7.11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl,
C(0)0C711 aralkyl, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C7_11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from OH, C16 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6
alkyl) 2 , NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 6 alkyl, and NHC(O)OC 7 1 1
aralkyl;
           or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
           m is 0, 1 or 2;
           n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
           p is 0, 1 or 2; and
           q is 0, 1 or 2.

                                            - 111
2.      Use of a skeletal muscle troponin activator in the manufacture of a medicament for
improving resistance to skeletal muscle fatigue in a subject suffering from a condition
selected from the group consisting of myocardial infarction and anemia;
wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of Formula 1:
                          R
        R2                     N
                                        -- (CRR 9 )mR
              R           N          N
                                     R4             R5     R
                               Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR', C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl
and NRbR', wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR R, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6eo aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR-, ORa, NR R, C-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;

                                                -112
         R4 is selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR' and SO 2 Ra;
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C16 alkyl and
C16  haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610
aryl, C7.11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C16 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2 )pC(O)(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pO(CH 2 )q-
(CH 2)pS(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pN RdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2NRd(CH 2 )q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected
from oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds,
and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;

                                               - 113
        Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rb and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Rj and SO2 R, wherein each of the
C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C16 alkyl;
        R*, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR',
OC(O)R, OC(O)OR, OC(O)NR'Rj, NR'Rj, NRdC(O)Rh, NRdC(O)OR, NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)Rh, NRdC(S)OR, NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'R,
NRdS(O)Rh, NRdSO 2 Rh, NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R, C(O)OR, C(O)NR'Rj, C(S)R', C(S)OR,
C(S)NR'Rj, C(NRe)NR'R, SR', S(O)Rh, SO 2Rh, SO 2 NR'Rj,          C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;
        or two R' substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl
and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;
        R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C7.11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;

                                                 -114
           Rh, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
           R' and RI, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 -6 alkyl), N(C1 -6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl,
NHC(O)OC 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)OC 7 1 1 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, 0C(0)C711 aralkyl,
OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl,        C(O)C16 alkyl, C(0)C7.11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl,
C(0)0C711 aralkyl, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C7.11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from OH, C16 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 -6 alkyl), N(C1 -6
alkyl) 2 , NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, and NHC(O)C         7 11
aralkyl;
           or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
           m is 0, 1 or 2;
           n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
           p is 0, 1 or 2; and
           q is 0, 1 or 2.
3.         A method according to claim 1 or the use of claim 2, wherein the subject is
suffering from claudication.

                                            - 115
4.      A method according to claim 1 or 3, or the use of claim 2 or 3, wherein the skeletal
muscle troponin activator increases submaximal tension in a skeletal muscle in the
subject.
5.      A method according to any one of claims 1, 3 and 4, or the use of any one of
claims 2 to 4, wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator reduces the intracellular
calcium required by a skeletal muscle in the subject to generate force.
6.      A method for treating exercise intolerance in a patient suffering from heart failure
comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a skeletal
muscle troponin activator;
wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of Formula 1:
                          R1
         R2                    N
                                                  9
                                      3(CRR        )m
              R           N          N
                                     R              R5     R
                               Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR', C6o10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl
and NRbR', wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra

                                                -116
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR'Rc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2 )nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2 )nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR',       C6o10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
         R4 is selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR' and SO 2 Ra;
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C16 alkyl and
C16  haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR R, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610
aryl, C7_11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C16 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2)pC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pO(CH 2)q-
(CH 2)pS(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-, -

                                               -117
(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pNRdSO 2(CH 2)q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2NRd(CH 2)q-;
        or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected
from oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds,
and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rb and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Rj and SO2 R, wherein each of the
C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C16 alkyl;
        R*, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR',
OC(O)R, OC(O)OR, OC(O)NR'Rj, NR'Rj, NRdC(O)R, NRdC(O)OR, NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)Rh, NRdC(S)OR, NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'R,
NRdS(O)R, NRdSO 2 Rh, NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R, C(O)OR, C(O)NR'Rj, C(S)R', C(S)OR,
C(S)NR'Rj, C(NRe)NR'R, SR', S(O)R, SO 2Rh, SO 2 NR'Rj, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;

                                                - 118
           or two R' substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl
and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;
           R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C7_11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
           R' and RI, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl,
NHC(O)C00 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C         7 11 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, OC(O)C7-11 aralkyl,
OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl,       C(O)C16 alkyl, C(0)C7_11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl,
C(O)OC7-11 aralkyl, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C7_11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from OH, C16 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6
alkyl) 2 , NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 6 alkyl, and NHC(O)OC 7 1 1
aralkyl;
           or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
           m is 0, 1 or 2;
           n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;

                                               -119
        p is 0, 1 or 2; and
        q is 0, 1 or 2.
7.      A method for improving physical endurance performance of a patient suffering
from heart failure, comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective
amount of a skeletal muscle troponin activator;
wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of Formula 1:
                           R
        R 2 -,xN
                                          3(CR
                                                 8 R9 )m
               R           N            N
                                        RIR
                                                         5 R6
                                  Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR',       C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl
and NRbR', wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2 )nSO 2 Ra5
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR R, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2 )nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2 )nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2 )nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;

                                                - 120
         R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR',        C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
           4
         R is selected from hydrogen, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR' and SO 2 Ra;
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C16 alkyl and
C1-6 haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610
aryl, C7.11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C16 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2 )pC(O)(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pO(CH 2 )q-
(CH 2)pS(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pN RdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2NRd(CH 2 )q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected

                                               - 121
from oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds,
and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rb and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Rj and SO2 R, wherein each of the
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C16 alkyl;
        R*, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR',
OC(O)R, OC(O)OR, OC(O)NR'Rj, NR'Rj, NRdC(O)R, NRdC(O)OR, NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)Rh, NRdC(S)OR, NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'R,
NRdS(O)R, NRdSO 2 Rh, NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R, C(O)OR, C(O)NR'Rj, C(S)R', C(S)OR,
C(S)NR'Rj, C(NRe)NR'R, SR', S(O)R, SO 2Rh, SO 2 NR'Rj, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;
        or two R' substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl
and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;

                                                - 122
           R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C7_11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
           R' and RI, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl,
NHC(O)C00 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C         7 11 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, 0C(0)C711 aralkyl,
OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl,       C(O)C16 alkyl, C(0)C7.11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl,
C(0)0C711 aralkyl, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C7_11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from OH, C16 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6
alkyl) 2 , NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)OC 1 6 alkyl, and NHC(O)OC 7 1 1
aralkyl;
           or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
           m is 0, 1 or 2;
           n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
           p is 0, 1 or 2; and
           q is 0, 1 or 2.

                                             - 123
8.      Use of a skeletal muscle troponin activator in the manufacture of a medicament for
treating exercise intolerance in a patient suffering from heart failure;
wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of Formula 1:
                          R
         R2                    N
                                           (CR 8 R9 )mR
              R           N          N
                                     R4              R5    R
                               Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR', C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl
and NRbR', wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR R, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6eo aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6 10 aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR-, ORa, NR R, C-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R4 is selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR' and SO 2 Ra;

                                                - 124
         R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C16 alkyl and
C1-6 haloalkyl;
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR'RC, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610
aryl, C7.11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C16 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2 )pC(O)(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2 )pO(CH 2 )q-
(CH 2)pS(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pN RdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2NRd(CH 2 )q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected
from oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds,
and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10

                                               - 125
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rb and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Rj and SO2 R, wherein each of the
C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C16 alkyl;
        Re, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR',
OC(O)R', OC(O)OR', OC(O)NR'Rj, NR'Rj, NRdC(O)R', NRdC(O)OR', NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)R', NRdC(S)OR', NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'R,
NRdS(O)R', NRdSO 2 R', NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R', C(O)OR', C(O)NR'Rj, C(S)R', C(S)OR',
C(S)NR'Rj, C(NRe)NR'R, SR', S(O)R, SO 2R', SO 2 NR'Rj,           C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;
        or two R' substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl
and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;
        R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C7_11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10

                                               - 126
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
           R' and RI, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl,
NHC(O)OC 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)OC 7 1 1 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, 0C(0)C711 aralkyl,
OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl,       C(O)C16 alkyl, C(0)C7.11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl,
C(0)0C711 aralkyl, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C7.11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from OH, C16 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 6 alkyl), N(C1 6
alkyl) 2 , NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)C00 6 alkyl, and NHC(O)C         7 11
aralkyl;
           or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
           m is 0, 1 or 2;
           n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
           p is 0, 1 or 2; and
           q is 0, 1 or 2.
9.         Use of a skeletal muscle troponin activator in the manufacture of a medicament for
improving physical endurance performance of a patient suffering from heart failure;

                                            - 127
wherein the skeletal muscle troponin activator is a compound of Formula 1:
                          R
        R2                     N
                                      3(CRR 9)m
              R3          N          N
                                     R              R5     R
                               Formula I
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa,
C(O)NRbR', ORa, NRbR', C6-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R2 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl
and NRbR', wherein each of the C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, (CH 2)nORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nOC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nOC(O)NR Rc,
(CH 2)nNR Rc, (CH 2 )nNRdC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(O)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)ORa, (CH 2)nNRdC(S)NR R,
(CH 2)nNRdC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2)nNRdS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2 Ra, (CH 2)nNRdSO 2NR R,
(CH 2)nC(O)Ra, (CH 2)nC(O)ORa, (CH 2)nC(O)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(S)Ra, (CH 2)nC(S)ORa
(CH 2)nC(S)NR Rc, (CH 2)nC(NR*)NR Rc, (CH 2 )nSRa, (CH 2)nS(O)Ra, (CH 2)nSO 2 Ra
(CH 2)nSO 2 NR R, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6eo aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, (CH 2)nC3- 8 cycloalkyl,
(CH 2)n3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, (CH 2)nC6eo aryl and (CH 2)n5-10 membered
heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        R3 is selected from hydrogen, halogen, CN, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR-, ORa, NR R, C-10 aryl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl;
        R4 is selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa
C(O)NRbR' and SO 2 Ra;
        R5 and R6 are each independently selected from hydrogen, halogen, C16 alkyl and
C16 haloalkyl;

                                                - 128
         or alternatively, R5 and R6 together with the carbon atom to which they are bound
form a group selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, each optionally substituted with 1,
2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa,
NR R', C(O)Ra, C(O)ORa, C(O)NR R, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra, SO 2 NRR', C1-6 alkyl and C1-6
haloalkyl;
         R7 is selected from C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl and 5-10 membered
heteroaryl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents selected from
halogen, CN, oxo, ORa, OC(O)Ra, OC(O)ORa, OC(O)NR Rc, NRbRc, NRdC(O)Ra
NRdC(O)ORa, NRdC(O)NR Rc, NRdC(O)C(O)NR Rc, NRdC(S)Ra, NRdC(S)ORa
NRdC(S)NR Rc, NRdC(NR*)NRRc, NRdS(O)Ra, NRdSO 2Ra, NRdSO 2NRR, C(O)Ra
C(O)ORa, C(O)NRR, C(S)Ra, C(S)ORa, C(S)NR Rc, C(NR*)NRRc, SRa, S(O)Ra, SO 2 Ra
SO 2 NRbRc, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8
cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610
aryl, C7.11 aralkyl, and 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl
groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         R8 and R9, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
halogen and C16 alkyl;
         X is selected from a bond, -(CH 2)p-, -(CH 2)pC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pO(CH 2)q-
(CH 2)pS(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pNRd(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)O(CH 2 )q-, -(CH 2)pOC(O)(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2)pNRdC(O)(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-, -(CH 2)pNRdC(O)NRd(CH 2)q-,
(CH 2 )pNRdSO 2 (CH 2 )q-, and -(CH 2)pSO 2NRd(CH 2)q-;
         or alternatively, X, R2 and R3 , together with the carbon atoms to which they are
bound, form a 5-6 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms selected
from oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur, and optionally containing one or more double bonds,
and optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
         Ra, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered

                                               - 129
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rb and R', at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C6-1o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, C(O)OR9, C(O)NR'Rj and SO2 R, wherein each of the
C1-6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 R' substituents;
        Rd, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen and C16 alkyl;
        Re, at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, OH,
C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OR',
OC(O)R', OC(O)OR', OC(O)NR'Rj, NR'Rj, NRdC(O)R', NRdC(O)OR', NRdC(O)NR'Ri,
NRdC(O)C(O)NR'Ri, NRdC(S)R', NRdC(S)OR', NRdC(S)NR'Ri, NRdC(NRe)NR'R,
NRdS(O)R', NRdSO 2 R', NRdSO 2NR'R, C(O)R', C(O)OR', C(O)NR'Rj, C(S)R', C(S)OR',
C(S)NR'Rj, C(NRe)NR'R, SR', S(O)R, SO 2R', SO 2 NR'Rj,           C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6
alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl,
wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl,
3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl
and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk
substituents;
        or two R' substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a group selected from carbonyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl
and 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl;
        R9, at each occurrence, is independently selected from C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl,
phenyl, naphthyl, and C7_11 aralkyl, each optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
substituents selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
        R', at each occurrence, is independently selected from hydrogen, C16 alkyl, C16
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8
cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered

                                                 - 130
heterocycloalkenyl, C610 aryl, C7_11 aralkyl and 5-10 membered heteroaryl groups is
optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Rk substituents;
           R' and RI, at each occurrence, are each independently selected from hydrogen,
C1-6 alkyl, C1-6 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8
membered heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7_11 aralkyl,
5-10 membered heteroaryl, C(O)R9, and C(O)OR9, wherein each of the C16 alkyl, C1-6
haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3-8 cycloalkyl, C3-8 cycloalkenyl, 3-8 membered
heterocycloalkyl, 3-8 membered heterocycloalkenyl, C61o aryl, C7.11 aralkyl and 5-10
membered heteroaryl groups is optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents
selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16 alkoxy, C16 alkyl and C16 haloalkyl;
           Rk, at each occurrence, is independently selected from halogen, CN, OH, C16
alkoxy, NH2, NH(C 1 -6 alkyl), N(C1 -6 alkyl) 2, NHC(O)C    6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl,
NHC(O)OC 16 alkyl, NHC(O)OC 7 11 aralkyl, OC(O)C1-6 alkyl, OC(O)C711 aralkyl,
OC(O)OC1-6 alkyl, OC(O)OC7-11 aralkyl,        C(O)C16 alkyl, C(0)C7_11 aralkyl, C(O)OC1-6 alkyl,
C(0)0C711 aralkyl, C16 alkyl, C16 haloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, and C2-6 alkynyl, wherein each
C16  alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, and C7.11 aralkyl substituent is optionally substituted
with 1, 2 or 3 substituents selected from OH, C16 alkoxy, NH2 , NH(C 1 -6 alkyl), N(C1 -6
alkyl) 2 , NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, NHC(O)C 7 11 aralkyl, NHC(O)C 1 6 alkyl, and NHC(O)C         7 11
aralkyl;
           or two Rk substituents bound to a single carbon atom, together with the carbon
atom to which they are both bound, form a carbonyl group;
           m is 0, 1 or 2;
           n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2;
           p is 0, 1 or 2; and
           q is 0, 1 or 2.
10.        A method according to claim 6 or 7, further comprising administering to the subject
a second therapy.
11.        Use according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the medicament is suitable for combination
with a second therapy.
12.        A method according to claim 10, or the use according to claim 11, wherein the
second therapy is selected from an antiplatelet drug, a diuretic, a calcium channel blocker,

                                             - 131
a beta blocker, an ACE inhibitor, a statin, an angiotensin || receptor antagonist, and an
aldosterone antagonist.
13.     A method or use according to claim 12, wherein the second therapy is selected
from digoxin, aspirin, ticlopidine, clopidogrel, metoprolol, carvedilol, eplerenone, and
spironolactone.
14.     A method according to claim 10, or the use of claim 11, wherein the second
therapy is selected from angioplasty, stenting, and surgery.
15.     A method according to any one of claims 10 and 12 to 14 wherein the skeletal
muscle troponin activator and the second therapy are administered simultaneously to the
subject.
16.     A method according to any one of claims 10 and 12 to 14 wherein the skeletal
muscle troponin activator and the second therapy are administered sequentially to the
subject.
17.     Use according to any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the medicament is suitable
for simultaneous administration with the second therapy.
18.     Use according to any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the medicament is suitable
for sequential administration with the second therapy.
19.     A method according to any one of claims 1, 3 to 7, 10, and 12 to 16, or the use
according to any one of claims 2 to 5, 8, 9, 11 to 14, 17, and 18 wherein the skeletal
muscle troponin activator is a fast skeletal muscle troponin activator.
20.     A method according to any one of claims 1, 3 to 7, 10, 12 to 16 and 19, or the use
according to any one of claims 2 to 5, 8, 9, 11 to 14, and 17 to 19, wherein the skeletal
muscle troponin activator is a compound of Formula XII(o):

                                              - 132
                                 R1
                          R2N                R8      R9
                                                                            (R),
                                                                  N         (Rr
                                 N         N
                      R3x
                                           R4
                                                  Rm       Rn
                                          Formula XII(o)
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
         R1 is hydrogen;
         R2 is selected from furanyl, pyrrolyl, thiophenyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, thiadiazolyl,
oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, im idazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl, each optionally
substituted with (CH 2)nC(O)NH 2 ;
         R3 is hydrogen;
         R4 is hydrogen;
         R8 and R9 are each hydrogen;
         one of Rm and R' is hydrogen and the other is fluorine;
         n, at each occurrence, independently is 0, 1 or 2; and
         r is 0, 1, 2, 3 or 4.
21.      A method or use according to claim 20, wherein one of Rm and R' is hydrogen and
the other is fluorine; and
the fluorine and the pyridyl ring are in a trans configuration with respect to one another on
the cyclobutyl ring.
22.      A method according to any one of claims 1, 3 to 7, 10, 12 to 16 and 19 to 21, or
the use according to any one of claims 2 to 5, 8, 9, 11 to 14, and 17 to 21, wherein the
skeletal muscle troponin activator is:
1-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyr
role-3-carboxamide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein
1-(2-(((trans)-3-fluoro-1 -(3-fluoropyridin-2-yl)cyclobutyl)methylamino)pyrimidin-5-yl)-1 H-pyr
role-3-carboxamide is defined by the following structure:

                 - 133
              F'
            N
    N/\NCD
         -N            F
NH2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
