  ABSTRACT
  A method of controlling a secondary game event in a wager
  based game, and a game controller to control play of a
5 game, are disclosed herein.

                                  1
               A GAMING  SYSTEM AND METHOD OF GAMING
   Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
 5 application no.  <removed-apn>, which, in turn, is a
   divisional of application no. 2014203106, which, in turn,
   is a divisional of 2011202094, the disclosure of all of
   which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the
   disclosure of these applications is also included herein,
10 however, reference may be made to the specifications of
   application nos.  <removed-apn>, 2014203106 and 2011202094 as
   filed to gain further understanding of the invention
   claimed herein.
15 Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a gaming system and a
   method of gaming, and particularly, but not exclusively,
   to a gaming system, controller and method for awarding
   jackpot prizes.
20
   Background of the Invention
   It is known to provide a gaming system which comprises a
   game controller arranged to randomly display several
   symbols from a predetermined set of symbols and to
25 determine a game outcome such as a game win based on the
   displayed symbols.   Such gaming systems may commonly be
   implemented as a stepping machine provided with reels with
   each reel carrying several symbols of the set,   or a video
   machine wherein selected symbols are displayed on virtual
30 reels on a graphical display device.    Win outcomes can
   occur based on symbols appearing in one or more horizontal
   lines, diagonal lines, or any other predetermined way.

                                  2
   It is also known to award high paying prizes,   referred to
   as jackpot prizes, which may be funded from a prize pool.
   Typically, a portion of a gaming machine's turnover is
   forwarded to a jackpot prize controller which maintains
 5 the prize pool.
   One common way of awarding a jackpot prize is based on
   determining a certain symbol or symbol combination in a
   game outcome, often referred to as a symbol driven
10 jackpot. However, a problem with this sort of jackpot
   awarding technique is that the probability of being
   awarded the jackpot prize   (or simply qualifying for the
   prize) is not tied to the amount wagered by the player and
   thus does not meet regulatory gaming requirements for many
15 jurisdictions.   To overcome this problem, some gaming
   systems have been modified so as to increase the number of
   jackpot trigger symbols available for selection in the
   game,  in proportion to the wagered amount.   However, the
   problem with such modified jackpot awarding techniques is
20 that players wagering small amounts are not awarded with
   jackpots as often as players wagering larger amounts
   resulting in those players losing interest in the game.
   Summary of the Invention
25 In accordance with a first aspect, the present invention
   provides a method of controlling a secondary game event in
   a wager based game, the method comprising the steps of:
         configuring a secondary event trigger having a hit
   rate which is fixed over a plurality of games;
30       determining an amount wagered for play of one of the
   games;  and
         upon determining the secondary game event trigger
   during the game,  initiating the secondary game event in
   which a higher value prize and lower value prize are each
35 eligible to be awarded, such that a probability of being

                                3
   awarded the higher value prize increases with the amount
   wagered in the game, while the probability of achieving
   the lower value prize decreases.
 5 In an embodiment the secondary event trigger is a symbol
   driven trigger occurring during play of the game.
   In an embodiment the prizes are  jackpot prizes funded from
   a jackpot prize pool.
10
   In an embodiment the method comprises the further step of
   allocating a percentage of each wager to the jackpot prize
   pool.
15 In an embodiment the method comprises the further step of
   setting the probabilities such that an average  jackpot
   return over the plurality of games is substantially
   constant for a range of wager amounts.
20 In an embodiment the method comprises the further step of
   determining which of the higher or lower value prize to
   award based on the wagered amount and awarding the
   determined prize.
25 In an embodiment the method further comprises providing a
   plurality of distinct higher and lower value prizes, a
   relative probability increase for each prize with respect
   to the wager amount being dependent on a required rate of
   return.
30
   In an embodiment the method comprises the further step of
   awarding a combination of the plurality of distinct prizes
   to achieve the required rate of return.

                                4
   In an embodiment the step of determining a wager amount
   comprises determining an average wager amount over a
   number of games since a last jackpot was awarded such that
 5 the relative probabilities are determined based on the
   average wager amount.
   In accordance with a second aspect there is provided a
   game controller operable to control play of a game, the
10 game controller comprising:
        a configuration module arranged to configure a
   secondary event trigger having a hit rate which is fixed
   over a plurality of games;
        a wager determination module arranged to determine an
15 amount wagered for play of one of the games;
        trigger module arranged to trigger a secondary game
   event in which a higher value prize and lower value prize
   are each eligible to be awarded upon determining the
   secondary event trigger during the game,  such that a
20 probability of awarding the higher value prize increases
   with the amount wagered in the game, while the probability
   of awarding the lower value prize decreases.
   In an embodiment the secondary event trigger is a symbol
25 driven trigger occurring during play of the base game.
   In an embodiment the prizes are  jackpot prizes funded from
   a jackpot prize pool.
30 In an embodiment a percentage of each wager is allocated
   to the jackpot prize pool.
   In an embodiment the probabilities are  set such that an

                                5
   average jackpot return over the plurality of games is
   substantially constant for a range of wager amounts.
   In an embodiment the prizes comprise a plurality of
 5 distinct higher and lower value prizes, a relative
   increase for each distinct prize with respect to the wager
   amount being dependent on a required rate of return.
   In an embodiment the controller further comprises an award
10 module operable to award a combination of the plurality of
   distinct prizes to achieve the required rate of return.
   In an embodiment the determined wager amount comprises an
   average wager amount over a number of games since a last
15 jackpot was awarded such that the relative probabilities
   are determined based on the average wager amount.
   In accordance with a third aspect the present invention
   provides a method of controlling a secondary game event in
20 a wager based game, the method comprising the steps of:
        determining an amount wagered for play of one of the
   games; and
        upon determining a particular trigger during play of
   the game, initiating the secondary game event in which a
25 higher value prize and lower value prize are each eligible
   to be awarded, such that a probability of being awarded
   the higher value prize increases with the amount wagered
   in the game, while the probability of achieving the lower
   value prize decreases and such that a rate at which the
30 secondary game event is triggered is independent of the
   amount wagered for play of the game.
   In an embodiment the rate at which the secondary game

                                6
   event is triggered is fixed.
   In accordance with a fourth aspect the present invention
   provides a method of controlling a secondary game event in
 5 a wager based game, the method comprising the steps of:
        determining an amount wagered for play of one of the
   games; and
        upon determining a particular trigger during play of
   the game, initiating the secondary game event in which a
10 higher value prize and lower value prize are each eligible
   to be awarded, such that a probability of being awarded
   the higher value prize increases with the amount wagered
   in the game, while the probability of achieving the lower
   value prize decreases and such that the secondary game
15 event is triggered once on average for every n games,
   where n is greater than two.
   In accordance with a fifth aspect there is provided a game
   controller operable to control play of a game, the game
20 controller comprising:
        a wager determination module arranged to determine an
   amount wagered for play of one of the games;
        trigger module arranged to trigger a secondary game
   event in which a higher value prize and lower value prize
25 are each eligible to be awarded upon determining a
   secondary event trigger during the game, such that a
   probability of awarding the higher value prize increases
   with the amount wagered in the game, while the probability
   of awarding the lower value prize decreases and wherein a
30 hit rate for the secondary game event trigger is
   independent of the amount wagered.
   In accordance with a sixth aspect the present invention

                                7
   provides a gaming system comprising a game controller in
   accordance with the second or fifth aspects and at least
   one gaming device providing a display arranged to display
   play of the game.
 5
   In accordance with a seventh aspect the present invention
   provides a computer program comprising instructions for
   controlling a game controller in accordance with the
   second aspect or a method in accordance with the first
10 aspect.
   In accordance with an eighth aspect the present invention
   provides a tangible computer readable medium providing a
   computer program in accordance with the seventh aspect.
15
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   Features and advantages of the present invention will
   become apparent from the following description of
   embodiments thereof, by way of example only, with
20 reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of core components
   of a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention;
25
   Figure 2 is a diagrammatic representation of a gaming
   system in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention with the gaming system implemented in the form
   of a stand alone gaming machine;
30
   Figure 3 is a schematic block diagram of operative
   components of the gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of components of a
35 memory of the gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a gaming system in

                                 8
   accordance with an alternative embodiment of the present
   invention with the gaming system implemented over a
   network;
 5 Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of functional components
   of a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention;
   Figure 7 is a flow diagram illustrating operation of a
10 gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention; and
   Figures 8 & 9 are example game payout tables in accordance
   with embodiments of the present invention.
15
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
   In an embodiment there is provided a game controller
   operable to control play of a game on a gaming device.
   The game controller comprises a configuration module
20 arranged to configure a secondary event trigger having a
   hit rate which is fixed over a plurality of games;  a wager
   determination module arranged to determine an amount
   wagered for play of one of the games.   A trigger module,
   also implemented by the game controller, is arranged to
25 initiate a secondary game event, in which a higher value
   jackpot and lower value  jackpot are each eligible to be
   awarded, upon detecting the secondary event trigger in the
   game.  The secondary game event is configured such that a
   probability of awarding the higher jackpot increases with
30 the amount wagered, while the probability of awarding the
   lower value jackpot decreases.   In this manner, the game
   controller is operable to provide a jackpot prize awarding
   technique which triggers  jackpots at the same frequency
   irrespective of the amount wagered, but which may still

                                9
   provide an average jackpot return which is related to the
   wagered amount.
   General construction of a gaming system
 5
   The gaming system can take a number of different forms. In
   a first form, a stand-alone gaming machine is provided
   wherein all or most components required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
10
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
   and some of the components required for implementing the
15 game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.
   For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client"
20 architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
   executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
25
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
30 gaming server are selectively modifiable.  For example,
   the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,

                                 10
   and so on. Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises
 5 several core components. At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface   50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is
   arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
10 input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions and play the game.
   Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
15 credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54,   a game play
   mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions  (e.g. to place bets),  and one or more
   speakers 58.
20
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor   62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
25 display. Typically, the game play instructions are stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:   a
30 microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable   logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
   (e.g. a PC) or a server.

                                 11
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10  is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
 5 by a player.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22  for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
10 chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.    Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.   A player marketing module  (not shown) having a
   reading device may also be provided for the purpose of
15 reading a player tracking device,   for example as part of a
   loyalty program.   The player tracking device may be in the
   form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
   medium capable of being read by the reading device.
20 A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.    Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.   A  coin tray 30 is mounted
25 beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14  shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
30 device.   Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.   The top box 26 may also include

                                 12
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14,    or of a different
   type.
 5 Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
10 having a processor 102.   Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are   stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
15 type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
20 player credit, an input/output   (I/O)  interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.   The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
   own memory for storing associated instructions and data
25 for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.  A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers  for use by the processor 102.    Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
   random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
30
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 comprise one or more displays    106, a touch

                                 13
   screen and/or buttons 107,  a card and/or ticket reader
   108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input
   mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.   Additional
   hardware may be included as part of the gaming machine
 5 100, or hardware may be omitted as required for the
   specific implementation.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface,  for example a network card 112.
10 The network card may, for example,  send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
15
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
20 execution by the processor 102 and related data.   The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.   The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
25 the processor 102 using protected code  from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
30 input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an

                                14
   alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
   Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
 5 network 201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player
   operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
   simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.  While banks 203 of two gaming
10 machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
   or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be
15 associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
20
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game. With this embodiment, as both the game server and
25 the gaming device implement part of the game, they
   collectively provide a game controller. A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
30 gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.  A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.

                                 15
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
 5 provides only the player interface.    With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller. The
   gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
10 display.  In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
   that provides a player interface operable using standard
   computer input and output components.
15 Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200,   including for
   example a gaming floor management   server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.    An administrator terminal
20 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks,   for example a corporate
25 network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques,   functionality at the
30 server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.    For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one   server or a
   separate server may be provided.    For example, the game

                                  16
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.   Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
 5 provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
   Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that the
10 method of the preferred embodiment could be embodied in
   program code. The program code could be supplied in a
   number of ways, for example on a computer readable medium,
   such as a disc or a memory   (for example, that could
   replace part of memory 103)   or as a data signal   (for
15 example, by downloading it from a server).
   Embodiments may be implemented in relation to a spinning
   reel type game. Gaming systems    for implementing games that
   involve a display of spinning reels as part of the display
20 of the outcome of a game have either a video display or a
   mechanical display, these later machines most usually
   being "stepper" machines which have a separate motor for
   each reel. However, persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that the invention can be implemented in
25 respect of other forms of games, including;    card games;
   ball draw games  (e.g. bingo or keno);   dice games;  and pin
   and ball games.
   In some implementations the game controllers of such
30 gaming machines select symbols by employing a stop
   determining function that randomly determines the stop
   position for each reel.   For example, if there are five
   reels, each having twenty symbols, the stop determining

                                  17
   function might determine that the stop positions are
   positions:  3, 13,  7, 9 and 17.   The spinning of the reels
   is then controlled so that each symbol comes to a stop in
   the same row, typically a predetermined row in a "window"
 5 visible to the player on the display that which
   corresponds to a player playing a single win line.      When a
   reel  stops, the symbols will be in one of a plurality of
   possible symbol positions for that reel relative to the
   stop position.
10
   Spinning reel type games typically allow a player to
   select how many win lines of a plurality of win lines they
   will play in each game -   i.e. a minimum of one win line up
   to the maximum number of win lines allowed by the game.
15 Persons,  skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other
   embodiments, the player may select a number of reels to
   play. Each win line is formed by a set of symbol positions
   consisting of one symbol position from each reel.      That
   is,  a predetermined symbol position of each reel is
20 assigned to a win line.    The  symbol positions that
   constitute each of the win lines are usually advertised to
   the player by markings on the display or diagrams     showing
   the symbol positions that correspond to each win line.
   Some of the win lines will be horizontal or diagonal
25 lines.   Typically, the win lines will be constituted by
   symbol positions in the visible window.     A game outcome is
   determined based on the symbols on the win lines and a
   prize table that specifies awards.
30 MORE DETAIL OF THE GAME CONTROLLER
   The game controller 60 of an embodiment is shown in more
   detail in Figure   6.  As described in the preceding

                                 18
   paragraphs, embodiments of the present invention are
   operable to provide a  jackpot prize awarding technique
   which has an average return that is tied to an amount
   wagered by a player in the game, but which is triggered at
 5 a rate which is independent of the wagered amount.
   According to a specific embodiment, this is achieved by
   awarding distinct  jackpots of different prize value in a
   secondary event  (such as a bonus game) triggered during
   play of a base game,  such that the probability of being
10 awarded a higher paying jackpot prize in the secondary
   event increases as a function of the amount wagered in the
   base game, while the probability of being awarded a lower
   paying jackpot prize decreases.   In other words, the
   jackpot may be treated much like a feature event whereby
15 the jackpot is won at a fixed rate independent of the
   wager but whereby the final prize value is related to the
   wager.  For simplicity, only those modules needed to carry
   out such embodiments are illustrated in Figure   6.   Other
   standard and/or non-standard modules may also be
20 implemented for carrying out operation of normal and
   feature game play functionality.
   It will be understood that the jackpot prizes may be
   funded from a jackpot prize pool that is implemented by
25 the game controller 60,  or by some remote jackpot
   controller  (e.g. incorporated into the jackpot server 207,
   as previously described).   The prize pool may be made up
   of contributions from a single gaming machine or    from a
   collection of gaming machines that are each eligible to be
30 awarded the jackpot prize.   Alternatively, the jackpot
   prize may be some other major prize that is independent of
   machine contributions.   Such variations are within the
   purview of the skilled person.

                                 19
   The game controller 60 includes a processor 62 which is
   arranged to control game play and determine a game
   outcome.  It will be apparent that the processor 62
 5 implements a number of modules, namely a configuration
   module 620, random number generator module    (RNG) 621,
   symbol selector module 622,  outcome determiner module 623,
   award determiner module 624,  wager determination module
   625, trigger module 626 and display controller module 627,
10 based on data stored in memory 64.    Persons  skilled in the
   art will appreciate that not all modules need be
   implemented by processor 62.   For example, the random
   number generator module 621 could be implemented by a
   separate circuit or by a random number generator server.
15
   In the following description, embodiments will be
   described in the context of a wager based game having a
   plurality of reels  (each carrying a plurality of   symbols),
   which are spun to determine game outcomes.     However, it
20 will be understood that embodiments are equally applicable
   to non-reel based games including card games, dice games,
   numbered ball games, or indeed any type of game of chance
   where markers with different values/symbols are utilised.
25 During each game of the reel game, the wager determination
   module 625 of the game controller 60 determines an amount
   wagered by a player in the game   (e.g. by selecting a
   button corresponding to the wager amount on the gaming
   machine which causes a signal to be sent to the game
30 controller 60 to notify the game controller of the wager
   amount).  The symbol selector 622 then selects symbols to
   be displayed in a reel window displaying a plurality of
   reels, based on symbol data 641 stored in memory 64,
   specifying the available symbols.    The symbols to appear
35 in the reel window are selected by the symbol selector 622
   using a random number, or seed, obtained from the random
   number generator 621.   The outcome determiner module 623

                                 20
   determines the game outcomes and their associated prizes
   based on the number of win lines the player is playing,
   the amount wagered and the resultant symbol combinations.
   In the presently described embodiment, certain game
 5 outcomes include secondary event triggers   (hereafter
   "jackpot triggers") which are   set by the configuration
   module 620 and which collectively have a fixed hit      rate.
   That is, the rate at which the secondary event is
   triggered is fixed over a plurality of games irrespective
10 of the amount wagered in the base game. For example, it
   may be decided to trigger the secondary game event once on
   average for every 100 games played.    It will be understood
   that the actual hit rate  selected can be any particular
   rate depending on the desired implementation.      The jackpot
15 trigger may be a symbol driven trigger such as a
   predetermined number or combination of   special symbols
   appearing on a selected pay line, or alternatively
   appearing in any location within the reel window      (referred
   to as a "scatter" trigger).   The reel window and
20 corresponding game outcomes are displayed on the display
   54, under control of the display controller 627.
   Responsive to determining that a   jackpot trigger has
   occurred in the base game, the trigger module 626 is
25 operable to either instantly award at least one of a
   plurality of distinct jackpot prizes, or trigger a
   secondary jackpot game in which the at least one distinct
   jackpot prizes is awarded.   In the embodiments described
   herein, a secondary game is triggered upon detecting three
30 scattered "X" symbols in the base game.
   The determination as to which jackpot prize    (or
   combination of jackpot prizes) to be awarded is based on
   the amount wagered, such that a probability of achieving a
35 higher valued jackpot increases with the amount wagered,

                                  21
   while the probability of achieving a lower valued jackpot
   decreases.    In other words, for small bets a smaller
   jackpot is won more often, whereas for larger bets a
   larger   jackpot is won more often.   The aforementioned
 5 technique advantageously provides that the frequency of
   awarding jackpot prizes remains constant irrespective of
   the wagered amount, while at the same time rewarding
   players who wager larger amounts on the game with a
   greater chance at being awarded a higher paying jackpot.
10
   The method 700 of the invention is summarised in
   Figure 700. At step 710 a secondary game event trigger is
   set, the trigger having a hit rate which is fixed over a
   plurality of games.    At step 712, a wager staked on the
15 game is determined by the wager determination module 625.
   The controller 60 then carries out play of a base game and
   outcomes are determined by the outcome determiner module
   623,   as previously described  (step 714).   At step 716,
   upon determining that the secondary game event has been
20 triggered, the trigger module 626 initiates a secondary
   game event in which a higher value prize     (hereafter "major
   jackpot") and lower value prize    (hereafter "minor
   jackpot") are each eligible to be awarded, such that a
   probability of being awarded the major jackpot increases
25 with the amount wagered, while the probability of being
   awarded the minor jackpot decreases.     At step 718, the
   award determiner   624 determines the total award payable to
   the player.
30 The aforementioned jackpot awarding technique can be
   described mathematically as follows, where the minor
   jackpot is referred to as "j"    and the major jackpot as
   "NJ"I.

                                  22
   More detailed examples of embodiments will now be
   described.   According to each embodiment, the game is in
   the form of a reel game.
 5
   Example 1
   According to a first example embodiment, the reel game is
   configured such that three or more scatter symbols trigger
10 a secondary game   (hereafter "jackpot  feature") at a rate T
   of 1 in 100,  for an average return R of 10%. The minor
   jackpot is set at   j = 10 credits start-up, while the major
   jackpot start-up is set at J = 100 credits. A player
   betting one credit may be awarded the minor jackpot     j
15 every jackpot  feature for 10 credits at 1 in 100 credits
   bet, i.e. R =  10%. However for a wager of 10 credits the
   player would be awarded J = 100,   also with a return of
   10%. In an embodiment, there may be an option for a player
   to wager five credits in the game.     In this case, the
20 probability of being awarded the minor jackpot    j  of 10
   credits may be set to 5/9, while the probability of
   winning a major jackpot is set to 4/9 to achieve the
   desired 10%  return as follows.
25 10 x 5/9 + 100 x 4/9 = 450/9 = 50 credits.
   It will be understood that the same calculations for
   achieving a desired return can be applied to any number of
   different wagers and for any number of distinct     jackpot
30 prizes, dependent only on the desired configuration.

                                  23
   Example 2
   A combination of four distinct progressive     jackpots may be
 5 awarded upon triggering of the jackpot     feature. The four
   jackpots are divided into two lower paying jackpots having
   start-up values of   $10 and $20  respectively, and two
   higher paying jackpots with start-ups of $1000 and $2000.
   The game offers a  jackpot return of 15%, again triggered
10 one in every hundred games and with wagers ranging from $1
   to $100. According to this example embodiment, for $1
   wagered the game mostly awards the lower paying jackpots
   for an average return of $15.    When the player wagers $100
   for 100 games  (i.e. for a contribution of $10,000
15 turnover),  the jackpots mostly consist of the higher
   paying progressive   jackpots of $1000   (i.e. 10% return) and
   $2000  (20% return).
   A pay scale for a  jackpot feature game similar to that
20 described above is shown in Figure 8, with the jackpot
   probability plotted on the vertical axis and the total
   wager amount plotted on the horizontal axis. When the
   wager is low the MINOR and MINI    jackpots  (i.e. the lower
   paying jackpots) have a high probability of being awarded
25 while the GRAND and MAJOR jackpots    (i.e. the higher paying
   jackpots) have low probabilities. In contrast, when the
   wager is relatively large the MINOR and MINI jackpots have
   a lower probability of being awarded whereas the GRAND and
   MAJOR jackpots have higher probabilities.
30
   It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that
   the adjustment in probability need not be smooth or
   continuous as the wager increases.     For example,  some

                                  24
   jackpots could be available only for some wager intervals
   while still providing the same average    jackpot return.
   Example 3
 5
   According to the third example embodiment, a game offers a
   combination of jackpots to provide a 10%    average jackpot
   return.   The  jackpot is triggered every 1 in 200 games
   with wagers ranging from $1 to $50.     The jackpots are
10 worth $20,  $100 and $1000 respectively. With reference to
   Figure  9, the probabilities are set such that a wager of
   $1 will only ever trigger the $20   jackpot. For wagers
   above $1 but less than $5,   a distribution of $20 and $100
   jackpots will be awarded, while a wager of $5 will always
15 award the $100   jackpot.  Wagers of between $5 and $50   will
   award either the $100   or $1000 jackpots and finally the
   major $1000   jackpot is awarded for $50  wagers only.
   It is possible to combine the present invention with a
20 traditional approach of making the feature trigger
   probability proportional to the bet. A wager increase of
   four credits could be accommodated with a two times better
   trigger rate and a   'probability slide',  as described
   above, to accommodate the increased probability
25 distribution in the jackpot feature.
   The adjustment of the jackpot according to the wager may
   be done in part by repeating the jackpot. For example, a
   wager of  six credits may have a three times better return
30 due to the increased wager and be awarded twice over.
   For each of the above described embodiments, the rate at
   which the secondary game event triggered was fixed over a

                                 25
   particular number of games  (e.g. triggered once on average
   every 100 games).  However, in an alternative embodiment,
   the rate may be fixed for a particular time period, or the
   like.
 5
   Further it will be understood that the prizes awarded in
   the secondary event need not be jackpot prizes but instead
   could be any form of prize.   For example, the higher
   paying prize could be an award of 20 free games while the
10 lower paying prize could be an award of 10 free games.
   Such modifications are within the purview of the skilled
   person.
   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that
15 numerous variations and/or modifications may be made to
   the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without
   departing from the spirit or   scope of the invention as
   broadly described.   The present embodiments are,
   therefore, to be considered in all respects as
20 illustrative and not  restrictive.

                                26
   CLAIMS:
   1.   A method of controlling a secondary game event in a
 5 wager based game, the method comprising the steps of:
        configuring a secondary event trigger having a hit
   rate which is fixed over a plurality of games;
        determining an amount wagered for play of a game;
        upon determining the secondary event trigger during
10 the game, initiating a secondary game event in which a
   higher value prize and lower value prize are each eligible
   to be awarded, such that a probability of being awarded
   the higher value prize increases with the amount wagered
   in the game, while the probability of achieving the lower
15 value prize decreases.
   2.   A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the hit
   rate is fixed over an indefinite number of games.
20 3.   A method of gaming in accordance with claim 1 or
   claim 2, wherein the trigger is a symbol driven trigger
   occurring during play of the corresponding game.
   4.   A method of gaming in accordance with any one of
25 claims 1 to 3, wherein the prizes are jackpot prizes that
   are funded from a jackpot prize pool.
   5.   A method of gaming in accordance with claim 4,
   comprising the further step of allocating a percentage of
30 each wager to the jackpot prize pool.
   6.   A method of gaming in accordance with any one of the
   claims 4 to 5, comprising the further step of setting the

                                27
   probabilities such that an average jackpot return over the
   plurality of games is substantially constant for a range
   of wager amounts.
 5 7.   A method of gaming in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, comprising the further step of
   determining which of the higher or lower value prize to
   award based on the wagered amount and awarding the
   determined prize.
10
   8.    A method of gaming in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, further comprising a plurality of
   distinct higher and lower value prizes, a relative
   increase for each prize with respect to the wager amount
15 being dependent on a required rate of return.
   9.   A method in accordance with claim 8, comprising the
   further step of awarding a combination of the plurality of
   distinct prizes to achieve the required rate of return.
20
   10.  A method of gaming in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein the step of determining a wager
   amount comprises determining an average wager amount over
   a number of games since a last jackpot was awarded such
25 that the relative probabilities are determined based on
   the average wager amount.
   11.  A game controller operable to control play of a game,
   the game controller comprising:
30      a configuration module arranged to configure a
   secondary event trigger having a hit rate which is fixed
   over a plurality of games;
        a wager determination module arranged to determine an

                                 28
   amount wagered for play of one of the games;
        trigger module arranged to trigger a secondary game
   event in which a higher value prize and lower value prize
   are each eligible to be awarded upon determining the
 5 trigger in the game,  such that a probability of awarding
   the higher value prize increases with the amount wagered
   in the game, while the probability of awarding the lower
   value prize decreases.
10 12.  A game controller in accordance with claim 11,
   wherein the hit  rate is fixed over an indefinite number of
   games.
   13.  A game controller in accordance with claim 11 or 12,
15 wherein the trigger is a symbol driven trigger.
   14.  A game controller in accordance with any one of
   claims 11 to 13,  wherein the prizes are jackpot prizes
   funded from a jackpot prize pool.
20
   15.  A game controller in accordance with claim 14,
   wherein a percentage of each wager is allocated to the
   jackpot prize pool.
25 16.  A game controller in accordance with any one of
   claims 11 to 15,  wherein the probabilities are set such
   that an average jackpot return over the plurality of games
   is substantially constant for a range of wager amounts.
30 17.  A game controller in accordance with any one of
   claims 11 to 16, wherein the prizes comprise a plurality
   of distinct higher and lower value prizes, a relative
   increase for each distinct prize with respect to the wager

                                29
   amount being dependent on a required rate of return.
   18.  A game controller in accordance with claim 17,
   further comprising an award module operable to award a
 5 combination of the plurality of distinct prizes to achieve
   the required rate of return.
   19.  A game controller in accordance with any one of
   claims 11 to 18, wherein the determined wager amount is an
10 average wager amount over a number of games since a last
   jackpot was awarded such that the relative probabilities
   are determined based on the average wager amount.
   20.  A gaming system comprising a game controller as
15 claimed in any one of claims 11 to 19; and at least one
   gaming device providing a display arranged to display play
   of the game.
   21.  A method of controlling a secondary game event in a
20 wager based game, the method comprising the steps of:
        determining an amount wagered for play of one of the
   games; and
        upon determining a particular trigger during play of
   the game, initiating the secondary game event in which a
25 higher value prize and lower value prize are each eligible
   to be awarded, such that a probability of being awarded
   the higher value prize increases with the amount wagered
   in the game, while the probability of achieving the lower
   value prize decreases and such that a rate at which the
30 secondary game event is triggered is independent of the
   amount wagered for play of the game.
   22.  A method in accordance with claim 21, wherein the

                                30
   rate at which the secondary game event is triggered is
   fixed.
   23.  A method of controlling a secondary game event in a
 5 wager based game, the method comprising the steps of:
        determining an amount wagered for play of one of the
   games; and
        upon determining a particular trigger during play of
   the game, initiating the secondary game event in which a
10 higher value prize and lower value prize are each eligible
   to be awarded, such that a probability of being awarded
   the higher value prize increases with the amount wagered
   in the game, while the probability of achieving the lower
   value prize decreases and such that the secondary game
15 event is triggered once on average for every n games,
   where n is greater than two.
   24.  A game controller operable to control play of a game,
   the game controller comprising:
20      a wager determination module arranged to determine an
   amount wagered for play of one of the games;
        trigger module arranged to trigger a secondary game
   event in which a higher value prize and lower value prize
   are each eligible to be awarded upon determining a
25 secondary event trigger during the game, such that a
   probability of awarding the higher value prize increases
   with the amount wagered in the game, while the probability
   of awarding the lower value prize decreases and wherein a
   hit rate for the secondary game event trigger is
30 independent of the amount wagered.
   25.  A computer program comprising instructions for
   controlling a game controller or system in accordance with

                               31
  any one of claims 11 to 20 or 24.
  26.  A tangible computer readable medium providing a
  computer program in accordance with claim 25.
5

                              1/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                         60
                       62           64
              52       54           56   50
                   Figure 1

                                               2/7
<removed-date>
                                                            10
                    28
<removed-apn>
                    26
                              CREDIT BET WIN
                         16                                12
                   14
                                                     24
              20
                                                     24A
               22
                                   24B
               29
              30
                                       Figure 2

                                          3/7
<removed-date>
                                                                              100
                               Game Controller
                                        113
              Memory                                   RNG
<removed-apn>
                               103
                                Processor                Network Card
                                       102                   104        112
                               105
                I/O                                   Meters
                                                                                101
                                                    Card/ticket
              Displays         Touch Screen
                                                     Reader
                         106                  107                 108
                               Coin input/bill
              Printer                               Coin Output
                                 acceptor
                         109                  110                 111
                                  Figure 3                                          120
                                                       Mass storage
              RAM                    EPROM
                                                         device
              103A                    103B
                                                          103C
                                                                        103
                                  Figure 4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                  <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
           60
                          627
                                                   62
display controller                                                    64
                                            621
                                      RNG
                                            620                            641
                Configuration module                    Symbol data
                                                                                    5/7
                                            626                            642
                     Trigger module                     Match rule data
                                                                           643
                                                        Sequence data
                                            622
              Symbol selector module
             Award determiner module        624
                                            625
           Wager determiner module
                                            623
           Outcome determiner module
                 Figure 6

                                   6/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              700
                    Configure secondary event          710
                              trigger
                     Determine wager amount            712
                      and initiate base game
                                                       714
                    Determine outcome of base
                              game
                                                 716
                    No       Jackpot
                            Triggered?
                                    Yes
                       Initiate secondary game
                         and determine which
                                                   718
                     jackpot to award based on
                                 wager
                                  Figure 7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
