                                             ABSTRACT
         In certain aspects, the present invention provides compositions and methods for
  promoting bone growth and increasing bone density, as well as for the treatment of multiple
5 myeloma. Methods for dosing a patient with an ActRIIb antagonist are also provided.

                            ACTRIIB ANTAGONISTS AND DOSING AND
                                             USES THEREOF
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
            The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
 5 No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
            This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/276,287, filed
   on September 9, 2009, the teachings of which are incorporated by reference herein in their
   entirety.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10          Disorders of the bone, ranging from osteoporosis to fractures, represent a set of
   pathological states for which there are few effective pharmaceutical agents. Treatment instead
   focuses on physical and behavioral interventions, including immobilization, exercise and
   changes in diet. It would be beneficial to have therapeutic agents that promote bone growth and
   increase bone density for the purpose of treating a variety of bone disorders.
15          Bone growth and mineralization are dependent on the activities of two cell types,
   osteoclasts and osteoblasts, although chondrocytes and cells of the vasculature also participate in
   critical aspects of these processes. Developmentally, bone formation occurs through two
   mechanisms, endochondral ossification and intramembranous ossification, with the former
   responsible for longitudinal bone formation and the later responsible for the formation of
20 topologically flat bones, such as the bones of the skull. Endochondral ossification requires the
   sequential formation and degradation of cartilaginous structures in the growth plates that serve as
   templates for the formation of osteoblasts, osteoclasts, the vasculature and subsequent
   mineralization. During intramembranous ossification, bone is formed directly in the connective
   tissues. Both processes require the infiltration of osteoblasts and subsequent matrix deposition.
25          Fractures and other structural disruptions of bone are healed through a process that, at
   least superficially, resembles the sequence of developmental events of osteogenesis, including
   the formation of cartilaginous tissue and subsequent mineralization. The process of fracture
   healing can occur in two ways. Direct or primary bone healing occurs without callus formation.
   Indirect or secondary bone healing occurs with a callus precursor stage. Primary healing of
30 fractures involves the reformation of mechanical continuity across a closely-set disruption.
   Under suitable conditions, bone-resorbing cells surrounding the disruption show a tunnelling
   resorptive response and establish pathways for the penetration of blood vessels
                                                    - 1-

   and subsequent healing. Secondary healing of bones follows a process of inflammation, soft
   callus formation, callus mineralisation and callus remodelling. In the inflammation stage,
   haematoma and haemorrhage formation results from the disruption of periosteal and
   endosteal blood vessels at the site of injury. Inflammatory cells invade the area. In soft
   callus formation stage, the cells produce new vessels, fibroblasts, intracellular material and
   supporting cells, forming granulation tissue in the space between the fracture fragments.
   Clinical union across the disruption is established by fibrous or cartilaginous tissue (soft
   callus). Osteoblasts are formed and mediate the mineralization of soft callus, which is then
   replaced by lamellar bone and subjected to the normal remodeling processes.
           In addition to fractures and other physical disruptions of bone structure, loss of bone
   mineral content and bone mass can be caused by a wide variety of conditions and may result
   in significant medical problems. Changes to bone mass occur in a relatively predictable way
   over the life of an individual. Up to about age 30, bones of both men and women grow to
   maximal mass through linear growth of the endochondral growth plates and radial growth.
 5 After about age 30 (for trabecular bone, e.g., flat bones such as the vertebrae and pelvis) and
   age 40 (for cortical bone, e.g., long bones found in the limbs), slow bone loss occurs in both
   men and women. In women, a final phase of substantial bone loss also occurs, probably due
   to postmenopausal estrogen deficiencies. During this phase, women may lose an additional
    10% of bone mass from the cortical bone and 25% from the trabecular compartment.
 ) Whether progressive bone loss results in a pathological condition such as osteoporosis
   depends largely on the initial bone mass of the individual and whether there are exacerbating
   conditions.
           Bone loss is sometimes characterized as an imbalance in the normal bone remodeling
   process. Healthy bone is constantly subject to remodeling. Remodeling begins with
5  resorption of bone by osteoclasts. The resorbed bone is then replaced by new bone tissue,
   which is characterized by collagen formation by osteoblasts, and subsequent calcification. In
   healthy individuals the rates of resorption and formation are balanced. Osteoporosis is a
   chronic, progressive condition, marked by a shift towards resorption, resulting in an overall
   decrease in bone mass and bone mineralization. Osteoporosis in humans is preceded by
0  clinical osteopenia (bone mineral density that is greater than one standard deviation but less
   than 2.5 standard deviations below the mean value for young adult bone). Worldwide,
   approximately 75 million people are at risk for osteoporosis.
                                                    -2-

            Thus, methods for controlling the balance between osteoclast and osteoblast activity
   can be useful for promoting the healing of fractures and other damage to bone as well as the
   treatment of disorders, such as osteoporosis, associated with loss of bone mass and bone
   mineralization.
 5          With respect to osteoporosis, estrogen, calcitonin, osteocalcin with vitamin K, or high
   doses of dietary calcium are all used as therapeutic interventions. Other therapeutic
   approaches to osteoporosis include bisphosphonates, parathyroid hormone, calcimimetics,
   statins, anabolic steroids, lanthanum and strontium salts, and sodium fluoride. Such
   therapeutics, however, are often associated with undesirable side effects.
 )          Thus, it is an object of the present disclosure to provide compositions and methods for
   promoting bone growth and mineralization.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            In part, the disclosure demonstrates that ActRIIb antagonists, including ActRIlb
 5 based molecules (e.g., molecules comprising a ligand-binding portion of an ActRIIb
   extracellular domain or a variant thereof, such as an ActRlIb-Fc) and other antagonists of
   ActRIIb signaling, can be used to increase bone density, promote bone growth, and/or
   increase bone strength. In particular, the disclosure demonstrates that a soluble form of
   ActRIIb promotes increased bone density, bone growth, and bone strength in vivo. While
 ) most pharmaceutical agents that promote bone growth or inhibit bone loss act as either anti
   catabolic agents (also commonly referred to as "catabolic agents") (e.g., bisphosphonates) or
   anabolic agents (e.g., parathyroid hormone, PTH, when appropriately dosed), the soluble
   ActRIIb protein exhibits dual activity, having both anti-catabolic and anabolic effects. Thus,
   ActRIIb antagonists may be used to increase bone density and promote bone growth. Anti
5  ActRIIb antibodies, and ActRlIb-targeted small molecules and aptamers, and nucleic acids
   that decrease expression of ActRIIb may also be used to treat disorders associated with low
   bone density or low bone strength, such as osteoporosis, or to promote bone growth in
   patients in need thereof, such as in patients having a bone fracture (such molecules are also
   included in the term "ActRIIb antagonists" as used herein). The disclosure further indicates
0  that ActRIlb antagonists are effective in preventing and/or repairing bone damage caused by
   multiple myeloma tumors and metastases to the bone (e.g., in breast, esophageal, colon,
                                                      -3-

   prostate or lung cancer) and, additionally, that ActRIIb antagonists diminish the tumor load in
   multiple myeloma.
           ActRIlb antagonists may also be used for the treatment of a variety of disorders or
   conditions, in particular, muscle and neuromuscular disorders (e.g., muscular dystrophy,
 5 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and muscle atrophy), adipose tissue disorders (e.g.,
   obesity), metabolic disorders (e.g., type 2 diabetes), neurodegenerative disorders, and muscle
   wasting associated with old age (sarcopenia), prostate cancer therapy, and cancer cachexia.
   In specific embodiments, ActRIlb antagonists (e.g., soluble ActRIIb polypeptides) can
   antagonize an ActRllb receptor in any process associated with ActRIlb activity. Optionally,
 ) ActRIIb antagonists of the invention may be designed to preferentially antagonize one or
   more ligands of ActRIIb receptors, such as GDF8 (also called myostatin), GDF 11, activin A,
   activin B, activin AB, Nodal, and BMP7 (also called OP-1), and may therefore be useful in
   the treatment of additional disorders. Examples of ActRIlb antagonists include the naturally
   occurring ActRIIb polypeptides as well as functional variants thereof
 5          In certain aspects, the disclosure provides polypeptides comprising a soluble, ActRIIb
   polypeptide. ActRIlb polypeptides may be formulated as a pharmaceutical preparation
   comprising the ActRIlb polypeptide and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Optionally,
   the ActRIIb polypeptide binds to activin with a KD less than 1 micromolar or less than 100,
   10 or I nanomolar. Preferably the composition is at least 95% pure, with respect to other
 ) polypeptide components, as assessed by size exclusion chromatography, and more preferably,
   the composition is at least 98% pure. An ActRIIb polypeptide for use in such a preparation
   may be any of those disclosed herein, such as a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence
   selected from SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20, or having an amino acid sequence that is at
   least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97% or 99% identical to an amino acid sequence selected from
5  SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20. An ActRlIb polypeptide may include a functional fragment
   of a natural ActRIIb polypeptide, such as one comprising at least 10, 20 or 30 amino acids of
   a sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1-3 or a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, lacking the C
   terminal 10 to 15 amino acids (the "tail"). An ActRIIb polypeptide may be encoded by a
   nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent conditions to the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO: 3 or
0  5.
           An ActRIIb polypeptide may include one or more alterations in the amino acid
   sequence (e.g., in the ligand-binding domain) relative to a naturally occurring ActRIIb
                                                     -4-

   polypeptide. Examples of altered ActRIIb polypeptides are provided in WO 2006/012627,
   pp. 59-60, incorporated by reference herein. The alteration in the amino acid sequence may,
   for example, alter glycosylation of the polypeptide when produced in a mammalian, insect or
   other eukaryotic cell or alter proteolytic cleavage of the polypeptide relative to the naturally
 5 occurring ActRIIb polypeptide.
            An ActR~lb polypeptide may be a fusion protein that has, as one domain, an ActRIIb
   polypeptide (e.g., a ligand-binding portion of an ActRIIb or variant thereof) and one or more
   additional domains that provide a desirable property, such as improved pharmacokinetics,
   easier purification, targeting to particular tissues, etc. For example, a domain of a fusion
 ) protein may enhance one or more of in vivo stability, in vivo half life, uptake/administration,
   tissue localization or distribution, formation of protein complexes, multimerization of the
   fusion protein, and/or purification. Dimerization or multimerization may provide increased
   ligand-binding affinity. An ActRIlb fusion protein may include an immunoglobulin Fc
   domain (wild-type or mutant) or a serum albumin or other polypeptide portion that provides
 5 desirable properties such as improved pharmacokinetics, improved solubility or improved
   stability. Typically, an ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein will be produced as a homodimeric
   complex. Optionally, an ActRIlb-Fc fusion comprises a relatively unstructured linker
   positioned between the Fc domain and the extracellular ActRIIb domain. This unstructured
   linker may correspond to the roughly 15 amino acid unstructured region at the C-terminal end
 ) of the extracellular domain of ActRIlb (the "tail"), or it may be an artificial sequence of 1, 2,
   3, 4 or 5 amino acids or a length of between 5 and 15, 20, 30, 50 or more amino acids that are
   relatively free of secondary structure, or a mixture of both. A linker may be rich in glycine
   and proline residues and may, for example, contain a single sequence of threonine/serine and
   glycines or repeating sequences of threonine/serine and glycines (e.g., TG3 , TG 4 , SG3 or SG4
5  singlets or repeats). A fusion protein may include a purification subsequence, such as an
   epitope tag, a FLAG tag, a polyhistidine sequence, and a GST fusion. Optionally, a soluble
   ActRIIb polypeptide includes one or more modified amino acid residues selected from: a
   glycosylated amino acid, a PEGylated amino acid, a farnesylated amino acid, an acetylated
   amino acid, a biotinylated amino acid, an amino acid conjugated to a lipid moiety, and an
0  amino acid conjugated to an organic derivatizing agent. A pharmaceutical preparation may
   also include one or more additional compounds such as a compound that is used to treat a
   bone disorder. Preferably, a pharmaceutical preparation is substantially pyrogen free. In
   general, it is preferable that an ActRIIb protein be expressed in a mammalian cell line that
                                                      -5-

   mediates suitably natural glycosylation of the ActRIIb protein so as to diminish the likelihood
   of an unfavorable immune response in a patient. Human and CHO cell lines have been used
   successfully, and it is expected that other common mammalian expression systems will be
   useful.
 5         In certain aspects, the disclosure provides nucleic acids encoding an ActRIIb
   polypeptide. An isolated polynucleotide may comprise a coding sequence for an ActRIIb
   polypeptide, such as described above. For example, an isolated nucleic acid may include a
   sequence coding for an extracellular domain (e.g., ligand-binding domain) of an ActRl~b and
   a sequence that would code for part or all of the transmembrane domain and/or the
 ) cytoplasmic domain of an ActRIIb, but for a stop codon positioned within the transmembrane
   domain or the cytoplasmic domain, or positioned between the extracellular domain and the
   transmembrane domain or cytoplasmic domain. For example, an isolated polynucleotide may
   comprise a full-length ActRlIb polynucleotide sequence such as SEQ ID NO: 4 or 5, or a
   partially truncated version, said isolated polynucleotide further comprising a transcription
 5 termination codon at least six hundred nucleotides before the 3'-terminus or otherwise
   positioned such that translation of the polynucleotide gives rise to an extracellular domain
   optionally fused to a truncated portion of a full-length ActRIlb. A preferred nucleic acid
   sequence is SEQ ID NO: 18. Nucleic acids disclosed herein may be operably linked to a
   promoter for expression, and the disclosure provides cells transformed with such recombinant
 ) polynucleotides. Preferably the cell is a mammalian cell such as a CHO cell.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for making an ActRIIb
   polypeptide. Such a method may include expressing any of the nucleic acids (e.g., SEQ ID
   NO: 4, 5 or 18) disclosed herein in a suitable cell, such as a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)
   cell. Such a method may comprise: a) culturing a cell under conditions suitable for
5  expression of the ActRIIb polypeptide, wherein said cell is transformed with an ActRIIb
   expression construct; and b) recovering the ActRIlb polypeptide so expressed. ActRIIb
   polypeptides may be recovered as crude, partially purified or highly purified fractions.
   Purification may be achieved by a series of purification steps, including, for example, one,
   two or three or more of the following, in any order: protein A chromatography, anion
0  exchange chromatography (e.g.,     Q sepharose),  hydrophobic interaction chromatography (e.g.,
   phenylsepharose), size exclusion chromatography, and cation exchange chromatography.
                                                     -6-

          In certain aspects, an ActRIIb antagonist disclosed herein, such as an ActRIIb
  polypeptide, may be used in a method for promoting bone growth or increasing bone density
  in a subject. In certain embodiments, the disclosure provides methods for treating a disorder
  associated with low bone density, or to promote bone growth, in patients in need thereof A
5 method may comprise administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of
  ActRIlb antagonist. In certain aspects, the disclosure provides uses of ActRIlb antagonist for
  making a medicament for the treatment of a disorder or condition as described herein.
          In certain aspects, the disclosure provides a method for identifying an agent that
  stimulates growth of, or increased mineralization of, bone. The method comprises: a)
) identifying a test agent that binds to a ligand-binding domain of an ActRIIb polypeptide; and
  b) evaluating the effect of the agent on growth of, or mineralization of, bone.
          In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for dosing a patient with an
  ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein, comprising administering an ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein to the
  patient on a dosing schedule that maintains a serum concentration of the ActRIIb-Fc fusion
5 protein of at least 8 pg/mL.
          In certain aspects, the disclosure provides a compound for use in dosing a patient with
  an ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein, wherein the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein is dosed on a schedule
  that maintains a serum concentration of the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein of at least 8 Ig/mL.
  Other exemplary compounds, uses and dosing regimens are described herein and in the
) claims.
  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies
  of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the
5 Office upon request any payment of the necessary fee.
          Figure 1 shows a multiple sequence alignment of various vertebrate ActRIIb proteins
  and human ActRIIA.
          Figure 2 shows a pharmacokinetic (PK) profile in human patients for a single dose of
  ActRIIb-Fc administered subcutaneously.
                                                    -7-

           Figure 3 shows the mean percent change in lean body mass at 15, 29 or 57 days after
   subcutaneous administration to human patients of a single dose of ActRIlb-Fc.
           Figure 4 shows the percent of subjects with > 0.5 kg (top panel) or 2 1.0 kg (bottom
   panel) increase in lean body mass at 15, 29 or 57 days after subcutaneous administration to
 5 human patients of a single dose of ActRIfb-Fc.
           Figure 5 shows the change in leptin, a serum biomarker of fat metabolism, at various
   time points after subcutaneous administration to human patients of a single dose of ActRIlb
   Fc.
           Figure 6 shows the change in adiponectin, a serum biomarker of fat metabolism, at
 ) various time points after subcutaneous administration to human patients of a single dose of
   ActRIlb-Fc.
           Figure 7 shows the mean percent change in bone-specific alkaline phosphatase
   (BSAP), a serum biomarker of bone formation, at various time points after subcutaneous
   administration to human patients of a single dose of ActRllb-Fc.
 5         Figure 8 shows the mean percent change in C-terminal type I collagen telopeptide
   (CTX), a serum biomarker of bone resoprtion, at various time points after subcutaneous
   administration to human patients of a single dose of ActRIlb-Fc.
           Figure 9 shows the mean percent change in serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)
   at various time points after subcutaneous administration to human patients of a single dose of
 ) ActRIIb-Fc.
           Figure 10 shows a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of a thigh cross-section in
   a representative human subject dosed with a single subcutaneous administration of 3 mg/kg
   of ActRIIb-Fc. The top panel shows an MRI evaluation of a thigh, the middle panel shows
   the baseline at day 9, the bottom panel shows the results at day 29 after dosing. Muscle is
5  shown in gray, subcutaneous fat is pink, and intramuscular fat is green.
           Figure 11 shows the mean percent change from baseline in thigh muscle volume at
   day 29 for human subjects dosed with a single subcutaneous administration of 1 mg/kg
   ActRIIb-Fc or 3 mg/kg ActRIlb-Fc as compared to placebo.
           Figure 12 shows an alignment of the signal sequence and extracellular domain of
0  ActRIIb from SEQ ID NO: I (residues 1-134 of SEQ IDNO: 1) with the extracellular domain
                                                   -8-

   of ActRIIb as represented by SEQ ID NO: 2. As shown, the signal sequence is 19 amino
   acids in length. Therefore, an amino acid at position X in SEQ ID NO: I has the
   corresponding position at X-19 in SEQ ID NO: 2. To illustrate, amino acid position 30 in
   SEQ ID NO: I is amino acid position 11 in SEQ ID NO: 2. A similar correlation may be
 5 determined for other ActRIb sequences described herein.
           Figure 13 shows an alignment of human ActRIla and ActRIlb. Boxed residues
   represent amino acid residues believed to directly contact ligand (i.e., the ligand binding
   pocket) based on composite analysis of multiple ActRIIb and ActRIla crystal structures.
           Figure 14 shows the pharmacokinetic profile of ActRIlb-hFc in the serum at various
   days during the multiple ascending dose study described in Example 5.
           Figure 15 shows serum concentrations of ActRIIb-hFc on the upper axis and the
   percentage change in follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) on the lower axis.
           Figure 16 shows the percent change in total body lean mass caused by varying doses
   of ActRIlb-hFc, as measured by DXA.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    I.     Overview
           The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily contains a variety of
   growth factors that share common sequence elements and structural motifs. These proteins
   are known to exert biological effects on a large variety of cell types in both vertebrates and
   invertebrates. Members of the superfamily perform important functions during embryonic
   development in pattern formation and tissue specification and can influence a variety of
   differentiation processes, including adipogenesis, myogenesis, chondrogenesis,
   cardiogenesis, hematopoiesis, neurogenesis, and epithelial cell differentiation. By
5  manipulating the activity of a member of the TGF-beta family, it is often possible to cause
   significant physiological changes in an organism. For example, the Piedmontese and Belgian
   Blue cattle breeds carry a loss-of-function mutation in the GDF8 (also called myostatin) gene
   that causes a marked increase in muscle mass. Grobet et al., Nat Genet. 1997, 17(l):71-4.
   Furthermore, in humans, inactive alleles of GDF8 are associated with increased muscle mass
0  and, reportedly, exceptional strength. Schuelke et al., N Engl J Med 2004, 350:2682-8.
                                                    -9-

            Activins are dimeric polypeptide growth factors that belong to the TGF-beta
   superfamily. There are three principle activin forms (A, B, and AB) that are
   homo/heterodimers of two closely related    P subunits   (PAPA,  Pnpk, and p3AP). The human
   genome also encodes an activin C and an activin E, which are primarily expressed in the
 5 liver. In the TGF-beta superfamily, activins are unique and multifunctional factors that can
   stimulate hormone production in ovarian and placental cells, support neuronal cell survival,
   influence cell-cycle progress positively or negatively depending on cell type, and induce
   mesodermal differentiation at least in amphibian embryos (DePaolo et al., 1991, Proc Soc Ep
   Biol Med. 198:500-512; Dyson et al., 1997, Curr Biol. 7:81-84; Woodruff, 1998, Biochem
 ) Pharmacol. 55:953-963). Moreover, erythroid differentiation factor (EDF) isolated from the
   stimulated human monocytic leukemic cells was found to be identical to activin A (Murata et
   al., 1988, PNAS, 85:2434). It has been suggested that activin A acts as a natural, positive
   regulator of erythropoiesis in the bone marrow. In several tissues, activin signaling is
   antagonized by its related heterodimer, inhibin. For example, during the release of follicle
 5 stimulating hormone (FSH) from the pituitary, activin promotes FSH secretion and synthesis,
   while inhibin prevents FSH secretion and synthesis. Other proteins that may regulate activin
   bioactivity and/or bind to activin include follistatin (FS), follistatin-related protein (FSRP),
   and a 2 -macroglobulin.
            TGF-p family signals are mediated by heteromeric complexes of type I and type II
 ) serine/ threonine kinase receptors, which phosphorylate and activate downstream Smad
   proteins upon ligand stimulation (Massagu6, 2000, Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 1:169-178).
   These type I and type II receptors are transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding
   extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic
   domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for
5  signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I
   receptors. Type I and 11 activin receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding,
   resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors.
            Two related type II receptors, ActRIla and ActRIIb, have been identified as the type II
   receptors for activins (Mathews and Vale, 1991, Cell 65:973-982; Attisano et al., 1992, Cell
0  68: 97-108). Besides activins, ActRila and ActRlIb can biochemically interact with several
   other TGF-p family proteins, including BMP7, Nodal, GDF8, and GDF II (Yamashita et al.,
    1995, J. Cell Biol. 130:217-226; Lee and McPherron, 2001, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 98:9306
                                                    -10-

   9311; Yeo and Whitman, 2001, Mol. Cell 7: 949-957; Oh et al., 2002, Genes Dev. 16:2749
   54). ALK4 is the primary type I receptor for activins, particularly for activin A, and ALK-7
   may serve as a receptor for activins as well, particularly for activin B.
            As demonstrated herein, an ActRIlb polypeptide (ActRIlb[20-134]-Fc) is effective to
 5 promote bone growth and increase bone density in vivo, while also increasing muscle mass.
   While not wishing to be bound to any particular mechanism, it is expected that the effect of
   ActRIb on bone is caused primarily by an activin antagonist effect. Regardless of
   mechanism, it is apparent from the data presented herein that ActRIb antagonists increase
   bone density, and affect bone biomarkers in manner that is consistent with a combine
 ) anabolic/anti-resorptive effect in humans. It should be noted that bone is a dynamic tissue,
   with growth or shrinkage and increased or decreased density depending on a balance of
   factors that produce bone and stimulate mineralization (primarily osteoblasts) and factors that
   destroy and demineralize bone (primarily osteoclasts). Bone growth and mineralization may
   be increased by increasing the productive factors, by decreasing the destructive factors, or
 5 both. The terms "promote bone growth" and "increase bone mineralization" refer to the
   observable physical changes in bone and are intended to be neutral as to the mechanism by
   which changes in bone occur.
            In addition to promoting bone growth, the disclosure contemplates using ActRIIb
   antagonists in treating or preventing diseases or conditions that are associated with abnormal
 ) activity of an ActRIIb or an ActRIlb ligand. For example, ActRIIb antagonists may be used
   to treat human or animal disorders or conditions. Examples of such disorders or conditions
   include, but are not limited to, metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes, impaired glucose
   tolerance, metabolic syndrome (e.g., syndrome X), and insulin resistance induced by trauma
   (e.g., bums or nitrogen imbalance); adipose tissue disorders (e.g., obesity); muscle and
5  neuromuscular disorders such as muscular dystrophy (including Duchenne muscular
   dystrophy); amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); muscle atrophy; organ atrophy; frailty;
   carpal tunnel syndrome; congestive obstructive pulmonary disease; and sarcopenia, cachexia
   and other muscle wasting syndromes. Other examples include osteoporosis, especially in the
   elderly and/or postmenopausal women; glucocorticoid-induced osteopomsis; osteopenia;
0  osteoarthritis; and osteoporosis-related fractures. Yet further examples include low bone
   mass due to chronic glucocorticoid therapy, premature gonadal failure, androgen suppression,
                                                    -11-

   vitamin D deficiency, secondary hyperparathyroidism, nutritional deficiencies, and anorexia
   nervosa.
            This disclosure provides methods for using ActRIlb polypeptides and other ActRllb
   antagonists to promote bone growth and increase bone density in humans, and also to
 5 increase muscle mass. ActRlIb antagonists include, for example, ligand-binding ActRIlb
   polypeptides (e.g., ActRIIb-Fe), antibodies that bind to ActRLlb and disrupt binding of one or
   more ligands, such as activin or myostatin, non-antibody proteins selected for ActRIIb
   binding (see e.g., WO/2002/088171, WO/2006/055689, and WO/2002/032925 for examples
   of such proteins and methods for design and selection of same), randomized peptides selected
 ) for ActRIlb binding, often affixed to an Fe domain. Two different proteins (or other
   moieties) with ActRIb binding activity, especially activin binders that block the type I (e.g.,
   a soluble type I activin receptor) and type 11 (e.g., a soluble type 11 activin receptor) binding
   sites, respectively, may be linked together to create a bifunctional binding molecule. Nucleic
   acid aptamers, small molecules and other agents that inhibit the ActRIIb signaling axis are
 5 included as ActRIlb antagonists.
            The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art,
   within the context of this invention and in the specific context where each term is used.
   Certain terms are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification, to provide additional
   guidance to the practitioner in describing the compositions and methods of the invention and
 ) how to make and use them. The scope or meaning of any use of a term will be apparent from
   the specific context in which the term is used.
            "About" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for
   the quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Typically,
   exemplary degrees of error are within 20 percent (%), preferably within 10%, and more
5  preferably within 5%of a given value or range of values.
            Alternatively, and particularly in biological systems, the terms "about" and
   "approximately" may mean values that are within an order of magnitude, preferably within 5
   fold and more preferably within 2-fold of a given value. Numerical quantities given herein
   are approximate unless stated otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately"
0  can be inferred when not expressly stated.
                                                     -12-

            The methods of the invention may include steps of comparing sequences to each
   other, including wild-type sequence to one or more mutants (sequence variants). Such
   comparisons typically comprise alignments of polymer sequences, e.g., using sequence
   alignment programs and/or algorithms that are well known in the art (for example, BLAST,
 5 FASTA and MEGALIGN, to name a few). The skilled artisan can readily appreciate that, in
   such alignments, where a mutation contains a residue insertion or deletion, the sequence
   alignment will introduce a "gap" (typically represented by a dash, or "A") in the polymer
   sequence not containing the inserted or deleted residue.
            "Homologous," in all its grammatical forms and spelling variations, refers to the
 ) relationship between two proteins that possess a "common evolutionary origin," including
   proteins from superfamilies in the same species of organism, as well as homologous proteins
   from different species of organism. Such proteins (and their encoding nucleic acids) have
   sequence homology, as reflected by their sequence similarity, whether in terms of percent
   identity or by the presence of specific residues or motifs and conserved positions.
 5          The term "sequence similarity," in all its grammatical forms, refers to the degree of
   identity or correspondence between nucleic acid or amino acid sequences that may or may
   not share a common evolutionary origin.
            However, in common usage and in the instant application, the term "homologous,"
   when modified with an adverb such as "highly," may refer to sequence similarity and may or
 ) may not relate to a common evolutionary origin.
   2.       ActRIIb Polypeptides
            In certain aspects, the present invention relates to ActRIIb polypeptides. As used
   herein, the term "ActRIlb" refers to a family of activin receptor type Ilb (ActRIlb) proteins
5  from any species and variants derived from such ActRIIb proteins by mutagenesis or other
   modification. Reference to ActRIIb herein is understood to be a reference to any one of the
   currently identified forms. Members of the ActRIIb family are generally transmembrane
   proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with a cysteine-rich region, a
   transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine kinase
0  activity.
                                                     -13-

            The term "ActRIlb polypeptide" includes polypeptides comprising any naturally
   occurring polypeptide of an ActRIlb family member as well as any variants thereof
   (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful
   activity. See, for example, WO/2006/012627, which ActRIIb polypeptides are incorporated
 5 by reference herein. For example, ActRIlb polypeptides include polypeptides derived from
   the sequence of any known ActRllb having a sequence at least about 80% identical to the
   sequence of an ActRIlb polypeptide, and optionally at least 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or
   greater identity. For example, an ActRIlb polypeptide of the invention may bind to and
   inhibit the function of an ActRIlb protein. An ActRllb polypeptide may be selected for
 ) activity in promoting red blood cell formation in vivo. Examples of ActRIIb polypeptides
   include human ActRIIb precursor polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 1) and soluble human ActRIlb
   polypeptides (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20).
            The human ActRlIb precursor protein sequence is as follows:
            MTAPWVALALLWGSLWPGSGRGEAETRECIYYNANNELERT*                        SGLERC
 5          EGEQDKRLHCYASWA SSGTIELVKKGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQ
            VYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPTLLTVLAYSLLPIG
            GLSLIVLLAFWMYRHRKPPYGHVDIHEDPGPPPPSPLVGLKPLQLLEIK
            ARGRFGCVWKAQLMNDFVAVKIFPLQDKQSWQSEREIFSTPGMKHENLL
            QFIAAEKRGSNLEVELWLITAFHDKGSLTDYLKGNI ITWNELCHVAETM
 )          SRGLSYLHEDVPWCRGEGHKPSIAHRDFKSKNVLLKSDLTAVLADFGLA
            VRFEPGKPPGDTHGQVGTRRYMAPEVLEGAINFQRDAFLRIDMYAMGLV
            LWELVSRCKAADGPVDEYMLPFEEEIGQHPSLEELQEVVVHKKMRPTIK
            DHWLKHPGLAQLCVTIEECWDHDAEARLSAGCVEERVSLIRRSVNGTTS
            DCLVSLVTSVTNVDLPPKESSI (SEQ IDNO: 1)
5           The signal peptide is single underlined; the extracellular domain is in bold and the
   potential N-linked glycosylation sites are in boxes.
            The human ActRIlb soluble (extracellular), processed polypeptide sequence is as
   follows:
            GRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWANSSG
0           TIELVKKGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLP
            EAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPT            (SEQ ID NO: 2)
                                                    -14-

           In some conditions, the protein may be produced with an "SGR..." sequence at the N
   terminus. The C-terminal "tail" of the extracellular domain is underlined. The sequence
   with the "tail" deleted (a A15 sequence) is as follows:
           GRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWANSSG
 5         TIELVKKGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLP
           EA (SEQ ID NO: 3)
           In some conditions, the protein may be produced with an "SGR..." sequence at the N
   terminus. The nucleic acid sequence encoding a human ActRIlb precursor protein is as
   follows: (nucleotides 5-1543 of Genbank entry NM_001106)
 )         ATGACGGCGCCCTGGGTGGCCCTCGCCCTCCTCTGGGGATCGCTGTGGC
           CC CGT TC           TGGGGAGGCT GAGACACGGGAGT GCAT CTACTACAA
           CGCCAACTGGGAGCTGGAGCGCACCAACCAGAGCGGCCTGGAGCGCTGC
           GAAGGCGAGCAGGACAAGCGGCTGCACTGCTACGCCTCCTGGGCCAACA
           GCTOT GGCACCAT CGAGCT CGT GAAGAAGGGCT GCTGGCT AGAT GACT T
 5         CAACTGCTACGATAGGCAGGAGTGTGTGGCCACTGAGGAGAACCCCCAG
           GT GTACT TCT GCT GCT GT GAAGGCAACT T CTGCAACGAGCGCT TCACTC
           ATTTGCCAGAGGCTGGGGGCCCGGAAGTCACGTACGAGCCACCCCCGAC
           AGOCCCACCCTGCTCACGGTGCTGGCCTACTCACTGCTGCCCATCGGG
           GGCCTTTCCCTCATCGTCTCTCTGGCCTTTTGGATGTACCGGCATCGCA
 )         AGCCCCCCTACGGTCATGTGGACATCCATGAGGACCCTGGGCCTCCACC
           ACCA TCCCCTCTGGT GGGCCT GAAGCCACT GCAGCT GCT GGAGATCAAG
           GCT CGGGGGCGCT T T GGCTGT GT CT GGAAGGCCCAGCT CAT GAAT GACT
           TTGTAGCTGTCAAGATCTTCCCACTCCAGGACAAGCAGTCGTGGCAGAG
           TGAACGGGAGAT CT T CAGCACACCTGGCATGAAGCACGAGAACCT GCTA
5          CAGTTCATTGCTGCCGAGAAGCGAGGCTCCAACCTCGAAGTAGAGCTGT
           GGCT CAT CACGGCCTT CCAT GACAAGGGCT CCCTCACGGAT TACCT CAA
           GGGGAACAT CAT CACAT GGAACGAACTGTGT CAT GTAGCAGAGACGAT G
           TCACGAGGCCTCTCATACCTGCATGAGGATGTGCCCTGGTGCCGTGGCG
           AGGGCCACAAGCCGT CTAT TGCCCACAGGGACT T TAAAAGTAAGAATGT
0          ATTGCTGAAGAGCGACCTCACAGCCGTGCTGGCTGACTTTGGCTTGGCT
           GTTCGATTTGAGCCAGGGAAACCTCCAGGGGACAOCCACGGACAGGTAG
           GCACGAGACGGTACAT GGCT CCT GAGGT GCT CGAGGGAGCCAT CAACT T
           CCAGAGAGATGCCTTCCTGCGCATTGACATGTATGCCATGGGGTTGGTG
                                                   -15-

            CTGTGGGAGCTTGTGTCTCGCTGCAAGGCTGCAGACGGACCCGTGGATG
           AGTACATGCTGCCCTTTGAGGAAGAGATTGGCCAGCACCCTTCGTTGGA
            GGAGCTGCAGGAGGTGGTGGTGCACAAGAAGATGAGGCCCACCATTAAA
            GATCACTGGTTGAAACACCCGGGCCTGGCCCAGCTTTGTGTGACCATCG
 5         AGGAGTGCTGGGACCATGATGCAGAGGCTCGCTTGTCCGCGGGCTGTGT
            GGAGGAGCGGGTGTCCCTGATTCGGAGGTCGGTCAACGGCACTACCTCG
            GACTGTCTCGTTTCCCTGGTGACCTCTGTCACCAATGTGGACCTGCCCC
            CTAAAGAGTCAAGCATCTAA            (SEQ ID NO: 4)
   The nucleic acid sequence encoding a human ActRIlb soluble (extracellular) polypeptide is
 I as follows:
            TOT GGGCGTGGGGAGGCTSASAOACGSAST GCAT CT ACT ACAACGCCA
           ACTGGGAGCT GGAGCGCACCAACCAGAGCGGCCT GGAGCGCT GCGAAGG
            CGAGCAGGACAAGCGGCTGCACT GCTACGCCT CCT GGGCCAACAGCT CT
            GGCACCAT CGAGCT CG T GAAGAAGGGCT GCT GGCTAGAT GACT T CAACT
 5          GCTACGATAGGCAGGAGTGTGTGGCCACTGAGGAGAACCCCCAGGTGTA
            CT T CT GCT GCT GT GAACGCAACT T CT GCAACGAGCGCT T CACT CAT T T G
            CCAGAGGCTGGGGGCCCGGAAGTCACGTACGAGCCACCCCCGACAGCCC
            CCACC (SEQ ID NO: 5)
           In a specific embodiment, the invention relates to soluble ActRlIb polypeptides. As
 ) described herein, the term "soluble ActRIlb polypeptide" generally refers to polypeptides
   comprising an extracellular domain of an ActRIIb protein. The term "soluble ActRlIb
   polypeptide," as used herein, includes any naturally occurring extracellular domain of an
   ActRIlb protein as well as any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments and
   peptidomimetic forms). An activin-binding ActRIIb polypeptide is one that retains the ability
5  to bind to activin, including, for example, activin AA, AB, BB, or forms that include a C or E
   subunit. Optionally, an activin-binding ActRIIb polypeptide will bind to activin AA with a
   dissociation constant of 1 nM or less. The extracellular domain of an ActRIlb protein binds
   to activin and is generally soluble in physiological conditions, and thus can be termed a
   soluble, activin-binding ActR~fb polypeptide. Examples of soluble, activin-binding ActRllb
0  polypeptides include the soluble polypeptides illustrated in SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20.
   SEQ ID NO: 13 is referred to as ActRIIb(20-134)-hFc, and is described further in the
   Examples. Other examples of soluble ActRIIb polypeptides comprise a signal sequence in
   addition to the extracellular domain of an ActRIIb protein, for example, the honey bee
                                                    -16-

   mellitin leader sequence (SEQ ID NO: 14), the tissue plaminogen activator (TPA) leader
   (SEQ ID NO: 15) or the native ActRIlb leader (SEQ ID NO: 16). The ActRIIb-hFc
   polypeptide illustrated in SEQ ID NO: 17 uses a TPA leader.
           In certain embodiments, the invention relates to ActRIIb variant polypeptides (e.g.,
 5 soluble ActRIlb polypeptides). Optionally, the fragments, functional variants, and modified
   forms have similar or the same biological activities of their corresponding wild-type ActRIlb
   polypeptides. For example, an ActRIIb variant of the invention may bind to and inhibit
   function of an ActRIlb ligand (e.g., activin A, activin AB, activin B, Nodal, GDF8, GDF11
   or BMP7). Optionally, an ActRIlb polypeptide modulates growth of tissues such as bone,
 ) cartilage, muscle or fat. Examples of ActRIlb polypeptides include human ActRlIb precursor
   polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 1), and soluble human ActRIlb polypeptides (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 2,
   3, 13, 17, or 20).
            Unless otherwise stated, amino acid positions in an ActR.Ib polypeptide discussed
   herein are made with reference to the precursor ActRIlb polypeptide (i.e., SEQ ID NO: 1). It
 5 should be understood that the corresponding position in another ActRIIb polypeptide may be
   readily identified based on the information provided herein. For example, the precursor
   ActRIIb polypeptide contains a 19 amino acid leader sequence that is not contained in the
   soluble extracellular portion of ActRIlb as shown in SEQ ID NO: 2. Accordingly, a residue
   at position X in SEQ ID NO: 1 corresponds to residue X-19 in SEQ ID NO: 2. For example,
 ) residue 30 of SEQ ID NO: I corresponds to residue 11 in SEQ ID NO: 2 (see Figure 12). A
   similar correlation may be determined for other ActRILb sequences described herein.
           The disclosure identifies functionally active portions and variants of ActRIlb.
   Applicants have ascertained that an Fc fusion protein having the sequence disclosed by
   Hilden et al. (Blood. 1994 Apr 15;83(8):2163-70), which has an Alanine at the position
5  corresponding to amino acid 64 of SEQ ID NO: I (A64), has a relatively low affinity for
   activin and GDF- 11. By contrast, the same FEc fusion protein with an Arginine at position 64
   (R64) has an affinity for activin and GDF- 11 in the low nanomolar to high picomolar range.
   Therefore, a sequence with an R64 is used as the wild-type reference sequence for human
   ActRIIb in this disclosure.
0          Attisano et al. (Cell. 1992 Jan 10;68(1):97-108) showed that a deletion of the proline
   knot at the C-terminus of the extracellular domain of ActRIlb reduced the affinity of the
   receptor for activin. An ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein containing amino acids 20-119 of SEQ ID
                                                   -17-

   NO: 1, "ActRIlb(20-119)-Fc" has reduced binding to GDF- II and activin relative to an
   ActRIlb(20-134)-Fc, which includes the proline knot region and the complete juxtamembrane
   domain (see U.S. Publication No. 2009/0005308). However, an ActRIlb(20-129)-Fc protein
   retains similar but somewhat reduced activity relative to the wild type, even though the
 5 proline knot region is disrupted. Thus, ActRIlb extracellular domains that stop at amino acid
    134, 133, 132, 131, 130 and 129 are all expected to be active, but constructs stopping at 134
   or 133 may be most active. Similarly, mutations at any of residues 129-134 are not expected
   to alter ligand binding affinity by large margins. In support of this, mutations of P129 and
   P130 do not substantially decrease ligand binding. Therefore, an ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein
 ) may end as early as amino acid 109 (the final cysteine), however, forms ending at or between
   109 and 119 are expected to have reduced ligand binding. Amino acid 119 is poorly
   conserved and so is readily altered or truncated. Forms ending at 128 or later retain ligand
   binding activity. Forms ending at or between 119 and 127 will have an intermediate binding
   ability. It has been reported that an ActRIlb(25-118)-hFc is effective for inhibiting activin
 5 and other ligands and for promoting muscle mass, and accordingly, such truncated ActRllb
   hFc proteins may be used in the methods described herein (see Zhou et al., 2010, Cell
   142:531-543). Any of these forms may be desirable to use, depending on the clinical or
   experimental setting.
            At the N-terminus of ActRIIb, it is expected that a protein beginning at amino acid 29
 ) or before will retain ligand binding activity. Amino acid 29 represents the initial cysteine.
   An alanine to asparagine mutation at position 24 introduces an N-linked glycosylation
   sequence without substantially affecting ligand binding. This confirms that mutations in the
   region between the signal cleavage peptide and the cysteine cross-linked region,
   corresponding to amino acids 20-29 are well tolerated. In particular, constructs beginning at
5  position 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 will retain activity, and constructs beginning at positions 25,
   26, 27, 28 and 29 are also expected to retain activity. A construct beginning at 22, 23, 24 or
   25 will have the most activity (see U.S. Publication No. 2009/0005308).
            Taken together, an active portion of ActRIb comprises amino acids 29-109 of SEQ
   ID NO: 1, and constructs may, for example, begin at a residue corresponding to amino acids
0  20-29 and end at a position corresponding to amino acids 109-134. Other examples include
   constructs that begin at a position from 20-29 or 21-29 and end at a position from 118-134,
    118-133, 119-134, 119-133 or 129-134, 129-133. Other examples include constructs that
                                                    -18-

   begin at a position from 20-24 (or 21-24, or 22-25) and end at a position from 109-134 (or
    109-133), 118-134 (or 118-133), 119-134 (or 119-133) or 129-134 (or 129-133). Variants
   within these ranges are also contemplated, particularly those having at least 80%, 85%, 90%,
   95% or 99% identity to the corresponding portion of SEQ ID NO: 2.
 5         Extensive analysis of structure function analysis of ActRIlb is provided in U.S.
   Publication No. 2009/0005308, which analysis is incorporated by reference herein. ActRIIb
   residues likely to be in contact with ligands in the binding pocket have been defined as
   residues Y31, N33, N35, L38 through T41, E47, E50, Q53 through K55, L57, H58, Y60,
   S62, K74, W78 through N83, Y85, R87, A92, and E94 through F101 of SEQ ID NO: 1. At
 ) these positions, it is expected that conservative mutations will be tolerated, although a K74A
   mutation is well-tolerated, as are R40A, K55A, F82A and mutations at position L79. R40 is
   a K in Xenopus, indicating that basic amino acids at this position will be tolerated. Q53 is R
   in bovine ActRIfb and K in Xenopus ActRIIb, and therefore amino acids including R, K,        Q,
   N and H will be tolerated at this position. Outside of these residues, it is expected that
 5 modifications will be relatively well-tolerated, provided that such alterations do not disrupt
   the structure of the protein as a whole. It is readily apparent when a protein structure is
   disrupted because the protein will tend to express poorly or be degraded in the culture media.
   Thus, a general formula for an active ActRIlb variant protein is one that comprises amino
   acids 29-109, but optionally beginning at a position ranging from 20-24 or 22-25 and ending
 ) at a position ranging from 129-134, and comprising no more than 1, 2, 5, 10 or 15
   conservative amino acid changes in the ligand binding pocket, and zero, one or more non
   conservative alterations at positions 40, 53, 55, 74, 79 and/or 82 in the ligand binding pocket.
   Such a protein may retain greater than 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% sequence identity to the
   sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 1. Sites outside the binding pocket, at which
5  variability may be particularly well tolerated, include the amino and carboxy termini of the
   extracellular domain (as noted above), and positions 42-46 and 65-73 of SEQ ID NO: 1. An
   asparagine to alanine alteration at position 65 (N65A) actually improves ligand binding in the
   A64 background, and is thus expected to have no detrimental effect on ligand binding in the
   R64 background. This change probably eliminates glycosylation at N65 in the A64
0  background, thus demonstrating that a significant change in this region is likely to be
   tolerated. While an R64A change is poorly tolerated, R64K is well-tolerated, and thus
   another basic residue, such as H may be tolerated at position 64.
                                                     -19-

            ActRIIb is well-conserved across nearly all vertebrates, with large stretches of the
   extracellular domain conserved completely. Many of the ligands that bind to ActRlIb are also
   highly conserved. Accordingly, comparisons of ActRIlb sequences from various vertebrate
   organisms provide insights into residues that may be altered. Therefore, an active, human
 5 ActRlIb variant may include one or more amino acids at corresponding positions from the
   sequence of another vertebrate ActRIlb, or may include a residue that is similar to that in the
   human or other vertebrate sequence. The following examples illustrate this approach to
   defining an active ActRIIb variant. L46 of human ActRllb is a valine in Xenopus ActRIlb,
   and so this position may be altered, and optionally may be altered to another hydrophobic
 ) residue, such as V, I or F, or a non-polar residue such as A. E52 of human ActRIlb is a K in
   Xenopus ActRIlb, indicating that this site may be tolerant of a wide variety of changes,
   including polar residues, such as E, D, K, R, H, S, T, P, 0, Y and probably A. T93 of human
   ActRIlb is a K in Xenopus ActRIIb, indicating that a wide structural variation is tolerated at
   this position, with polar residues favored, such as S, K, R, E, D, H, G, P, G and Y. F108 of
 5 human ActRIlb is a Y in Xenopus ActRIlb, and therefore Y or other hydrophobic group, such
   as I, V or L should be tolerated. El II of human ActRIlb is K in Xenopus ActRIlb,
   indicating that charged residues will be tolerated at this position, including D, R, K and H, as
   well as  Q and N.  RI 12 of human ActRIIb is K in Xenopus ActRlIb, indicating that basic
   residues are tolerated at this position, including R and H. A at position 119 of human
 ) ActRIlb is relatively poorly conserved, and appears as P in rodent ActRIb and V in Xenopus
   ActRIlb, thus essentially any amino acid should be tolerated at this position.
            The addition of a further N-linked glycosylation site (N-X-S/T) increases the serum
   half-life of an ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein, relative to the ActRILb(R64)-Fc form (see U.S.
   Publication No. 2009/0005308). By introducing an asparagine at position 24 (A24N
5  construct), an NXT sequence is created that confers a longer half-life. Other NX(T/S)
   sequences are found at 42-44 (NQS) and 65-67 (NSS) of SEQ ID NO: 1, although the latter
   may not be efficiently glycosylated with the R at position 64. N-X-S/T sequences may be
   generally introduced at positions outside the ligand binding pocket defined in Figure 13.
   Particularly suitable sites for the introduction of non-endogenous N-X-S/T sequences include
0  amino acids 20-29, 20-24, 22-25, 109-134, 120-134 or 129-134 of SEQ ID NO: 1. N-X-S/T
   sequences may also be introduced into the linker between the ActRIIb sequence and the Fc or
   other fusion component. Such a site may be introduced with minimal effort by introducing
   an N in the correct position with respect to a pre-existing S or T, or by introducing an S or T
                                                     -20-

   at a position corresponding to a pre-existing N. Thus, desirable alterations that would create
   an N-linked glycosylation site are: A24N, R64N, S67N (possibly combined with an N65A
   alteration), E106N, R1l2N, G120N, E123N, P129N, A132N, RI12S and R112T. AnySthat
   is predicted to be glycosylated may be altered to a T without creating an immunogenic site,
 5 because of the protection afforded by the glycosylation. Likewise, any T that is predicted to
   be glycosylated may be altered to an S. Thus the alterations S67T and S44T are
   contemplated. Likewise, in an A24N variant, an S26T alteration may be used. Accordingly,
   an ActRIIb variant may include one or more additional, non-endogenous N-linked
   glycosylation consensus sequences.
 )          Position L79 may be altered to confer altered activin - myostatin (GDF-1 1) binding
   properties. L79A or L79P reduces GDF- II binding to a greater extent than activin binding.
   L79E or L79D retains GDF- 11 binding. Remarkably, the L79E and L79D variants have
   greatly reduced activin binding. In vivo experiments indicate that these non-activin receptors
   retain significant ability to increase muscle mass but show decreased effects on other tissues.
 5 These data demonstrate the desirability and feasibility for obtaining polypeptides with
   reduced effects on activin.
            The variations described may be combined in various ways. Additionally, the results
   of mutagenesis program described herein indicate that there are amino acid positions in
   ActRIIb that are often beneficial to conserve. These include position 64 (basic amino acid),
 ) position 80 (acidic or hydrophobic amino acid), position 78 (hydrophobic, and particularly
   tryptophan), position 37 (acidic, and particularly aspartic or glutamic acid), position 56 (basic
   amino acid), position 60 (hydrophobic amino acid, particularly phenylalanine or tyrosine).
   Thus, in each of the variants disclosed herein, the disclosure provides a framework of amino
   acids that may be conserved. Other positions that may be desirable to conserve are as
5  follows: position 52 (acidic amino acid), position 55 (basic amino acid), position 81 (acidic),
   98 (polar or charged, particularly E, D, R or K).
            In certain embodiments, isolated fragments of the ActRllb polypeptides can be
   obtained by screening polypeptides recombinantly produced from the corresponding
   fragment of the nucleic acid encoding an ActRIIb polypeptide (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 4 and 5).
0  In addition, fragments can be chemically synthesized using techniques known in the art such
   as conventional Merrifield solid phase f-Moc or t-Boc chemistry. The fragments can be
   produced (recombinantly or by chemical synthesis) and tested to identify those peptidyl
                                                   -21-

   fragments that can function, for example, as antagonists (inhibitors) or agonists (activators) of
   an ActRIIb protein or an ActRIIb ligand.
            In certain embodiments, a functional variant of the ActRlIb polypeptides has an
   amino acid sequence that is at least 75% identical to an amino acid sequence selected from
 5 SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20. In certain cases, the functional variant has an amino acid
   sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to an amino acid
   sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates making functional
   variants by modifying the structure of an ActRl1b polypeptide for such purposes as enhancing
 ) therapeutic efficacy, or stability (e.g., ex vivo shelf life and resistance to proteolytic
   degradation in vivo). Modified ActRIIb polypeptides can also be produced, for instance, by
   amino acid substitution, deletion, or addition. For instance, it is reasonable to expect that an
   isolated replacement of a leucine with an isoleucine or valine, an aspartate with a glutamate, a
   threonine with a serine, or a similar replacement of an amino acid with a structurally related
 5 amino acid (e.g., conservative mutations) will not have a major effect on the biological
   activity of the resulting molecule. Conservative replacements are those that take place within
   a family of amino acids that are related in their side chains. Whether a change in the amino
   acid sequence of an ActRIlb polypeptide results in a functional homolog can be readily
   determined by assessing the ability of the variant ActRIIb polypeptide to produce a response
 ) in cells in a fashion similar to the wild-type ActRIIb polypeptide, or to bind to one or more
   ligands, such as activin, GDF-1 I or myostatin in a fashion similar to wild type.
           In certain specific embodiments, the present invention contemplates making
   mutations in the extracellular domain (also referred to as ligand-binding domain) of an
   ActRIb polypeptide such that the variant (or mutant) ActRIIb polypeptide has altered ligand
5  binding activities (e.g., binding affinity or binding specificity). In certain cases, such variant
   ActRIlb polypeptides have altered (elevated or reduced) binding affinity for a specific ligand.
   In other cases, the variant ActRIlb polypeptides have altered binding specificity for their
   ligands.
           For example, the disclosure provides variant ActRIlb polypeptides that preferentially
0  bind to GDF8/GDF 11 relative to activins. The disclosure further establishes the desirability
   of such polypeptides for reducing off-target effects, although such selective variants may be
   less desirable for the treatment of severe diseases where very large gains in muscle mass may
                                                      -22-

   be needed for therapeutic effect and where some level of off-target effect is acceptable. For
   example, amino acid residues of the ActRIIb protein, such as E39, K55, Y60, K74, W78,
   D80, and F101, are in the ligand-binding pocket and mediate binding to its ligands such as
   activin and GDF8. Thus, the present invention provides an altered ligand-binding domain
 5 (e.g., GDF8-binding domain) of an ActRIIb receptor, which comprises one or more mutations
   at those amino acid residues. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain can have
   increased selectivity for a ligand such as GDF8 relative to a wild-type ligand-binding domain
   of an ActRIIb receptor. To illustrate, these mutations increase the selectivity of the altered
   ligand-binding domain for GDF8 over activin. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain
 ) has a ratio of K for activin binding to Kj for GDF8 binding that is at least 2, 5, 10, or even
   100 fold greater relative to the ratio for the wild-type ligand-binding domain. Optionally, the
   altered ligand-binding domain has a ratio of IC5 0 for inhibiting activin to IC50 for inhibiting
   GDF8 that is at least 2,5, 10, or even 100 fold greater relative to the wild-type ligand-binding
   domain. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain inhibits GDF8 with an IC50 at least 2,
 5 5, 10, or even 100 times less than the IC50 for inhibiting activin.
           As a specific example, the positively-charged amino acid residue Asp (D80) of the
   ligand-binding domain of ActRIlb can be mutated to a different amino acid residue such that
   the variant ActRllb polypeptide preferentially binds to GDF8, but not activin. Preferably, the
   D80 residue is changed to an amino acid residue selected from the group consisting of: an
 ) uncharged amino acid residue, a negative amino acid residue, and a hydrophobic amino acid
   residue. As a further specific example, the hydrophobic residue, L79, can be altered to the
   acidic amino acids aspartic acid or glutamic acid to greatly reduce activin binding while
   retaining GDF 11 binding. As will be recognized by one of skill in the art, most of the
   described mutations, variants or modifications may be made at the nucleic acid level or, in
5  some cases, by post translational modification or chemical synthesis. Such techniques are
   well known in the art.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates specific mutations of the
   ActRIb polypeptides so as to alter the glycosylation of the polypeptide. Exemplary
   glycosylation sites in ActRIIb polypeptides are shown in SEQ ID NO: 1. Such mutations
0  may be selected so as to introduce or eliminate one or more glycosylation sites, such as 0
   linked or N-linked glycosylation sites. Asparagine-linked glycosylation recognition sites
   generally comprise a tripeptide sequence, asparagine-X-threonine (where "X" is any amino
                                                     -23-

   acid) which is specifically recognized by appropriate cellular glycosylation enzymes. The
   alteration may also be made by the addition of, or substitution by, one or more serine or
   threonine residues to the sequence of the wild-type ActRIlb polypeptide (for 0-linked
   glycosylation sites). A variety of amino acid substitutions or deletions at one or both of the
 5 first or third amino acid positions of a glycosylation recognition site (and/or amino acid
   deletion at the second position) results in non-glycosylation at the modified tripeptide
   sequence. Another means of increasing the number of carbohydrate moieties on an ActRllb
   polypeptide is by chemical or enzymatic coupling of glycosides to the ActRIlb polypeptide.
   Depending on the coupling mode used, the sugar(s) may be attached to (a) arginine and
 ) histidine; (b) free carboxyl groups; (c) free sulfhydryl groups such as those of cysteine; (d)
   free hydroxyl groups such as those of shrine, threonine, or hydroxyproline; (e) aromatic
   residues such as those of phenylalanine, tyrosine, or tryptophan; or (f) the amide group of
   glutamine. These methods are described in WO 87/05330 published Sep. I1, 1987, and in
   Aplin and Wriston (1981) CRC Crit. Rev. Biochem., pp. 259-306, incorporated by reference
 5 herein. Removal of one or more carbohydrate moieties present on an ActRllb polypeptide
   may be accomplished chemically and/or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation may
   involve, for example, exposure of the ActRIlb polypeptide to the compound
   trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, or an equivalent compound. This treatment results in the
   cleavage of most or all sugars except the linking sugar (N-acetylglucosamine or N
 ) acetylgalactosamine), while leaving the amino acid sequence intact. Chemical
   deglycosylation is further described by Hakimuddin et al. (1987) Arch. Biochem. Biophys.
   259:52 and by Edge et al. (1981) Anal. Biochem. 118:131. Enzymatic cleavage of
   carbohydrate moieties on ActR~lb polypeptides can be achieved by the use of a variety of
   endo- and exo-glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al. (1987) Meth. Enzymol. 138:350.
5  The sequence of an ActRllb polypeptide may be adjusted, as appropriate, depending on the
   type of expression system used, as mammalian, yeast, insect and plant cells may all introduce
   differing glycosylation patterns that can be affected by the amino acid sequence of the
   peptide. In general, ActRIlb proteins for use in humans will be expressed in a mammalian
   cell line that provides proper glycosylation, such as HEK293 or CHO cell lines, although
0  other mammalian expression cell lines are expected to be useful as well.
            This disclosure further contemplates a method of generating variants, particularly sets
   of combinatorial variants of an ActRlIb polypeptide, including, optionally, truncation
   variants; pools of combinatorial mutants are especially useful for identifying functional
                                                     -24-

   variant sequences. The purpose of screening such combinatorial libraries may be to generate,
   for example, ActRIlb polypeptide variants which have altered properties, such as altered
   pharmacokinetics, or altered ligand binding. A variety of screening assays are provided
   below, and such assays may be used to evaluate variants. For example, an ActRIIb
 5 polypeptide variant may be screened for ability to bind to an ActRllb polypeptide, to prevent
   binding of an ActRIlb ligand to an ActRllb polypeptide.
            The activity of an ActRIIb polypeptide or its variants may also be tested in a cell
   based or in vivo assay. For example, the effect of an ActRlIb polypeptide variant on the
   expression of genes involved in bone production in an osteoblast or precursor may be
 ) assessed. This may, as needed, be performed in the presence of one or more recombinant
   ActRIlb ligand protein (e.g., BMP7), and cells may be transfected so as to produce an
   ActRIIb polypeptide and/or variants thereof, and optionally, an ActRIlb ligand. Likewise, an
   ActRIIb polypeptide may be administered to a mouse or other animal, and one or more bone
   properties, such as density or volume may be assessed. The healing rate for bone fractures
 5 may also be evaluated. Similarly, the activity of an ActRIIb polypeptide or its variants may
   be tested in muscle cells, adipocytes, and neuronal cells for any effect on growth of these
   cells, for example, by the assays as described below. Such assays are well known and routine
   in the art. A SMAD-responsive reporter gene may be used in such cell lines to monitor
   effects on downstream signaling.
 )          Combinatorially-derived variants can be generated which have a selective potency
   relative to a naturally occurring ActRIlb polypeptide. Such variant proteins, when expressed
   from recombinant DNA constructs, can be used in gene therapy protocols. Likewise,
   mutagenesis can give rise to variants which have intracellular half-lives dramatically different
   than the corresponding a wild-type ActRlIb polypeptide. For example, the altered protein
5  can be rendered either more stable or less stable to proteolytic degradation or other processes
   which result in destruction of, or otherwise inactivation of a native ActRIIb polypeptide.
   Such variants, and the genes which encode them, can be utilized to alter ActRIIb polypeptide
   levels by modulating the half-life of the ActRIlb polypeptides. For instance, a short half-life
   can give rise to more transient biological effects and, when part of an inducible expression
0  system, can allow tighter control of recombinant ActRIlb polypeptide levels within the cell.
            In certain embodiments, the ActRIIb polypeptides of the invention may further
   comprise post-translational modifications in addition to any that are naturally present in the
                                                    -25-

   ActRIIb polypeptides. Such modifications include, but are not limited to, acetylation,
   carboxylation, glycosylation, phosphorylation, lipidation, and acylation. As a result, the
   modified ActRIIb polypeptides may contain non-amino acid elements, such as polyethylene
   glycols, lipids, poly- or mono-saccharide, and phosphates. Effects of such non-amino acid
 5 elements on the functionality of a ActRIlb polypeptide may be tested as described herein for
   other ActRIIb polypeptide variants. When an ActRIlb polypeptide is produced in cells by
   cleaving a nascent form of the ActRIlb polypeptide, post-translational processing may also be
   important for correct folding and/or function of the protein. Different cells (such as CHO,
   HeLa, MDCK, 293, W138, NIH-3T3 or HEK293) have specific cellular machinery and
 ) characteristic mechanisms for such post-translational activities and may be chosen to ensure
   the correct modification and processing of the ActRIIb polypeptides.
             In certain aspects, functional variants or modified forms of the ActRlIb polypeptides
   include fusion proteins having at least a portion of the ActRIIb polypeptides and one or more
   fusion domains. Well known examples of such fusion domains include, but are not limited
 5 to, polyhistidine, Glu-Glu, glutathione S transferase (GST), thioredoxin, protein A, protein G,
   an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region (e.g., an Fc), maltose binding protein
   (MBP), or human serum albumin. A fusion domain may be selected so as to confer a desired
   property. For example, some fusion domains are particularly useful for isolation of the fusion
   proteins by affinity chromatography. For the purpose of affinity purification, relevant
 ) matrices for affinity chromatography, such as glutathione-, amylase-, and nickel- or cobalt
   conjugated resins are used. Many of such matrices are available in "kit" form, such as the
   Pharmacia GST purification system and the QlAexpressTM system (Qiagen) useful with
   (HIS 6 ) fusion partners. As another example, a fusion domain may be selected so as to
   facilitate detection of the ActRIIb polypeptides. Examples of such detection domains include
5  the various fluorescent proteins (e.g., GFP) as well as "epitope tags," which are usually short
   peptide sequences for which a specific antibody is available. Well known epitope tags for
   which specific monoclonal antibodies are readily available include FLAG, influenza virus
   haemagglutinin (HA), and c-myc tags. In some cases, the fusion domains have a protease
   cleavage site, such as for Factor Xa or Thrombin, which allows the relevant protease to
0  partially digest the fusion proteins and thereby liberate the recombinant proteins therefrom.
   The liberated proteins can then be isolated from the fusion domain by subsequent
   chromatographic separation. In certain preferred embodiments, an ActRIIb polypeptide is
   fused with a domain that stabilizes the ActRIIb polypeptide in vivo (a "stabilizer" domain).
                                                      -26-

   By "stabilizing" is meant anything that increases serum half life, regardless of whether this is
   because of decreased destruction, decreased clearance by the kidney, or other
   pharmacokinetic effect. Fusions with the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin are known to
   confer desirable pharmacokinetic properties on a wide range of proteins. Likewise, fusions to
 5 human serum albumin can confer desirable properties. Other types of fusion domains that
   may be selected include multimerizing (e.g., dimerizing, tetramerizing) domains and
   functional domains (that confer an additional biological function, such as further stimulation
   of muscle growth).
           As a specific example, the present invention provides a fusion protein as a GDF8
 ) antagonist which comprises an extracellular (e.g., GDF8-binding) domain fused to an Fc
   domain (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 6).
   THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVD(A)VSHEDPEVKFNWYVDG
   VEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCK(A)VSNKALPVPIEKTISKAK
   GQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDG
 5 PFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHN(A)HYTQKSLSLSPGK
           Preferably, the Fe domain has one or more mutations at residues such as Asp-265,
   lysine 322, and Asn-434. In certain cases, the mutant Fc domain having one or more of these
   mutations (e.g., Asp-265 mutation) has reduced ability of binding to the Fey receptor relative
   to a wildtype Fc domain. In other cases, the mutant Fc domain having one or more of these
 ) mutations (e.g., Asn-434 mutation) has increased ability of binding to the MHC class I
   related Fc-receptor (FcRN) relative to a wildtype Fc domain.
           It is understood that different elements of the fusion proteins may be arranged in any
   manner that is consistent with the desired functionality. For example, an ActRlfb
   polypeptide may be placed C-terminal to a beterologous domain, or, alternatively, a
5  heterologous domain may be placed C-terminal to an ActRIlb polypeptide. The ActRIIb
   polypeptide domain and the heterologous domain need not be adjacent in a fusion protein,
   and additional domains or amino acid sequences may be included C- or N-terminal to either
   domain or between the domains.
           In certain embodiments, the ActRIIb polypeptides of the present invention contain
0  one or more modifications that are capable of stabilizing the ActRIlb polypeptides. For
   example, such modifications enhance the in vitro half life of the ActRIIb polypeptides,
   enhance circulatory half life of the ActRIIb polypeptides or reducing proteolytic degradation
                                                    -27-

   of the ActRIIb polypeptides. Such stabilizing modifications include, but are not limited to,
   fusion proteins (including, for example, fusion proteins comprising an ActRIlb polypeptide
   and a stabilizer domain), modifications of a glycosylation site (including, for example,
   addition of a glycosylation site to an ActRIIb polypeptide), and modifications of
 5 carbohydrate moiety (including, for example, removal of carbohydrate moieties from an
   ActRIlb polypeptide). In the case of fusion proteins, an ActRIIb polypeptide is fused to a
   stabilizer domain such as an IgG molecule (e.g., an Fc domain). As used herein, the term
   "stabilizer domain" not only refers to a fusion domain (e.g., Fc) as in the case of fusion
   proteins, but also includes nonproteinaceous modifications such as a carbohydrate moiety, or
 ) nonproteinaceous polymer, such as polyethylene glycol.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention makes available isolated and/or purified
   forms of the ActRIIb polypeptides, which are isolated from, or otherwise substantially free
   of, other proteins. ActRIIb polypeptides will generally be produced by expression from
   recombinant nucleic acids.
 5          In certain embodiments, ActRIIb polypeptides (unmodified or modified) of the
   invention can be produced by a variety of art-known techniques. For example, such ActRIlIb
   polypeptides can be synthesized using standard protein chemistry techniques such as those
   described in Bodansky, M. Principles of Peptide Synthesis, Springer Verlag, Berlin (1993)
   and Grant G. A. (ed.), Synthetic Peptides: A User's Guide, W. H. Freeman and Company,
 ) New York (1992). In addition, automated peptide synthesizers are commercially available
   (e.g., Advanced ChemTech Model 396; Milligen/Biosearch 9600). Alternatively, the
   ActRIIb polypeptides, fragments or variants thereof may be recombinantly produced using
   various expression systems (e.g., E. coli, Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, COS cells,
   baculovirus) as is well known in the art (also see below). In a further embodiment, the
5  modified or unmodified ActRIIb polypeptides may be produced by digestion of naturally
   occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIfb polypeptides by using, for example,
   a protease, e.g., trypsin, thermolysin, chymotrypsin, pepsin, or paired basic amino acid
   converting enzyme (PACE). Computer analysis (using a commercially available software,
   e.g., MacVector, Omega, PCGene, Molecular Simulation, Inc.) can be used to identify
0  proteolytic cleavage sites. Alternatively, such ActRIfb polypeptides may be produced from
   naturally occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIIb polypeptides such as
                                                   -28-

   standard techniques known in the art, such as by chemical cleavage (e.g., cyanogen bromide,
   hydroxylamine).
   3.      Nucleic Acids Encoding ActRIIb Polypetides
 5         In certain aspects, the invention provides isolated and/or recombinant nucleic acids
   encoding any of the ActRIIb polypeptides (e.g., full-length and soluble ActRIIb
   polypeptides), including fragments, functional variants and fusion proteins disclosed herein.
   For example, SEQ ID NO: 4 encodes the naturally occurring human ActRIIb precursor
   polypeptide, while SEQ ID NO: 5 encodes the processed extracellular domain of ActRIlb.
 I The subject nucleic acids may be single-stranded or double stranded. Such nucleic acids may
   be DNA or RNA molecules. These nucleic acids may be used, for example, in methods for
   making ActRIIb polypeptides or as direct therapeutic agents (e.g., in a gene therapy
   approach).
            In certain aspects, the subject nucleic acids encoding ActRilb polypeptides are further
 5 understood to include nucleic acids that are variants of SEQ ID NO: 4 or 5. Variant
   nucleotide sequences include sequences that differ by one or more nucleotide substitutions,
   additions or deletions, such as allelic variants.
            In certain embodiments, the invention provides isolated or recombinant nucleic acid
   sequences that are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ
 ) ID NOs: 4, 5, or 18. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that nucleic acid
   sequences complementary to SEQ ID NOs: 4, 5, or 18 and variants of SEQ ID NOs: 4, 5, or
   18 are also within the scope of this invention. In further embodiments, the nucleic acid
   sequences of the invention can be isolated, recombinant, and/or fused with a heterologous
   nucleotide sequence, or in a DNA library.
5          In other embodiments, nucleic acids of the invention also include nucleotide
   sequences, and the ActRIIb polypeptides encoded by such nucleic acids that hybridize under
   highly stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence designated in SEQ ID NOs: 4, 5, or 18,
   the complement sequence of SEQ ID NOs: 4, 5, or 18, or fragments of any of the foregoing.
   As discussed above, one of ordinary skill in the art will understand readily that appropriate
0  stringency conditions which promote DNA hybridization can be varied. One of ordinary skill
   in the art will understand readily that appropriate stringency conditions which promote DNA
                                                     -29-

   hybridization can be varied. For example, one could perform the hybridization at 6.0 x
   sodium chloride/sodium citrate (SSC) at about 45 *C, followed by a wash of 2.0 x SSC at 50
   OC. For example, the salt concentration in the wash step can be selected from a low
   stringency of about 2.0 x SSC at 50 'C to a high stringency of about 0.2 x SSC at 50 'C. In
 5 addition, the temperature in the wash step can be increased from low stringency conditions at
   room temperature, about 22 'C, to high stringency conditions at about 65 *C. Both
   temperature and salt may be varied, or temperature or salt concentration may be held constant
   while the other variable is changed. In one embodiment, the invention provides nucleic acids
   which hybridize under low stringency conditions of 6 x SSC at room temperature followed by
 ) a wash at 2 x SSC at mom temperature.
           Isolated nucleic acids which differ from the nucleic acids as set forth in SEQ ID NOs:
   4, 5, or 18 due to degeneracy in the genetic code are also within the scope of the invention.
   For example, a number of amino acids are designated by more than one triplet. Codons that
   specify the same amino acid, or synonyms (for example, CAU and CAC are synonyms for
 5 histidine) may result in "silent" mutations which do not affect the amino acid sequence of the
   protein. However, it is expected that DNA sequence polymorphisms that do lead to changes
   in the amino acid sequences of the subject proteins will exist among mammalian cells. One
   skilled in the art will appreciate that these variations in one or more nucleotides (up to about
   3-5% of the nucleotides) of the nucleic acids encoding a particular protein may exist among
 ) individuals of a given species due to natural allelic variation. Any and all such nucleotide
   variations and resulting amino acid polymorphisms are within the scope of this invention.
           In certain embodiments, the recombinant nucleic acids of the invention may be
   operably linked to one or more regulatory nucleotide sequences in an expression construct.
   Regulatory nucleotide sequences will generally be appropriate to the host cell used for
5  expression. Numerous types of appropriate expression vectors and suitable regulatory
   sequences are known in the art for a variety of host cells. Typically, said one or more
   regulatory nucleotide sequences may include, but are not limited to, promoter sequences,
   leader or signal sequences, ribosomal binding sites, transcriptional start and termination
   sequences, translational start and termination sequences, and enhancer or activator sequences.
0  Constitutive or inducible promoters as known in the art are contemplated by the invention.
   The promoters may be either naturally occurring promoters, or hybrid promoters that
   combine elements of more than one promoter. An expression construct may be present in a
                                                      -30-

   cell on an episome, such as a plasmid, or the expression construct may be inserted in a
   chromosome. In a preferred embodiment, the expression vector contains a selectable marker
   gene to allow the selection of transformed host cells. Selectable marker genes are well
   known in the art and will vary with the host cell used.
 5         In certain aspects of the invention, the subject nucleic acid is provided in an
   expression vector comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an ActRIIb polypeptide and
   operably linked to at least one regulatory sequence. Regulatory sequences are art-recognized
   and are selected to direct expression of the ActRIIb polypeptide. Accordingly, the term
   regulatory sequence includes promoters, enhancers, and other expression control elements.
 ) Exemplary regulatory sequences are described in Goeddel; Gene Expression Technology:
   Methods in Enzymology, Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). For instance, any of a wide
   variety of expression control sequences that control the expression of a DNA sequence when
   operatively linked to it may be used in these vectors to express DNA sequences encoding an
   ActRIb polypeptide. Such useful expression control sequences, include, for example, the
 5 early and late promoters of SV40, tet promoter, adenovirus or cytomegalovirus immediate
   early promoter, RSV promoters, the lac system, the trp system, the TAC or TRC system, T7
   promoter whose expression is directed by T7 RNA polymerase, the major operator and
   promoter regions of phage lambda , the control regions for fd coat protein, the promoter for
   3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes, the promoters of acid phosphatase,
 ) e.g., Pho5, the promoters of the yeast a-mating factors, the polyhedron promoter of the
   baculovirus system and other sequences known to control the expression of genes of
   prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses, and various combinations thereof It should
   be understood that the design of the expression vector may depend on such factors as the
   choice of the host cell to be transformed and/or the type of protein desired to be expressed.
5  Moreover, the vector's copy number, the ability to control that copy number and the
   expression of any other protein encoded by the vector, such as antibiotic markers, should also
   be considered.
           A recombinant nucleic acid of the invention can be produced by ligating the cloned
   gene, or a portion thereof, into a vector suitable for expression in either prokaryotic cells,
0  eukaryotic cells (yeast, avian, insect or mammalian), or both. Expression vehicles for
   production of a recombinant ActRllb polypeptide include plasmids and other vectors. For
   instance, suitable vectors include plasmids of the types: pBR322-derived plasmids, pEMBL
                                                    -31-

   derived plasmids, pEX-derived plasmids, pBTac-derived plasmids and pUC-derived plasmids
   for expression in prokaryotic cells, such as E. coli.
            Some mammalian expression vectors contain both prokaryotic sequences to facilitate
   the propagation of the vector in bacteria, and one or more eukaryotic transcription units that
 5 are expressed in eukaryotic cells. The pcDNAI/amp, pcDNAI/neo, pRc/CMV, pSV2gpt,
   pSV2neo, pSV2-dhfr, pTk2, pRSVneo, pMSG, pSVT7, pko-neo and pHyg derived vectors
   are examples of mammalian expression vectors suitable for transfection of eukaryotic cells.
   Some of these vectors are modified with sequences from bacterial plasmids, such as pBR322,
   to facilitate replication and drug resistance selection in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
 ) Alternatively, derivatives of viruses such as the bovine papilloma virus (BPV- 1), or Epstein
   Barr virus (pHEBo, pREP-derived and p205) can be used for transient expression of proteins
   in eukaryotic cells. Examples of other viral (including retroviral) expression systems can be
   found below in the description of gene therapy delivery systems. The various methods
   employed in the preparation of the plasmids and in transformation of host organisms are well
 5 known in the art. For other suitable expression systems for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic
   cells, as well as general recombinant procedures, see Molecular Cloning A Laboratory
   Manual, 3rd Ed., ed. by Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
   Press, 2001). In some instances, it may be desirable to express the recombinant polypeptides
   by the use of a baculovirus expression system. Examples of such baculovirus expression
 ) systems include pVL-derived vectors (such as pVL1392, pVL1393 and pVL941), pAcUW
   derived vectors (such as pAcUWl), and pBlueBac-derived vectors (such as the B-gal
   containing pBlueBac III).
            In a preferred embodiment, a vector will be designed for production of the subject
   ActRIIb polypeptides in CHO cells, such as a Pcmv-Script vector (Stratagene, La Jolla,
5  Calif.), pcDNA4 vectors (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) and pCI-neo vectors (Promega,
   Madison, Wisc.). As will be apparent, the subject gene constructs can be used to cause
   expression of the subject ActRIIb polypeptides in cells propagated in culture, e.g., to produce
   proteins, including fusion proteins or variant proteins, for purification.
            This disclosure also pertains to a host cell transfected with a recombinant gene
0  including a coding sequence (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 4, 5, or 18) for one or more of the subject
   ActRIIb polypeptides. The host cell may be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. For example,
   an ActRI~b polypeptide of the invention may be expressed in bacterial cells such as E. coli,
                                                     -32-

   insect cells (e.g., using a baculovirus expression system), yeast, or mammalian cells. Other
   suitable host cells are known to those skilled in the art.
           Accordingly, the present invention further pertains to methods of producing the
   subject ActRIlb polypeptides. For example, a host cell transfected with an expression vector
 5 encoding an ActRIIb polypeptide can be cultured under appropriate conditions to allow
   expression of the ActRIIb polypeptide to occur. The ActRIIb polypeptide may be secreted
   and isolated from a mixture of cells and medium containing the ActRIIb polypeptide.
   Alternatively, the ActRIIb polypeptide may be retained cytoplasmically or in a membrane
   fraction and the cells harvested, lysed and the protein isolated. A cell culture includes host
 ) cells, media and other byproducts. Suitable media for cell culture are well known in the art.
   The subject ActRIlb polypeptides can be isolated from cell culture medium, host cells, or
   both, using techniques known in the art for purifying proteins, including ion-exchange
   chromatography, gel filtration chromatography, ultrafiltration, electrophoresis,
   immunoaffinity purification with antibodies specific for particular epitopes of the ActRIlb
 5 polypeptides and affinity purification with an agent that binds to a domain fused to the
   ActRIlb polypeptide (e.g., a protein A column may be used to purify an ActRIlb-Fc fusion).
   In a preferred embodiment, the ActRIlb polypeptide is a fusion protein containing a domain
   which facilitates its purification. In a preferred embodiment, purification is achieved by a
   series of column chromatography steps, including, for example, three or more of the
 ) following, in any order: protein A chromatography,     Q sepharose  chromatography,
   phenylsepharose chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, and cation exchange
   chromatography. The purification could be completed with viral filtration and buffer
   exchange. Optionally, a purification scheme involves the following: a MabSelect t       protein
   A column (GE Healthcare) with protein in a Tris-buffered saline solution (pH 8.0) (TBS),
5  washed in TBS (150 mM NaCl, pH 8.0) and TBS (50 mM NaCl, pH 8.0), eluted in 0.1 mM
   glycine at pH 3.0; the eluate may be passed over a Q sepharose column in TBS pH 8.0 and
   eluted in TBS containing anywhere from 200-250, 210-250, 220-250, 210-230, 215-225 or
   225-235 mM NaCl; the eluate may be changed into 1.1 M NH 4SO 4 , 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 and
   washed in the same buffer, and eluted in phosphate buffered saline at pH 7.2 or 7.4 at
0  anywhere fom 200-250, 210-250, 220-250, 210-230, 215-225 or 225-235 mM NH 4SO4 . The
   eluted material may be dialyzed, subjected to viral filtration and used for final formulation.
                                                     -33-

           In another embodiment, a fusion gene coding for a purification leader sequence, such
   as a poly-(His)/enterokinase cleavage site sequence at the N-terminus of the desired portion
   of the recombinant ActRIIb polypeptide, can allow purification of the expressed fusion
   protein by affinity chromatography using a Ni      metal resin. The purification leader
 5 sequence can then be subsequently removed by treatment with enterokinase to provide the
   purified ActRIIb polypeptide (e.g., see Hochuli et al., (1987) J. Chromatography411:177;
   and Janknecht et al., PNAS USA 88:8972).
           Techniques for making fusion genes are well known. Essentially, the joining of
   various DNA fragments coding for different polypeptide sequences is performed in
 ) accordance with conventional techniques, employing blunt-ended or stagger-ended termini
   for ligation, restriction enzyme digestion to provide for appropriate termini, filling-in of
   cohesive ends as appropriate, alkaline phosphatase treatment to avoid undesirable joining,
   and enzymatic ligation. In another embodiment, the fusion gene can be synthesized by
   conventional techniques including automated DNA synthesizers. Alternatively, PCR
 5 amplification of gene fragments can be carried out using anchor primers which give rise to
   complementary overhangs between two consecutive gene fragments which can subsequently
   be annealed to generate a chimeric gene sequence (see, for example, CurrentProtocolsin
   Molecular Biology, eds. Ausubel et al., John Wiley & Sons: 1992).
 ) 4.      Alternative Activin ActRIIb Antagonists
           Although soluble ActRIIb polypeptides, and particularly ActRIIb-Fc fusions, are
   preferred antagonists, other types of ActRIlb antagonists are expected to be useful, including
   anti-ActRlfb antibodies, antisense, RNAi or ribozyme nucleic acids that inhibit the
   production of ActRIlb, and other inhibitors of ActRIlb, particularly those that disrupt
5  ActRIIb binding.
           An antibody that is specifically reactive with an ActRlIb polypeptide (e.g., a soluble
   ActR]lbpolypeptide) and which either binds competitively to ligand with the ActRIIb
   polypeptide or otherwise inhibits ActRIIb -mediated signaling may be used as an antagonist
   of ActRIlb polypeptide activities.
0           By using immunogens derived from an ActRJIb polypeptide, anti-protein/anti-peptide
   antisera or monoclonal antibodies can be made by standard protocols (see, for example,
                                                    -34-

   Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual ed. by Harlow and Lane (Cold Spring Harbor Press:
    1988)). A mammal, such as a mouse, a hamster or rabbit can be immunized with an
   immunogenic form of the ActRIb polypeptide, an antigenic fragment which is capable of
   eliciting an antibody response, or a fusion protein. Techniques for conferring
 5 immunogenicity on a protein or peptide include conjugation to carriers or other techniques
   well known in the art. An immunogenic portion of an ActRIIb polypeptide can be
   administered in the presence of adjuvant. The progress of immunization can be monitored by
   detection of antibody titers in plasma or serum. Standard ELISA or other immunoassays can
   be used with the immunogen as antigen to assess the levels of antibodies.
 )          Following immunization of an animal with an antigenic preparation of an ActRIIb
   polypeptide, antisera can be obtained and, if desired, polyclonal antibodies can be isolated
   from the serum. To produce monoclonal antibodies, antibody-producing cells (lymphocytes)
   can be harvested from an immunized animal and fused by standard somatic cell fusion
   procedures with immortalizing cells such as mycloma cells to yield hybridoma cells. Such
 5 techniques are well known in the art, and include, for example, the hybridoma technique
   (originally developed by Kohler and Milstein, (1975) Nature, 256: 495-497), the human B
   cell hybridoma technique (Kozbar et al., (1983) Immunology Today, 4: 72), and the EBV
   hybridona technique to produce human monoclonal antibodies (Cole et al., (1985)
   Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy, Alan R. Liss, Inc. pp. 77-96). Hybridomia cells
 ) can be screened immunochemically for production of antibodies specifically reactive with an
   ActRIIb polypeptide and monoclonal antibodies isolated from a culture comprising such
   hybridoma cells.
            The term "antibody" as used herein is intended to include whole antibodies, e.g., of
   any isotype (IgG, IgA, IgM, IgE, etc.), and includes fragments or domains of
5  immunoglobulins which are reactive with a selected antigen. Antibodies can be fragmented
   using conventional techniques and the fragments screened for utility and/or interaction with a
   specific epitope of interest. Thus, the term includes segments of proteolytically-cleaved or
   recombinantly-prepared portions of an antibody molecule that are capable of selectively
   reacting with a certain protein. Non-limiting examples of such proteolytic and/or recombinant
0  fragments include Fab, F(ab')2, Fab', Fv, and single chain antibodies (scFv) containing a V[L]
   and/or V[H] domain joined by a peptide linker. The scFv's may be covalently or non
   covalently linked to form antibodies having two or more binding sites. The term antibody
                                                    -35-

   also includes polyclonal, monoclonal, or other purified preparations of antibodies and
   recombinant antibodies. The term "recombinant antibody", means an antibody, or antigen
   binding domain of an immunoglobulin, expressed from a nucleic acid that has been
   constructed using the techniques of molecular biology, such as a humanized antibody or a
 5 fully human antibody developed from a single chain antibody. Single domain and single
   chain antibodies are also included within the term "recombinant antibody".
           In certain embodiments, an antibody of the invention is a monoclonal antibody, and in
   certain embodiments, the invention makes available methods for generating novel antibodies.
   For example, a method for generating a monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to an
 ) ActRIIb polypeptide may comprise administering to a mouse an amount of an immunogenic
   composition comprising the antigen polypeptide effective to stimulate a detectable immune
   response, obtaining antibody-producing cells (e.g., cells from the spleen) from the mouse and
   fusing the antibody-poducing cells with myeloma cells to obtain antibody-producing
   hybridomas, and testing the antibody-producing hybridomas to identify a hybridoma that
 5 produces a monocolonal antibody that binds specifically to the antigen. Once obtained, a
   hybridoma can be propagated in a cell culture, optionally in culture conditions where the
   hybridoma-derived cells produce the monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to the
   antigen. The monoclonal antibody may be purified from the cell culture.
           The adjective "specifically reactive with" as used in reference to an antibody is
 ) intended to mean, as is generally understood in the art, that the antibody is sufficiently
   selective between the antigen of interest (e.g., an ActRIlb polypeptide) and other antigens
   that are not of interest that the antibody is useful for, at minimum, detecting the presence of
   the antigen of interest in a particular type of biological sample. In certain methods employing
   the antibody, such as therapeutic applications, a higher degree of specificity in binding may
5  be desirable. Monoclonal antibodies generally have a greater tendency (as compared to
   polyclonal antibodies) to discriminate effectively between the desired antigens and cross
   reacting polypeptides. One characteristic that influences the specificity of an
   antibody:antigen interaction is the affinity of the antibody for the antigen. Although the
   desired specificity may be reached with a range of different affinities, generally preferred
0  antibodies will have an affinity (a dissociation constant) of about 10-6 , 10-1, 10-8 , 10~ M or
   less.
                                                     -36-

            In addition, the techniques used to screen antibodies in order to identify a desirable
   antibody may influence the properties of the antibody obtained. For example, if an antibody
   is to be used for binding an antigen in solution, it may be desirable to test solution binding. A
   variety of different techniques are available for testing interaction between antibodies and
 5 antigens to identify particularly desirable antibodies. Such techniques include ELISAs,
   surface plasmon resonance binding assays (e.g., the BiacoreiN binding assay, Biacore AB,
   Uppsala, Sweden), sandwich assays (e.g., the paramagnetic bead system of IGEN
   International, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland), western blots, immunoprecipitation assays, and
   immunohistochemistry.
 )          Examples of categories of nucleic acid compounds that are ActRIIb antagonists
   include antisense nucleic acids, RNAi constructs and catalytic nucleic acid constructs. A
   nucleic acid compound may be single or double stranded. A double stranded compound may
   also include regions of overhang or non-complementarity, where one or the other of the
   strands is single stranded. A single stranded compound may include regions of self
 5 complementarity, meaning that the compound forms a so-called "hairpin" or "stem-loop"
   structure, with a region of double helical structure. A nucleic acid compound may comprise a
   nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a region consisting of no more than 1000, no
   more than 500, no more than 250, no more than 100, or no more than 50, 35, 25, 22, 20, 18 or
    15 nucleotides of the fill-length ActRuIb nucleic acid sequence or activin PA,   sO. Pc, or P,
 ) nucleic acid sequence. The region of complementarity will preferably be at least 8
   nucleotides, and optionally about 18 to 35 nucleotides. A region of complementarity may fall
   within an intron, a coding sequence or a noncoding sequence of the target transcript, such as
   the coding sequence portion. Generally, a nucleic acid compound will have a length of about
   8 to about 500 nucleotides or base pairs in length, and optionally the length will be about 14
5  to about 50 nucleotides. A nucleic acid may be a DNA (particularly for use as an antisense),
   RNA or RNA:DNA hybrid. Any one strand may include a mixture of DNA and RNA, as
   well as modified forms that cannot readily be classified as either DNA or RNA. Likewise, a
   double stranded compound may be DNA:DNA, DNA:RNA or RNA:RNA, and any one
   strand may also include a mixture of DNA and RNA, as well as modified forms that cannot
0  readily be classified as either DNA or RNA. A nucleic acid compound may include any of a
   variety of modifications, including one or more modifications to the backbone (the sugar
   phosphate portion in a natural nucleic acid, including internucleotide linkages) or the base
   portion (the purine or pyrimidine portion of a natural nucleic acid). An antisense nucleic acid
                                                    -37-

   compound will preferably have a length of about 15 to about 30 nucleotides and will often
   contain one or more modifications to improve characteristics such as stability in the serum, in
   a cell or in a place where the compound is likely to be delivered, such as the stomach in the
   case of orally delivered compounds and the lung for inhaled compounds. In the case of an
 5 RNAi construct, the strand complementary to the target transcript will generally be RNA or
   modifications thereof. The other strand may be RNA, DNA or any other variation. The
   duplex portion of double stranded or single stranded "hairpin" RNAi construct will generally
   have a length of 18 to 40 nucleotides in length and optionally about 21 to 23 nucleotides in
   length, so long as it serves as a Dicer substrate. Catalytic or enzymatic nucleic acids may be
 ) ribozymes or DNA enzymes and may also contain modified forms. Nucleic acid compounds
   may inhibit expression of the target by about 50%, 75%, 90% or more when contacted with
   cells under physiological conditions and at a concentration where a nonsense or sense control
   has little or no effect. Preferred concentrations for testing the effect of nucleic acid
   compounds are 1, 5 and 10 micromolar. Nucleic acid compounds may also be tested for
 5 effects on, for example, red blood cell levels.
            In certain embodiments, an ActRIlb antagonist may be a follistatin polypeptide that
   antagonizes activin bioactivity and/or binds to activin. The term "follistatin polypeptide"
   includes polypeptides comprising any naturally occurring polypeptide of follistatin as well as
   any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic forms) that
 ) retain a useful activity, and further includes any functional monomer or multimer of
   follistatin. Variants of follistatin polypeptides that retain activin binding properties can be
   identified based on previous studies involving follistatin and activin interactions. For
   example, W02008/030367 discloses specific follistatin domains ("FSDs") that are shown to
   be important for activin binding. As shown below in SEQ ID NOs: 9-11, the N-terminus
5  follistatin domain ("FSND" SEQ ID NO: 9), FSD2 (SEQ ID NO: 10), and to a lesser extent
   FSDI (SEQ ID NO: 11) represent exemplary domains within follistatin important for activin
   binding. In addition, methods for making and testing libraries of polypeptides are described
   above in the context of ActRIIb polypeptides and such methods also pertain to making and
   testing variants of follistatin. Follistatin polypeptides include polypeptides derived from the
0  sequence of any known follistatin having a sequence at least about 80% identical to the
   sequence of a follistatin polypeptide, and optionally at least 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or
   greater identity. Examples of follistatin polypeptides include the mature follistatin
                                                     -38-

   polypeptide or shorter isoforms or other variants of the human follistatin precursor
   polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 7) as described, for example, in WO2005/025601.
           The human follistatin precursor polypeptide isoform FST344 is as follows:
           MVRARHQPGGLCLLLLLLCQFMEDRSAQAGNCWLRQAKNGRCQVLYKTEL
 5         SKEECCSTGRLSTSWTEEDVNDNTLFKWMIFNGGAPNCIPCKETCENVDC
           GPGKKCRMNKKNKPRCVCAPDCSNITWKGPVCGLDGKTYRNECALLKARC
           KEQPELEVQYQGRCKKTCRDVFCPGSSTCVVDQTNNAYCVTCNRICPEPA
           SSEQYLCGNDGVTYSSACHLRKATCLLGRSIGLAYEGKCIKAKSCEDIQC
           TGGKKCLWDFKVGRGRCSLCDELCPDSKSDEPVCASDNATYASECAMKEA
 )         ACSSGVLLEVKHGSCNSISEDTEEEEEDEDQDYSFPISSILEW                         (SEQ ID
           NO: 7; NP_037541.1 FOLLISTATIN ISOFORM FST344)
   The signal peptide is single underlined; the last 27 residues in bold represent additional amino
   acids as compared to a shorter follistatin isoform FST317 (NP 006341) below.
           The human follistatin precursor polypeptide isoform FST317 is as follows:
 5         MVRARHQPGGLCLLLLLLCQFMEDRSAQAGNCWLRQAKNGRCQVLYKTEL
           SKEECCSTGRLSTSWTEEDVNDNTLFKWMIFNGGAPNCIPCKETCENVDC
           GPGKKCRMNKKNKPRCVCAPDCSNITWKGPVCGLDGKTYRNECALLKARC
           KEQPELEVQYQGRCKKTCRDVFCPGSSTCVVDQTNNAYCVTCNRICPEPA
           SSEQYLCGNDGVTYSSACHLRKATCLLGRSIGLAYEGKCIKAKSCEDIQC
 )         TGGKKCLWDFKVGRGRCSLCDELCPDSKSDEPVCASDNATYASECAMKEA
           ACSSGVLLEVKHSGSCN           (SEQIDNO:8)
   The signal peptide is single underlined.
           N-terminus follistatin domain (FSND) sequence is as follows:
           GNCWLRQAKNGRCQVLYKTELSKEECCSTGRLSTSWTEEDVNDNTLFKWM
5          IFNGGAPNCIPCK (SEQIDNO:9; FSND)
           The FSDI and FSD2 sequences are as follows:
           ETCENVDCGPGKKCRMNKKNKPRCV                (SEQ ID NO: 10; FSDI)
           KTCRDVFCPGSSTCVVDQTNNAYCVT                 (SEQ ID NO: 11;FSD2)
           In other embodiments, an antagonist for use herein may be a follistatin-like related
0  gene (FLRG) that antagonizes activin bioactivity and/or binds to activin and other ligands
   with a spectrum that resembles that of ActRIIb-Fc. The term "FLRG polypeptide" includes
                                                    -39-

   polypeptides comprising any naturally occurring polypeptide of FLRG as well as any variants
   thereof (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful
   activity. Variants of FLRG polypeptides that retain activin binding properties can be
   identified using routine methods to assay FLRG and activin interactions. See, for example,
 5 US 6,537,966. In addition, methods for making and testing libraries of polypeptides are
   described above in the context of ActRIlb polypeptides and such methods also pertain to
   making and testing variants of FLRG. FLRG polypeptides include polypeptides derived from
   the sequence of any known FLRG having a sequence at least about 80% identical to the
   sequence of an FLRG polypeptide, and optionally at least 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or
 ) greater identity.
            The human FLRG precursor polypeptide is as follows:
            MRPGAPGPLWPLPWGALAWAVGFVS SMGSGNPAPGGVCWLQQGQEATCSL
            VLQTDVTRAECCASGNIDTAWSNLTHPGNKINLLGFLGLVHCLPCKDSCD
            GVE CGPGKACRML GGRPRCE CAPDC S GL PARLQVCGS DGAT YRDE CE LRA
 5          ARCRGHPDLSVMYRGRCRKSCEHVVCPRPQSCVVDQTGSAHCVVCRAAPC
            VPSSPGQELCGNNNVTYISSCHMRQATCFLGRSIGVRHAGSCAGTPEEPP
            GGESAEEEENFV (SEQ ID NO: 12; NP_005851)
   The signal peptide is single underlined.
            In certain embodiments, functional variants or modified forms of the
 ) follistatin polypeptides and FLRG polypeptides include fusion protein having at
   least a portion of the follistatin polypeptides or FLRG polypeptides and one or
   more fusion domains, such as, for example, domains that facilitate isolation,
   detection, stabilization or multimerization of the polypeptide. Suitable fusion
   domains are discussed in detail above with reference to the ActRIlb polypeptides.
5  In one embodiment, an antagonist is a fusion protein comprising an activin
   binding portion of a follistaton polypeptide fused to an Fc domain. In another
   embodiment, an antagonist is a fusion protein comprising an activin binding
   portion of an FLRG polypeptide fused to an Fc domain. Follistatin and FLRG
   have been shown in the literature, and by the applicants with respect to FLRG, to
0  have affinities for Activin A in the picomolar range, indicating that these agents
   will inhibit activin A signaling to a similar degree as ActRlIb-Fc.
                                                     -40-

   5.       ScreeninQ Assays
            In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the use of ActRIlb polypeptides
   (e.g., soluble ActRlb polypeptides) and activin or other ActRlb ligands to identify
   compounds (agents) which are agonist or antagonists of the ActRllb signaling pathway.
 5 Compounds identified through this screening can be tested to assess their ability to modulate
   bone growth or mineralization or stimulate muscle growth in vitro. Optionally, these
   compounds can further be tested in animal models to assess their ability to modulate tissue
   growth in vivo.
            There are numerous approaches to screening for therapeutic agents for modulating
 ) tissue growth by targeting ActRlIb polypeptides. In certain embodiments, high-throughput
   screening of compounds can be carried out to identify agents that perturb ActRIIb-mediated
   effects on bone or muscle. In certain embodiments, the assay is carried out to screen and
   identify compounds that specifically inhibit or reduce binding of an ActRIlb polypeptide to
   activin or another ligand. Alternatively, the assay can be used to identify compounds that
 5 enhance binding of an ActRIb polypeptide to activin or another ligand. In a further
   embodiment, the compounds can be identified by their ability to interact with an ActRIIb
   polypeptide.
            A variety of assay formats will suffice and, in light of the present disclosure, those not
   expressly described herein will nevertheless be comprehended by one of ordinary skill in the
 ) art. As described herein, the test compounds (agents) of the invention may be created by any
   combinatorial chemical method. Alternatively, the subject compounds may be naturally
   occurring biomolecules synthesized in vivo or in vitro. Compounds (agents) to be tested for
   their ability to act as modulators of tissue growth can be produced, for example, by bacteria,
   yeast, plants or other organisms (e.g., natural products), produced chemically (e.g., small
5  molecules, including peptidomimetics), or produced recombinantly. Test compounds
   contemplated by the present invention include non-peptidyl organic molecules, peptides,
   polypeptides, peptidomimetics, sugars, hormones, and nucleic acid molecules. In a specific
   embodiment, the test agent is a small organic molecule having a molecular weight of less
   than about 2,000 daltons.
0           The test compounds of the invention can be provided as single, discrete entities, or
   provided in libraries of greater complexity, such as made by combinatorial chemistry. These
   libraries can comprise, for example, alcohols, alkyl halides, amines, amides, esters,
                                                     -41-

   aldehydes, ethers and other classes of organic compounds. Presentation of test compounds to
   the test system can be in either an isolated form or as mixtures of compounds, especially in
   initial screening steps. Optionally, the compounds may be optionally derivatized with other
   compounds and have derivatizing groups that facilitate isolation of the compounds. Non
 5 limiting examples of derivatizing groups include biotin, fluorescein, digoxygenin, green
   fluorescent protein, isotopes, polyhistidine, magnetic beads, glutathione S transferase (GST),
   photoactivatible crosslinkers or any combinations thereof
            In many drug screening programs which test libraries of compounds and natural
   extracts, high throughput assays are desirable in order to maximize the number of compounds
 ) surveyed in a given period of time. Assays which are performed in cell-free systems, such as
   may be derived with purified or semi-purified proteins, are often preferred as "primary"
   screens in that they can be generated to permit rapid development and relatively easy
   detection of an alteration in a molecular target which is mediated by a test compound.
   Moreover, the effects of cellular toxicity or bioavailability of the test compound can be
 5 generally ignored in the in vitro system, the assay instead being focused primarily on the
   effect of the drug on the molecular target as may be manifest in an alteration of binding
   affinity between an ActRIlb polypeptide and activin.
            Merely to illustrate, in an exemplary screening assay of the present invention, the
   compound of interest is contacted with an isolated and purified ActRlIb polypeptide which is
 ) ordinarily capable of binding to activin. To the mixture of the compound and ActRIIb
   polypeptide is then added a composition containing an ActRIlb ligand. Detection and
   quantification of ActRIlb/activin complexes provides a means for determining the
   compound's efficacy at inhibiting (or potentiating) complex formation between the ActRIlb
   polypeptide and activin. The efficacy of the compound can be assessed by generating dose
5  response curves from data obtained using various concentrations of the test compound.
   Moreover, a control assay can also be performed to provide a baseline for comparison. For
   example, in a control assay, isolated and purified activin is added to a composition containing
   the ActRlIb polypeptide, and the formation of ActRlIb/activin complex is quantitated in the
   absence of the test compound. It will be understood that, in general, the order in which the
0  reactants may be admixed can be varied, and can be admixed simultaneously. Moreover, in
   place of purified proteins, cellular extracts and lysates may be used to render a suitable cell
   free assay system.
                                                    -42-

           Complex formation between the ActRIb polypeptide and activin may be detected by
   a variety of techniques. For instance, modulation of the formation of complexes can be
   quantitated using, for example, detectably labeled proteins such as radiolabeled (e.g., 32 P, 35 S,
   "C or 3fH), fluorescently labeled (e.g., FITC), or enzymatically labeled ActRIlb polypeptide
 5 or activin, by immunoassay, or by chromatographic detection.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates the use of fluorescence
   polarization assays and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assays in measuring,
   either directly or indirectly, the degree of interaction between an ActRIIb polypeptide and its
   binding protein. Further, other modes of detection, such as those based on optical
 ) waveguides (PCT Publication WO 96/26432 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,677,196), surface plasmon
   resonance (SPR), surface charge sensors, and surface force sensors, are compatible with
   many embodiments of the invention.
           Moreover, the present invention contemplates the use of an interaction trap assay, also
   known as the "two hybrid assay," for identifying agents that disrupt or potentiate interaction
 5 between an ActRIlb polypeptide and its binding protein. See for example, U.S. Pat. No.
   5,283,317; Zervos et al. (1993) Cell 72:223-232; Madura et al. (1993) J Biol Chem
   268:12046-12054; Bartel et al. (1993) Biotechniques 14:920-924; and Iwabuchi et al. (1993)
   Oncogene 8:1693-1696). In a specific embodiment, the present invention contemplates the
   use of reverse two hybrid systems to identify compounds (e.g., small molecules or peptides)
 ) that dissociate interactions between an ActRIIb polypeptide and its binding protein. See for
   example, Vidal and Legrain, (1999) Nucleic Acids Res 27:919-29; Vidal and Legrain, (1999)
   Trends Biotechnol 17:374-81; and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,525,490; 5,955,280; and 5,965,368.
           In certain embodiments, the subject compounds are identified by their ability to
   interact with an ActRIIb or activin polypeptide of the invention. The interaction between the
5  compound and the ActRIIb or activin polypeptide may be covalent or non-covalent. For
   example, such interaction can be identified at the protein level using in vitro biochemical
   methods, including photo-crosslinking, radiolabeled ligand binding, and affinity
   chromatography (Jakoby WB et al., 1974, Methods in Enzymology 46: 1). In certain cases,
   the compounds may be screened in a mechanism based assay, such as an assay to detect
0  compounds which bind to an activin or ActRIlb polypeptide. This may include a solid phase
   or fluid phase binding event. Alternatively, the gene encoding an activin or ActRIIb
   polypeptide can be transfected with a reporter system (e.g., p-galactosidase, luciferase, or
                                                     -43-

   green fluorescent protein) into a cell and screened against the library preferably by a high
   throughput screening or with individual members of the library. Other mechanism based
   binding assays may be used, for example, binding assays which detect changes in free
   energy. Binding assays can be performed with the target fixed to a well, bead or chip or
 5 captured by an immobilized antibody or resolved by capillary electrophoresis. The bound
   compounds may be detected usually using colorimetric or fluorescence or surface plasmon
   resonance.
            In certain aspects, the present invention provides methods and agents for modulating
   (stimulating or inhibiting) bone formation and increasing bone mass. Therefore, any
 ) compound identified can be tested in whole cells or tissues, in vitro or in vivo, to confirm
   their ability to modulate bone or cartilage growth. Various methods known in the art can be
   utilized for this purpose.
            For example, the effect of the ActRIIb or activin polypeptides or test compounds on
   bone or cartilage growth can be determined by measuring induction of Msx2 or
 5 differentiation of osteoprogenitor cells into osteoblasts in cell based assays (see, e.g., Daluiski
   et al., Nat Genet. 2001, 27(I):84-8; Hino et al., Front Biosci. 2004, 9:1520-9). Another
   example of cell-based assays includes analyzing the osteogenic activity of the subject
   ActRIlb or activin polypeptides and test compounds in mesenchymal progenitor and
   osteoblastic cells. To illustrate, recombinant adenoviruses expressing an activin or ActRIIb
 ) polypeptide can be constructed to infect pluripotent mesenchymal progenitor C3H10T1/2
   cells, preosteoblastic C2C12 cells, and osteoblastic TE-85 cells. Osteogenic activity is then
   determined by measuring the induction of alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, and matrix
   mineralization (see, e.g., Cheng et al., J bone Joint Surg Am. 2003, 85-A(8):1544-52).
            The present invention also contemplates in vivo assays to measure bone or cartilage
5  growth. For example, Namkung-Matthai et al., Bone, 28:80-86 (2001) discloses a rat
   osteoporotic model in which bone repair during the early period after fracture is studied.
   Kubo et al., Steroid Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, 68:197-202 (1999) also discloses a
   rat osteoporotic model in which bone repair during the late period after fracture is studied.
   Andersson et al., J. Endocrinol. 170:529-537 describe a mouse osteoporosis model in which
0  mice are ovariectomized, which causes the mice to lose substantial bone mineral content and
   bone mineral density, with the trabecular bone losing roughly 50% of bone mineral density.
   Bone density could be increased in the ovariectomized mice by administration of factors such
                                                     -44-

   as parathyroid hormone. In certain aspects, the present invention makes use of fracture
   healing assays that are known in the art. These assays include fracture technique, histological
   analysis, and biomechanical analysis, which are described in, for example, U.S. Pat. No.
   6,521,750, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for its disclosure of experimental
 5 protocols for causing as well as measuring the extent of fractures, and the repair process.
            In certain aspects, the present invention provides methods and agents for stimulating
   muscle growth and increasing muscle mass, for example, by antagonizing functions of an
   ActRIIb polypeptide and/or an ActRIIb ligand. Therefore, any compound identified can be
   tested in whole cells or tissues, in vitro or in vivo, to confirm their ability to modulate muscle
 ) growth. Various methods known in the art can be utilized for this purpose. For example,
   methods of the invention are performed such that the signal transduction through an ActRIIb
   protein activated by binding to an ActRIIb ligand (e.g., GDF8) has been reduced or inhibited.
   It will be recognized that the growth of muscle tissue in the organism would result in an
   increased muscle mass in the organism as compared to the muscle mass of a corresponding
 5 organism (or population of organisms) in which the signal transduction through an ActRIIb
   protein had not been so effected.
            For example, the effect of the ActRIIb polypeptides or test compounds on muscle cell
   growth/proliferation can be determined by measuring gene expression of Pax-3 and Myf-5
   which are associated with proliferation of myogenic cells, and gene expression of MyoD
 ) which is associated with muscle differentiation (e.g., Amthor et al., Dev Biol. 2002, 251:241
   57). It is known that GDF8 down-regulates gene expression of Pax-3 and Myf-5, and
   prevents gene expression of MyoD. The ActRIlb polypeptides or test compounds are
   expected to antagonize this activity of GDF8. Another example of cell-based assays includes
   measuring the proliferation of myoblasts such as C(2)C(12) myoblasts in the presence of the
5  ActRIIb polypeptides or test compounds (e.g., Thomas et al., I Biol Chem. 2000, 275:40235
   43).
            The present invention also contemplates in vivo assays to measure muscle mass and
   strength. For example, Whittemore et al. (Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2003, 300:965
   71) discloses a method of measuring increased skeletal muscle mass and increased grip
0  strength in mice. Optionally, this method can be used to determine therapeutic effects of test
   compounds (e.g., ActRIIb polypeptides) on muscle diseases or conditions, for example those
   diseases for which muscle mass is limiting.
                                                      -45-

           It is understood that the screening assays of the present invention apply to not only the
   subject ActRIIb polypeptides and variants of the ActRlIb polypeptides, but also any test
   compounds including agonists and antagonist of the ActRlIb polypeptides. Further, these
   screening assays are useful for drug target verification and quality control purposes.
   6.      Exemplary Therapeutic Uses
           In certain embodiments, ActRllb antagonists (e.g., ActRIIb polypeptides) of the
   present invention can be used for stimulating anabolic bone growth, treating an osteolytic
   bone tumor, and/or treating or preventing a disease or condition that would benefit from
   muscle growth. In certain embodiments, ActRIlb antagonists, and particularly ActRIlb-Fc
   constructs, may be used for treating or preventing cancer-related bone loss. In certain
   embodiments, the present invention provides methods of treating or preventing bone damage
   in an individual in need thereof through administering to the individual a therapeutically
   effective amount of an ActRIIb antagonist, particularly an ActRHb polypeptide. In certain
 5 embodiments, the present invention provides methods of promoting bone growth or
   mineralization in an individual in need thereof through administering to the individual a
   therapeutically effective amount of an ActRIIb antagonist, particularly an ActRIlb
   polypeptide. These methods are preferably aimed at therapeutic and prophylactic treatments
   of animals, and more preferably, humans. In certain embodiments, the disclosure provides
 ) for the use of ActRlIb antagonists (particularly soluble ActRIlb polypeptides and neutralizing
   antibodies targeted to ActRIlb) for the treatment of disorders associated with low bone
   density or decreased bone strength.
           As used herein, a therapeutic that "prevents" a disorder or condition refers to a
   compound that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or condition in
5  the treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or reduces the
   severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the untreated
   control sample. The term "treating" as used herein includes prophylaxis of the named
   condition or amelioration or elimination of the condition once it has been established. In
   either case, prevention or treatment may be discerned in the diagnosis provided by a
0  physician and the intended result of administration of the therapeutic agent.
                                                    -46-

            The disclosure provides methods of inducing bone and/or cartilage formation,
   preventing bone loss, increasing bone mineralization or preventing the demineralization of
   bone. For example, the subject ActRIIb antagonists have application in treating osteoporosis
   and the healing of bone fractures and cartilage defects in humans and other animals. ActRIIb
 5 polypeptides may be useful in patients that are diagnosed with subclinical low bone density,
   as a protective measure against the development of osteoporosis.
            In one specific embodiment, methods and compositions of the present invention may
   find medical utility in the healing of bone fractures and cartilage defects in humans and other
   animals. The subject methods and compositions may also have prophylactic use in closed as
 ) well as open fracture reduction and also in the improved fixation of artificial joints. De novo
   bone formation induced by an osteogenic agent contributes to the repair of congenital,
   trauma-induced, or oncologic resection induced craniofacial defects, and also is useful in
   cosmetic plastic surgery. In certain cases, the subject ActRIIb antagonists may provide an
   environment to attract bone-forming cells, stimulate growth of bone-forming cells or induce
 5 differentiation of progenitors of bone-forming cells. ActRlIb antagonists of the invention
   may also be useful in the treatment of osteoporosis.
            Methods and compositions of the invention can be applied to conditions characterized
   by or causing bone loss, such as osteoporosis (including secondary osteoporosis),
   hyperparathyroidism, Cushing's disease, Paget's disease, thyrotoxicosis, chronic diarrheal
 ) state or malabsorption, chronic renal disease, renal tubular acidosis, or anorexia nervosa.
            Osteoporosis may be caused by, or associated with, various factors. Being female,
   particularly a post-menopausal female, having a low body weight, and leading a sedentary
   lifestyle are all risk factors for osteoporosis (loss of bone mineral density, leading to fracture
   risk). Persons having any of the following profiles may be candidates for treatment with an
5  ActRIIb antagonist: a post-menopausal woman and not taking estrogen or other hormone
   replacement therapy; a person with a personal or maternal history of hip fracture or smoking;
   a post-menopausal woman who is tall (over 5 feet 7 inches) or thin (less than 125 pounds); a
   man with clinical conditions associated with bone loss; a person using medications that are
   known to cause bone loss, including corticosteroids such as Prednisonerm, various anti
0  seizure medications such as Dilantin"' and certain barbiturates, or high-dose thyroid
   replacement drugs; a person liver disease or a family history of osteoporosis; a person having
   high bone turnover (e.g., excessive collagen in urine samples); a person with a thyroid
                                                      -47-

   condition, such as hyperthyroidism; a person who has experienced a fracture after only mild
   trauma; a person who has had x-ray evidence of vertebral fracture or other signs of
   osteoporosis.
           As noted above, osteoporosis can also result as a condition associated with another
 5 disorder or from the use of certain medications. Osteoporosis resulting from drugs or another
   medical condition is known as secondary osteoporosis. In a condition known as Cushing's
   disease, the excess amount of cortisol produced by the body results in osteoporosis and
   fractures. The most common medications associated with secondary osteoporosis are the
   corticosteroids, a class of drugs that act like cortisol, a hormone produced naturally by the
 ) adrenal glands. Although adequate levels of thyroid hormones (which are produced by the
   thyroid gland) are needed for the development of the skeleton, excess thyroid hormone can
   decrease bone mass over time. Other medications that can cause secondary osteoporosis
   include phenytoin (Dilantin) and barbiturates that are used to prevent seizures; methotrexate
   (Rheumatrex, Immunex, Folex PFS), a drug for some forms of arthritis, cancer, and immune
 5 disorders; cyclosporine (Sandimmune, Neoral), a drug used to treat some autoimmnune
   diseases and to suppress the immune system in organ transplant patients; luteinizing
   hormone-releasing hormone agonists (Lupron, Zoladex), used to treat prostate cancer and
   endometriosis; heparin (Calciparine, Liquaemin), an anticlotting medication; and
   cholestyramine (Questran) and colestipol (Colestid), used to treat high cholesterol.
 )         Bone loss resulting from cancer therapy is widely recognized and termed cancer
   therapy induced bone loss (CTIBL). Bone metastases can create cavities in the bone that may
   be corrected by treatment with ActRIlb antagonists.
           In a preferred embodiment, ActRIIb antagonists, particularly a soluble ActRIb,
   disclosed herein may be used in cancer patients. As demonstrated herein, an ActRIIb-Fc
5  fusion protein is capable of promoting anabolic bone growth in human patients. It has been
   demonstrated that anabolic bone agents are useful for treating multiple myeloma (see e.g.,
   Yaccoby et at., Blood, 109(5):2106-11 (2007); Oyajobi et al., Br J Haematol. 139(3):434-8
   (2007); Fulciniti et al., Blood, 114(2): 371-9 (2009); Stewart et al. Journal of Cellular
   Biochemistry 98:1-13 (2006) ). Accordingly, the Activin-ActRIIb antagonists described
0  herein are believed to be useful for treating multiple myeloma and other bone tumors.
   Patients having certain tumors (e.g. prostate, breast, multiple myeloma or any tumor causing
   hyperparathyroidism) are at high risk for bone loss due to tumor-induced bone loss as well as
                                                     -48-

   bone metastases and therapeutic agents. Such patients may be treated with ActRlIb
   antagonists even in the absence of evidence of bone loss or bone metastases. Patients may
   also be monitored for evidence of bone loss or bone metastases, and may be treated with
   ActRIIb antagonists in the event that indicators suggest an increased risk. Generally, DEXA
 5 scans are employed to assess changes in bone density, while indicators of bone remodeling
   may be used to assess the likelihood of bone metastases. Serum markers may be monitored.
   Bone specific alkaline phosphatase (BSAP) is an enzyme that is present in osteoblasts. Blood
   levels of BSAP are increased in patients with bone metastasis and other conditions that result
   in increased bone remodeling. Osteocalcin and procollagen peptides are also associated with
 ) bone formation and bone metastases. Increases in BSAP have been detected in patients with
   bone metastasis caused by prostate cancer, and to a lesser degree, in bone metastases from
   breast cancer. Bone Morphogenetic Protein-7 (BMP-7) levels are high in prostate cancer that
   has metastasized to bone, but not in bone metastases due to bladder, skin, liver, or lung
   cancer. Type I Carboxy-terminal telopeptide (ICTP) is a crosslink found in collagen that is
 5 formed during to the resorption of bone. Since bone is constantly being broken down and
   reformed, ICTP will be found throughout the body. However, at the site of bone metastasis,
   the level will be significantly higher than in an area of normal bone. ICTP has been found in
   high levels in bone metastasis due to prostate, lung, and breast cancer. Another collagen
   crosslink, Type I N-terminal telopeptide (NTx), is produced along with ICTP during bone
 ) turnover. The amount of NTx is increased in bone metastasis caused by many different types
   of cancer including lung, prostate, and breast cancer. Also, the levels of NTx increase with
   the progression of the bone metastasis. Therefore, this marker can be used to both detect
   metastasis as well as measure the extent of the disease. Other markers of resorption include
   pyridinoline and deoxypyridinoline. Any increase in resorption markers or markers of bone
5  metastases indicate the need for ActRllb antagonist therapy in a patient.
            Because ActRIlb-Fc has a clear effect on markers of osteoblast activity (e.g., BSAP
   levels), ActRIlb-Fc molecules may be particularly useful in cancer-related bone loss settings
   where the bone disease is of an osteolytic nature, rather than an osteoblastic nature. This is
   typically true of multiple myeloma and bone metastases from a variety of tumors. However,
0  bone metastases from prostate cancer in particular have a tendency to be osteoblastic in
   nature, and ActRIIb-Fc fusion proteins may not be beneficial in this setting.
                                                    -49-

           ActRIIb antagonists may be conjointly administered with other pharmaceutical
   agents. Conjoint administration may be accomplished by administration of a single co
   formulation, by simultaneous administration or by administration at separate times. ActRIIb
   antagonists may be particularly advantageous if administered with other bone-active agents.
 5 A patient may benefit from conjointly receiving ActRIIb antagonist and taking calcium
   supplements, vitamin D, appropriate exercise and/or, in some cases, other medication.
   Examples of other medications incude, bisphosphonates (alendronate, ibandronate and
   risedronate), calcitonin, estrogens, parathyroid hormone and raloxifene. The bisphosphonates
   (alendronate, ibandronate and risedronate), calcitonin, estrogens and raloxifene affect the
 ) bone remodeling cycle and are classified as anti-resorptive medications. Bone remodeling
   consists of two distinct stages: bone resorption and bone formation. Anti-resorptive
   medications slow or stop the bone-resorbing portion of the bone-remodeling cycle but do not
   slow the bone-forming portion of the cycle. As a result, new formation continues at a greater
   rate than bone resorption, and bone density may increase over time. Teriparatide, a form of
 5 parathyroid hormone, increases the rate of bone formation in the bone remodeling cycle.
   Alendronate is approved for both the prevention (5 mg per day or 35 mg once a week) and
   treatment (10 mg per day or 70 mg once a week) of postmenopausal osteopomsis.
   Alendronate reduces bone loss, increases bone density and reduces the risk of spine, wrist and
   hip fractures. Alendronate also is approved for treatment of glucocorticoid-induced
 ) osteoporosis in men and women as a result of long-term use of these medications (i.e.,
   prednisone and cortisone) and for the treatment of osteoporosis in men. Alendronate plus
   vitamin D is approved for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women (70 mg
   once a week plus vitamin D), and for treatment to improve bone mass in men with
   osteoporosis. Ibandronate is approved for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal
5  osteoporosis. Taken as a once-a-month pill (150 mg), ibandronate should be taken on the
   same day each month. Ibandronate reduces bone loss, increases bone density and reduces the
   risk of spine fractures. Risedronate is approved for the prevention and treatment of
   postmenopausal osteoporosis. Taken daily (5 mg dose) or weekly (35 mg dose or 35 mg dose
   with calcium), risedronate slows bone loss, increases bone density and reduces the risk of
0  spine and non-spine fractures. Risedronate also is approved for use by men and women to
   prevent and/or treat glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis that results from long-term use of
   these medications (i.e., prednisone or cortisone). Calcitonin is a naturally occurring hormone
   involved in calcium regulation and bone metabolism. In women who are more than 5 years
                                                   -50-

   beyond menopause, calcitonin slows bone loss, increases spinal bone density, and may
   relieve the pain associated with bone fractures. Calcitonin reduces the risk of spinal fractures.
   Calcitonin is available as an injection (50-100 IU daily) or nasal spray (200 LU daily).
   Estrogen therapy (ET)/Hormone therapy (HT) is approved for the prevention of osteoporosis.
 5 ET has been shown to reduce bone loss, increase bone density in both the spine and hip, and
   reduce the risk of hip and spinal fractures in postmenopausal women. ET is administered
   most commonly in the form of a pill or skin patch that delivers a low dose of approximately
   0.3 mg daily or a standard dose of approximately 0.625 mg daily and is effective even when
   started after age 70. When estrogen is taken alone, it can increase a woman's risk of
 ) developing cancer of the uterine lining (endometrial cancer). To eliminate this risk,
   healthcare providers prescribe the hormone progestin in combination with estrogen (hormone
   replacement therapy or HT) for those women who have an intact uterus. ET/HT relieves
   menopause symptoms and has been shown to have a beneficial effect on bone health. Side
   effects may include vaginal bleeding, breast tenderness, mood disturbances and gallbladder
 5 disease. Raloxifene, 60 mg a day, is approved for the prevention and treatment of
   postmenopausal osteoporosis. It is from a class of drugs called Selective Estrogen Receptor
   Modulators (SERMs) that have been developed to provide the beneficial effects of estrogens
   without their potential disadvantages. Raloxifene increases bone mass and reduces the risk of
   spine fractures. Data are not yet available to demonstrate that raloxifene can reduce the risk
 ) of hip and other non-spine fractures. Teriparatide, a form of parathyroid hormone, is
   approved for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men who are at
   high risk for a fracture. This medication stimulates new bone formation and significantly
   increases bone mineral density. In postmenopausal women, fracture reduction was noted in
   the spine, hip, foot, ribs and wrist. In men, fracture reduction was noted in the spine, but there
5  were insufficient data to evaluate fracture reduction at other sites. Teriparatide is self
   administered as a daily injection for up to 24 months.
           As shown herein, ActRIlb antagonists are also useful in promoting muscle growth,
   and as such may be useful in a host of muscle-related disorders. Exemplary muscle-related
   conditions include neuromuscular disorders (e.g., muscular dystrophy and muscle atrophy),
0  congestive obstructive pulmonary disease (and muscle wasting associated with COPD),
   muscle wasting syndrome, sarcopenia, cachexia, adipose tissue disorders (e.g., obesity), type
   2 diabetes, and bone degenerative disease (e.g., osteoporosis). Other exemplary conditions
   include musculodegenerative and neuromuscular disorders, tissue repair (e.g., wound
                                                     -51-

   healing), neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), immunologic
   disorders (e.g., disorders related to abnormal proliferation or function of lymphocytes), and
   obesity or disorders related to abnormal proliferation of adipocytes.
           In certain embodiments, ActRIlb antagonists are used as part of a treatment for a
 5 muscular dystrophy. The term "muscular dystrophy" refers to a group of degenerative
   muscle diseases characterized by gradual weakening and deterioration of skeletal muscles
   and sometimes the heart and respiratory muscles. Muscular dystrophies are genetic disorders
   characterized by progressive muscle wasting and weakness that begin with microscopic
   changes in the muscle. As muscles degenerate over time, the person's muscle strength
 ) declines. Exemplary muscular dystrophies that can be treated with a regimen including the
   subject ActRIIb polypeptides include: Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD), Becker
   Muscular Dystrophy (BMD), Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy (EDMD), Limb-Girdle
   Muscular Dystrophy (LGMD), Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy (FSH or FSHD)
   (also known as Landouzy-Dejerine), Myotonic Dystrophy (MMD) (also known as Steinert's
 5 Disease), Oculopharyngeal Muscular Dystrophy (OPMD), Distal Muscular Dystrophy (DD),
   Congenital Muscular Dystrophy (CMD).
           Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) was first described by the French neurologist
   Guillaume Benjamin Amand Duchenne in the 1860s. Becker Muscular Dystrophy (BMD) is
   named after the German doctor Peter Emil Becker, who first described this variant of DMD
 ) in the 1950s. DMD is one of the most frequent inherited diseases in males, affecting one in
   3,500 boys. DMD occurs when the dystrophin gene, located on the short arm of the X
   chromosome, is broken. Since males only carry one copy of the X chromosome, they only
   have one copy of the dystrophin gene. Without the dystrophin protein, muscle is easily
   damaged during cycles of contraction and relaxation. While early in the disease muscle
5  compensates by regeneration, later on muscle progenitor cells cannot keep up with the
   ongoing damage and healthy muscle is replaced by non-functional fibro-fatty tissue. A dual
   effect on muscle and bone may be useful in muscular dystrophy patients.
           BMD results from different mutations in the dystrophin gene. BMD patients have
   some dystrophin, but it is either insufficient in quantity or poor in quality. Having some
0  dystrophin protects the muscles of those with BMD from degenerating as badly or as quickly
   as those of people with DMD.
                                                     -52-

           For example, recent researches demonstrate that blocking or eliminating function of
   GDF8 (an ActRIIb ligand) in vivo can effectively treat at least certain symptoms in DMD and
   BMD patients. Thus, the subject ActRIIb antagonists may act as GDF8 inhibitors
   (antagonists), and constitute an alternative means of blocking the functions of GDF8 and/or
 5 ActRIIb in vivo in DMD and BMD patients. An ActRIlb-Fc protein has been shown to
   increase muscle mass in a mouse model of muscular dystrophy (see U.S. Publication No.
   2009/0005308).
           Similarly, the subject ActRIlb antagonists provide an effective means to increase
   muscle mass in other disease conditions that are in need of muscle growth. For example,
 ) ALS, also called Lou Gehrig's disease (motor neuron disease) is a chronic, incurable, and
   unstoppable CNS disorder that attacks the motor neurons, components of the CNS that
   connect the brain to the skeletal muscles. In ALS, the motor neurons deteriorate and
   eventually die, and though a person's brain normally remains fully functioning and alert, the
   command to move never reaches the muscles. Most people who get ALS are between 40 and
 5 70 years old. The first motor neurons that weaken are those leading to the arms or legs.
   Those with ALS may have trouble walking, they may drop things, fall, slur their speech, and
   laugh or cry uncontrollably. Eventually the muscles in the limbs begin to atrophy from
   disuse. This muscle weakness will become debilitating and a person will need a wheel chair
   or become unable to function out of bed. Most ALS patients die from respiratory failure or
 ) from complications of ventilator assistance like pneumonia, 3-5 years from disease onset. An
   ActRIIb-Fc protein has been shown shown to improve the appearance, muscle mass and
   lifespan of a mouse model of ALS (see U.S. Publication No. 2009/0005308).
           ActRIIb antagonists-induced increased muscle mass might also benefit those suffering
   from muscle wasting diseases. It has been observed that GDF8 expression correlates
5  inversely with fat-free mass in humans and that increased expression of the GDF8 gene is
   associated with weight loss in men with AIDS wasting syndrome. By inhibiting the function
   of GDF8 in AIDS patients, at least certain symptoms of AIDS may be alleviated, if not
   completely eliminated, thus significantly improving quality of life in AIDS patients.
           Since loss of GDF8 (an ActRIIb ligand) function is also associated with fat loss
0  without diminution of nutrient intake, the subject ActRIIb antagonists may further be used as
   a therapeutic agent for slowing or preventing the development of obesity and type II diabetes.
                                                   -53-

   This approach is confirmed and supported by the data shown herein, whereby an ActRIIb-Fc
   protein was shown to improve metabolic status in obese mice.
            The cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome is among the most debilitating and life
   threatening aspects of cancer. Progressive weight loss in cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome
 5 is a common feature of many types of cancer and is responsible not only for a poor quality of
   life and poor response to chemotherapy, but also a shorter survival time than is found in
   patients with comparable tumors without weight loss. Associated with anorexia, fat and
   muscle tissue wasting, psychological distress, and a lower quality of life, cachexia arises from
   a complex interaction between the cancer and the host. It is one of the most common causes
 ) of death among cancer patients and is present in 80% at death. It is a complex example of
   metabolic chaos effecting protein, carbohydrate, and fat metabolism. Tumors produce both
   direct and indirect abnormalities, resulting in anorexia and weight loss. Currently, there is no
   treatment to control or reverse the process. Cancer anorexia-cachexia syndrome affects
   cytokine production, release of lipid-mobilizing and proteolysis-inducing factors, and
 5 alterations in intermediary metabolism. Although anorexia is common, a decreased food
   intake alone is unable to account for the changes in body composition seen in cancer patients,
   and increasing nutrient intake is unable to reverse the wasting syndrome. Cachexia should be
   suspected in patients with cancer if an involuntary weight loss of greater than five percent of
   premorbid weight occurs within a six-month period.
            Since systemic overexpression of GDF8 in adult mice has been shown to induce
   profound muscle and fat loss analogous to that seen in human cachexia syndromes, the
   subject ActRIIb antagonists as pharmaceutical compositions can be beneficially used to
   prevent, treat, or alleviate the symptoms of the cachexia syndrome, where muscle growth is
   desired.
5           In other embodiments, the present invention provides compositions and methods for
   regulating body fat content in an animal and for treating or preventing conditions related
   thereto, and particularly, health-compromising conditions related thereto. According to the
   present invention, to regulate (control) body weight can refer to reducing or increasing body
   weight, reducing or increasing the rate of weight gain, or increasing or reducing the rate of
0  weight loss, and also includes actively maintaining, or not significantly changing body weight
   (e.g., against external or internal influences which may otherwise increase or decrease body
                                                    -54-

   weight). One embodiment of the present invention relates to regulating body weight by
   administering to an animal (e.g., a human) in need thereof an ActRIlb antagonist.
           In one specific embodiment, the present invention relates to methods and compounds
   for reducing body weight and/or reducing weight gain in an animal, and more particularly, for
 5 treating or ameliorating obesity in patients at risk for or suffering from obesity. In another
   specific embodiment, the present invention is directed to methods and compounds for treating
   an animal that is unable to gain or retain weight (e.g., an animal with a wasting syndrome).
   Such methods are effective to increase body weight and/or mass, or to reduce weight and/or
   mass loss, or to improve conditions associated with or caused by undesirably low (e.g.,
 ) unhealthy) body weight and/or mass.
   7.      Dosin
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure provides methods for dosing a patient with an
   ActRIlb polypeptide. Methods of the disclosure include administering an ActRlb protein to
 5 a patient on a dosing schedule that provides an optimal serum concentration of the ActRIIb
   protein that is maintained over a desired time period. A patient may be dosed on a schedule
   that involves a desired combination of the amount of an ActRIIb polypeptide administered to
   the patient as well as the frequency with which the ActRIlb polypeptide is administered to the
   patient. An ActRIIb polypeptide for use in such a dosing schedule may be any of those
 ) disclosed herein, such as a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence selected from
   SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20, or comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%,
   85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98% or 99% identical to an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ
   ID NOs: 2, 3, 13, 17, or 20. An ActRIIb polypeptide may include a functional fragment of a
   natural ActRllb polypeptide, such as one comprising at least 10, 20 or 30 amino acids of a
5  sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1-3 or a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, lacking the C
   terminal 10 to 15 amino acids (the "tail"). In certain embodiments the ActRIlb polypeptide
   comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98% or 99%
   identity to a portion of ActRIlb, wherein the N-terminus of the ActRIIb polypeptide
   corresponds to an amino acid residue selected from amino acids 19-25 of SEQ ID NO: I and
0  the C-terminus of the ActRIlb polypeptide corresponds to an amino acid residue selected
   from amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In preferred embodiments, the ActRIIb
   polypeptide is an ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein disclosed herein.
                                                     -55-

           A patient may be dosed so as to achieve an optimal serum concentration of the
   ActRIIb polypeptide. An optimal serum concentration may be, for example, a serum
   concentration that is sufficient to promote a desired biological effect in vivo. Such biological
   effects include any of therapeutic effects disclosed herein, including promoting bone growth,
 5 increasing bone density, treating or preventing a disorder associated with low bone density,
   treating neuromuscular disorders, adipose tissue disorders, metabolic disorders,
   neurodegenerative disorders, muscle wasting disorders, or cancer.
           As disclosed herein, ActRIlb polypeptides of the disclosure demonstrate consistent
   biological efficacy when patients reach and maintain an ActRllb polypeptide serum
 ) concentration of at least 10 gg/mL. Therefore, in certain embodiments, a patient may be
   administered an ActRIlb polypeptide on a dosing schedule that maintains an ActRlIb serum
   concentration of at least 8 pg/mL, 10 pg/mL, 12.5 pg/mL, 15 gg/mL, 20 Pg/mL, 25 fig/mL,
   30 gg/mL, 35 gg/mL, 40 sg/mL, 50 sg/mL, or at least 70 sg/mL. In certain embodiments, it
   may be desirable to maintain the serum concentration of the ActRIlh polypeptide within an
 5 optimal range, such as, for example, within a range of from about 8 jig/mL to about 100
    4g/mL (e.g., 8-100 Mg/mL, 8-70 pg/mL, 8-50 pg/mL, 8-40 gg/mL, 8-35 gg/mL, 8-30 gg/mL,
   8-25 gg/mL, 8-20 gg/mL, 8-15 gg/mL, 8-12.5 jtg/mL, 8-10 jvg/mL, 10-100 jig/mL, 10-70
   gg/mL, 10-50 pg/mL, 10-40 Itg/mL, 10-35 gg/mL, 10-30 gg/mL, 10-25 pg/mL, 10-20
   gg/mL, 10-15 pg/mL, 10-12.5 gg/mL, 12-100 gg/mL, 12-70 gg/mL, 12-50 pg/mL, 12-40
 S gg/mL, 12-35 fig/mL, 12-30 tg/mL, 12-25 gg/mL, 12-20 ptg/mL, 12-15 pg/mL, 15-100
   gg/mL, 15-70 pg/mL, 15-50 ftg/mL, 15-40 gg/mL, 15-35 [g/mL, 15-30 pig/mL, 15-25
   gg/mL, 15-20 gg/mL, 20-70 gg/mL, 20-50 gg/mL, 20-35 Ig/mL, or 20-30 pg/mL).
           In certain embodiments, dosing schedules of the disclosure include administering an
   ActRIIb polypeptide in an amount and at an interval sufficient to maintain a desired serum
5  concentration of the ActRllb protein for a desired time period. The desirable duration for
   maintaining a desired ActRIlb serum concentration in a patient will depend on the desired
   biological effect (e.g., treatment of a bone disorder). For example, a patient may be
   administered an ActRIlh protein in an amount and at an interval sufficient to maintain the
   desired serum concentration over the course of about a week to a year or more (e.g., maintain
0  the desired serum concentration over 5 days, 7 days, 10 day, II days, 12 days, 13 days, 14
   days, 15 days, 16 days, 20 days, 25 days, 30 days, one to two weeks, one week to a month,
   two months, four months, six months, a year, or two years or more.) Preferably, a patient is
                                                    -56-

   administered an ActRIb protein in an amount sufficient to maintain the desired serum
   concentration over the course of a therapeutic treatment. In certain embodiments, the dosing
   schedule is sufficient to maintain the desired serum concentration of ActRIb between dosing
   intervals (e.g., between ActRIlb administrations).
 5         As disclosed herein, the biological effects of ActRII polypeptides may be achieved
   with doses of 0.3 mg/kg or greater. Therefore, in certain embodiments, a patient may be
   dosed with about 0.3 to about 15 mg/kg (e.g., 0.3, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 7.0, 10.0,
   12.0, or 15.0 mg/kg) of an ActRIIb polypeptide. In preferred embodiments, a patient is
   administered at least 1.0 mg/kg. In addition, the experiments shown below indicate that the
 ) serum half-life of an ActRlIb-Fc fusion protein is between about 10 and 16 days. Therefore,
   in certain aspects, a patient may be dosed with an ActRIlb protein of the disclosure at least
   once a month (e.g., once every 5-30 days, 10-16 days, 5 days, 7 days, 10 days, 11 days, 12
   days, 13 days, 14 days, 15 days, or 16 days; or on a monthly or a bi-monthly basis).
 5 8.      Pharmaceutical Compositions
           In certain embodiments, ActRIlb antagonists (e.g., ActRIlb polypeptides) of the
   present invention are formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For example, an
   ActRIIb polypeptide can be administered alone or as a component of a pharmaceutical
   formulation (therapeutic composition). The subject compounds may be formulated for
 ) administration in any convenient way for use in human or veterinary medicine.
            In certain embodiments, the therapeutic method of the invention includes
   administering the composition systemically, or locally as an implant or device. When
   administered, the therapeutic composition for use in this invention is in a pyrogen-free,
   physiologically acceptable form. Therapeutically useful agents other than the ActRIIb
5  antagonists which may also optionally be included in the composition as described above,
   may be administered simultaneously or sequentially with the subject compounds (e.g.,
   ActRllb polypeptides) in the methods of the invention.
           Typically, ActRIlb antagonists will be administered parentally, and particularly
   intravenously or subcutaneously. Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral
0  administration may comprise one or more ActRIlb polypeptides in combination with one or
   more pharmaceutically acceptable sterile isotonic aqueous or nonaqueous solutions,
                                                   -57-

   dispersions, suspensions or emulsions, or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into
   sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use, which may contain antioxidants,
   buffers, bacteriostats, solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the
   intended recipient or suspending or thickening agents. Examples of suitable aqueous and
 5 nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the
   invention include water, ethanol, polyols (such as glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene
   glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof, vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and
   injectable organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained, for
   example, by the use of coating materials, such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required
 ) particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use of surfactants.
            Further, the composition may be encapsulated or injected in a form for delivery to a
   target tissue site (e.g., bone or muscle). In certain embodiments, compositions of the present
   invention may include a matrix capable of delivering one or more therapeutic compounds
   (e.g., ActRIb polypeptides) to a target tissue site (e.g., bone or muscle), providing a structure
 5 for the developing tissue and optimally capable of being resorbed into the body. For
   example, the matrix may provide slow release of the ActRIlb polypeptides. Such matrices
   may be formed of materials presently in use for other implanted medical applications.
            The choice of matrix material is based on biocompatibility, biodegradability,
   mechanical properties, cosmetic appearance and interface properties. The particular
 ) application of the subject compositions will define the appropriate formulation. Potential
   matrices for the compositions may be biodegradable and chemically defined calcium sulfate,
   tricalciumphosphate, hydroxyapatite, polylactic acid and polyanhydrides. Other potential
   materials are biodegradable and biologically well defined, such as bone or dermal collagen.
   Further matrices are comprised of pure proteins or extracellular matrix components. Other
5  potential matrices are non-biodegradable and chemically defined, such as sintered
   hydroxyapatite, bioglass, aluminates, or other ceramics. Matrices may be comprised of
   combinations of any of the above mentioned types of material, such as polylactic acid and
   hydroxyapatite or collagen and tricalciumphosphate. The bioceramics may be altered in
   composition, such as in calcium-aluminate-phosphate and processing to alter pore size,
0  particle size, particle shape, and biodegradability.
            In certain embodiments, methods of the invention can be administered for orally, e.g.,
   in the form of capsules, cachets, pills, tablets, lozenges (using a flavored basis, usually
                                                      -58-

   sucrose and acacia or tragacanth), powders, granules, or as a solution or a suspension in an
   aqueous or non-aqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as an
   elixir or syrup, or as pastilles (using an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and
   acacia) and/or as mouth washes and the like, each containing a predetermined amount of an
 5 agent as an active ingredient. An agent may also be administered as a bolus, electuary or
   paste.
            In solid dosage forms for oral administration (capsules, tablets, pills, dragees,
   powders, granules, and the like), one or more therapeutic compounds of the present invention
   may be mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate
 ) or dicalcium phosphate, and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches,
   lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example,
   carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, and/or acacia; (3)
   humectants, such as glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate,
   potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate; (5) solution
 5 retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium
   compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as, for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol
   monostearate; (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such a talc,
   calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and
   mixtures thereof; and (10) coloring agents. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the
 ) pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a
   similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using
   such excipients as lactose or milk sugars, as well as high molecular weight polyethylene
   glycols and the like.
            Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
5  emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the
   active ingredient, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the
   art, such as water or other solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers, such as ethyl alcohol,
   isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene
   glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive,
0  castor, and sesame oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid
   esters of sorbitan, and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also
                                                      -59-

   include adjuvants such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening,
   flavoring, coloring, perfuming, and preservative agents.
            Suspensions, in addition to the active compounds, may contain suspending agents
   such as ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol, and sorbitan esters,
 5 microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and tragacanth,
   and mixtures thereof
            The compositions of the invention may also contain adjuvants, such as preservatives,
   wetting agents, emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of
   microorganisms may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal
 ) agents, for example, paraben, chlorobutanol, phenol sorbic acid, and the [ike. It may also be
   desirable to include isotonic agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like into the
   compositions. In addition, prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may
   be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption, such as aluminum
   monostearate and gelatin.
 5          It is understood that the dosage regimen will be determined by the attending physician
   considering various factors which modify the action of the subject compounds of the
   invention (e.g., ActRIlb antagonists). The various factors include, but are not limited to,
   amount of bone weight desired to be formed, the degree of bone density loss, the site of bone
   damage, the condition of the damaged bone, the patient's age, sex, and diet, the severity of
 ) any disease that may be contributing to bone loss, time of administration, and other clinical
   factors. Optionally, the dosage may vary with the type of matrix used in the reconstitution
   and the types of compounds in the composition. The addition of other known growth factors
   to the final composition, may also affect the dosage. Progress can be monitored by periodic
   assessment of bone growth and/or repair, for example, X-rays (including DEXA),
5  histomorphometric determinations, and tetracycline labeling.
            Experiments shown below demonstrate the effects of ActRlIb-Fc on bone may be
   achieved with a single dose of 1 mg/kg or greater. The observed serum half-life of the
   molecule is between about 10 and 16 days. Thus a sustained effective serum level may be
   achieved, for example, by dosing with about 0.5 to 5 mg/kg on a weekly or biweekly basis.
0  For example, doses of 0.3, 0.5, 1, 2, 3 or 5 mg/kg, or values in between, might be used once
   every 7 days, once every 10 days, once every 15 days, or on a monthly or bimonthly basis.
   Other exemplary dosing regimens are provided above.
                                                    -60-

            In certain embodiments, the present invention also provides gene therapy for the in
   vivo production of ActRIlb polypeptides. Such therapy would achieve its therapeutic effect
   by introduction of the ActRIIb polynucleotide sequences into cells or tissues having the
   disorders as listed above. Delivery of ActRIIb polynucleotide sequences can be achieved
 5 using a recombinant expression vector such as a chimeric virus or a colloidal dispersion
   system. Preferred for therapeutic delivery of ActRIlb polynucleotide sequences is the use of
   targeted liposomes.
            Various viral vectors which can be utilized for gene therapy as taught herein include
   adenovirus, herpes virus, vaccinia, or, preferably, an RNA virus such as a retrovirus.
 ) Preferably, the retroviral vector is a derivative of a murine or avian retrovirus. Examples of
   retroviral vectors in which a single foreign gene can be inserted include, but are not limited
   to: Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMuLV), Harvey murine sarcoma virus (HaMuSV),
   murine mammary tumor virus (MuMTV), and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV). A number of
   additional retroviral vectors can incorporate multiple genes. All of these vectors can transfer
 5 or incorporate a gene for a selectable marker so that transduced cells can be identified and
   generated. Retroviral vectors can be made target-specific by attaching, for example, a sugar,
   a glycolipid, or a protein. Preferred targeting is accomplished by using an antibody. Those
   of skill in the art will recognize that specific polynucleotide sequences can be inserted into
   the retroviral genome or attached to a viral envelope to allow target specific delivery of the
 ) retroviral vector containing the ActRlb polynucleotide. In a preferred embodiment, the
   vector is targeted to bone or cartilage.
            Alternatively, tissue culture cells can be directly transfected with plasmids encoding
   the retroviral structural genes gag, pol and env, by conventional calcium phosphate
   transfection. These cells are then transfected with the vector plasmid containing the genes of
5  interest. The resulting cells release the retroviral vector into the culture medium.
            Another targeted delivery system for ActRIlb polynucleotides is a colloidal dispersion
   system. Colloidal dispersion systems include macromolecule complexes, nanocapsules,
   microspheres, beads, and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water emulsions, micelles,
   mixed micelles, and liposomes. The preferred colloidal system of this invention is a
0  liposome. Liposomes are artificial membrane vesicles which are useful as delivery vehicles
   in vitro and in vivo. RNA, DNA and intact virions can be encapsulated within the aqueous
   interior and be delivered to cells in a biologically active form (see e.g., Fraley, et al., Trends
                                                      -61 -

   Biochem. Sci., 6:77, 1981). Methods for efficient gene transfer using a liposome vehicle, are
   known in the art, see e.g., Mannino, et al., Biotechniques, 6:682, 1988. The composition of
   the liposome is usually a combination of phospholipids, usually in combination with steroids,
   especially cholesterol. Other phospholipids or other lipids may also be used. The physical
 5 characteristics of liposomes depend on pH, ionic strength, and the presence of divalent
   cations.
            Examples of lipids useful in liposomes production include phosphatidyl compounds,
   such as phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine,
   phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingolipids, cerebrosides, and gangliosides. Illustrative
 ) phospholipids include egg phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, and
   distearoylphosphatidylcholine. The targeting of liposomes is also possible based on, for
   example, organ-specificity, cell-specificity, and organelle-specificity and is known in the art.
   EXEMPLIFICATION
 5          The invention now being generally described, it will be more readily understood by
   reference to the following examples, which are included merely for purposes of illustration of
   certain embodiments and embodiments of the present invention, and are not intended to limit
   the invention.
   Example 1: ActRlb-Fc Fusion Proteins.
 )          Applicants constructed a soluble ActRIIb fusion protein that has the extracellular
   domain of human ActRIIb fused to a human or mouse Fe domain with a minimal linker (three
   glycine amino acids) in between. The constructs are referred to as ActRIlb-hFc and ActRIlb
   mFc, respectively.
            ActRIb-hFc is shown below as purified from CHO cell lines (SEQ ID NO: 13)
5  GRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVKK
   GCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPT
   APTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVK
   FNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEOYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHODWLNGKEYKCKVSNKAL
   PVPIEKTISKAKGOPREPOVYTLPPSREEMTKNOVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGO
0  PENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWOOGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTOKSLS
   LSPGK
                                                    -62-

            The ActRIb-hFc and ActRIlb-mFc proteins were expressed in CHO cell lines. Three
   different leader sequences were considered:
   (i) Honey bee mellitin (HBML): MKFLVNVALVFMVVYISYIYA (SEQ ID NO: 14)
   (ii) Tissue Plasminogen Activator (TPA): MDAMKRGLCCVLLLCGAVFVSP (SEQ ID
 5 NO: 15)
   (iii) Native: MGAAAKLAFAVFLISCSSGA (SEQ ID NO: 16).
            The selected form employs the TPA leader and has the following unprocessed amino
   acid sequence:
   MDAMKRGLCCVLLLCGAVFVSPGASGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCE
 ) GEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVKKGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCE
   GNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKD
   TLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSV
   LTVLHODWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPVPIEKTISKAKGOPREPOVYTLPPSREEMTKNO
   VSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGOPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWOO
 5 GNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTOKSLSLSPGK (SEQ ID NO: 17)
            This polypeptide is encoded by the following nucleic acid sequence (SEQ ID NO: 18):
              A TGGATGCAAT GAAGAGAGGG CTCTGCTGTG TGCTGCTGCT GTGTGGAGCA GTCTTCGTTT
              CGCCCGGCGC CTCTGGGCGT GGGGAGGCTG AGACACGGGA GTGCATCTAC TACAACGCCA
              ACTGGGAGCT GGAGCGCACC AACCAGAGCG GCCTGGAGCG CTGCGAAGGC GAGCAGGACA
 )            AGCGGCTGCA CTGCTACGCC TCCTGGCGCA ACAGCTCTGG CACCATCGAG CTCGTGAAGA
              AGGGCTGCTG GCTAGATGAC TTCAACTGCT ACGATAGGCA GGAGTGTGTG GCCACTGAGG
              AGAACCCCCA GGTGTACTTC TGCTGCTGTG AAGGCAACTT CTGCAACGAG CGCTTCACTC
              ATTTGCCAGA GGCTGGGGGC CCGGAAGTCA CGTACGAGCC ACCCCCGACA GCCCCCACCG
              GTGGTGGAAC TCACACATGC CCACCGTGCC CAGCACCTGA ACTCCTGGGG GGACCGTCAG
 5             TCTTCCTCTT CCCCCCAAAA CCCAAGGACA CCCTCATGAT CTCCCGGACC CCTGAGGTCA
              CATGCGTGGT GGTGGACGTG AGCCACGAAG ACCCTGAGGT CAAGTTCAAC TGGTACGTGG
              ACGGCGTGGA GGTGCATAAT GCCAAGACAA AGCCGCGGGA GGAGCAGTAC AACAGCACGT
              ACCGTGTGGT CAGCGTCCTC ACCGTCCTGC ACCAGGACTG GCTGAATGGC AAGGAGTACA
              AGTGCAAGGT CTCCAACAAA GCCCTCCCAG TCCCCATCGA GAAAACCATC TCCAAAGCCA
0             AAGGGCAGCC CCGAGAACCA CAGGTGTACA CCCTGCCCCC ATCCCGGGAG GAGATGACCA
              AGAACCAGGT CAGCCTGACC TGCCTGGTCA AAGGCTTCTA TCCCAGCGAC ATCGCCGTGG
              AGTGGGAGAG CAATGGGCAG CCGGAGAACA ACTACAAGAC CACGCCTCCC GTGCTGGACT
              CCGACGGCTC CTTCTTCCTC TATAGCAAGC TCACCGTGGA CAAGAGCAGG TGGCAGCAGG
              GGAACGTCTT CTCATGCTCC GTGATGCATG AGGCTCTGCA CAACCACTAC ACGCAGAAGA
5             GCCTCTCCCT GTCTCCGGGT AAATGA
            N-terminal sequencing of the CHO-cell produced material revealed a major sequence
   of -GRGEAE (SEQ ID NO: 19). Notably, other constructs reported in the literature begin
   with an -SGR... sequence.
                                                   -63-

           Purification could be achieved by a series of column chromatography steps, including,
   for example, three or more of the following, in any order: protein A chromatography,    Q
   sepharose chromatography, phenylsepharose chromatography, size exclusion
   chromatography, and cation exchange chromatography. The purification could be completed
 5 with viral filtration and buffer exchange.
           ActRlIb-Fc fusion proteins were also expressed in HEK293 cells and COS cells.
   Although material from all cell lines and reasonable culture conditions provided protein with
   muscle-building activity in vivo, variability in potency was observed perhaps relating to cell
   line selection and/or culture conditions. Purification was achieved as described in the
 ) specification above.
   Example 2: Generation of ActRIlb-Fc Mutants.
           Applicants generated a series of mutations in the extracellular domain of ActRllb and
   produced these mutant proteins as soluble fusion proteins between extracellular ActR~lb and
 5 an Fe domain. The background ActRllb-Fc fusion has the sequence (Fc portion
   underlined)(SEQ ID NO:20):
   SGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVK
   KGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPP
   TAPTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEV
 ) KFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEOYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHODWLNGKEYKCKVSNKA
   LPVPIEKTISKAKGOPREPOVYTLPPSREEMTKNOVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNG
   OPENNYKTTPPVLDSDOSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWOOGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTOKSL
   SLSPGK
           Various mutations, including N- and C-terminal truncations, were introduced into the
5  background ActRIlb-Fc protein. Based on the data presented in Example 1, it is expected
   that these constructs, if expressed with a TPA leader, will lack the N-terminal serine.
   Mutations were generated in ActRllb extracellular domain by PCR mutagenesis. After PCR,
   fragments were purified through a Qiagen column, digested with SfoI and Agel and gel
   purified. These fragments were ligated into expression vector pAID4 (see W02006/0 12627)
0  such that upon ligation it created fusion chimera with human IgG1. Upon transformation into
   E. coli DH5 alpha, colonies were picked and DNAs were isolated. For murine constructs
                                                    -64-

   (mFc), a marine IgG2a was substituted for the human IgG 1. All mutants were sequence
   verified.
           All of the mutants were produced in HEK293T cells by transient transfection. In
   summary, in a 500m] spinner, HEK293T cells were set up at 6x10 5 cells/ml in Freestyle
 5 (Invitrogen) media in 250ml volume and grown overnight. Next day, these cells were treated
   with DNA:PEI (1:1) complex at 0.5 ug/ml final DNA concentration. After 4 hrs, 250 ml
   media was added and cells were grown for 7 days. Conditioned media was harvested by
   spinning down the cells and concentrated.
           Mutants were purified using a variety of techniques, including, for example, protein A
 ) column and eluted with low pH (3.0) glycine buffer . After neutralization, these were
   dialyzed against PBS.
           Mutants were also produced in CHO cells by similar methodology.
           Mutants were tested in binding assays and/or bioassays described below. In some
   instances, assays were performed with conditioned medium rather than purified proteins.
   Example 3. Bioassay for GDF-11 and Activin-mediated signaling.
           An A-204 Reporter Gene Assay was used to evaluate the effects of ActRllb-Fc
   proteins on signaling by GDF-11 and Activin A. Cell line: Human Rhabdomyosarcoma
   (derived from muscle). Reporter vector: pGL3(CAGA)12 (Described in Dennler et at, 1998,
   EMBO 17: 3091-3 100.) See Figure 1. The CAGA12 motif is present in TGF-Beta
   responsive genes ( PAL-I gene) , so this vector is of general use for factors signaling through
   Smad2 and 3.
           Day 1: Split A-204 cells into 48-well plate.
           Day 2: A-204 cells transfected with 10 ug pGL3(CAGA)12 or pGL3(CAGA)12(10
5  ug)+ pRLCMV (1 ug) and Fugene.
           Day 3: Add factors (diluted into medium+ 0.1 % BSA). Inhibitors need to be
   preincubated with Factors for 1 hr before adding to cells. 6 hrs later, cells rinsed with PBS,
   and lyse cells.
                                                  -65-

           This is followed by a Luciferase assay. In the absence of any inhibitors, Activin A
   showed 10 fold stimulation of reporter gene expression and an ED50 ~ 2 ng/ml. GDF-11: 16
   fold stimulation, ED50: ~ 1.5 ng/ml.
   ActRIIb(R64, 20-134) is a potent inhibitor of activin, GDF-8 and GDF-l I activity in this
 5 assay. Variants were tested in this assay as well.
   Example 4: Human Clinical Trial, Single Ascending Dose.
           The ActRIlb(20-1 34)-hFc protein described in Example I was administered to human
   patients in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that was conducted to
 ) evaluate, primarily, the safety of the protein in healthy, postmenopausal women. Forty-eight
   subjects were randomized into six cohorts of 8 subjects to receive either a single dose of
   ActRHb-hFc or placebo (6 active:2 placebo). Dose levels ranged from 0.02 to 3.0 mg/kg
   administered subcutaneously (SC). All subjects were followed for 57 days. Subjects were
   excluded from study participation if they took medications affecting bone metabolism within
 5 6 months of study entry. Safety evaluations were conducted following each cohort to
   determine dose escalation. In addition to pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses, the biologic
   activity of ActRLIb-hFc was also assessed by measurement of biochemical markers of bone
   formation and resorption, and FSH levels.
           No serious adverse events were reported in this study.
 )         PK analysis of ActRIb-hFe displayed a linear profile with dose, and a mean half-life
   of approximately 10-16 days (see Figure 2). The area-under-curve (AUC) for ActRIlb-hFc
   was linearly related to dose, and the absorption after SC dosing was essentially complete. At
   higher doses, ActRIIb-hFc caused in increases in lean body mass (LBM) as demonstrated
   using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans (see Figure 3). The mean increase in
5  LBM as compared to baseline was 2.6% (0.92 kg) at two months post dose at 3 mg/kg. The
   placebo treated group decreased by 0.2%. More subjects at the higher doses (1 and 3 mg/kg)
   had at least a 0.5 kg increase in LBM as early as 15 days after dosing with ActRlIb-hFc that
   was sustained until day 57 when compared to placebo and the lower doses (see Figure 4). In
   subjects dosed with ActRHb-hFc at 1 and 3 mg/kg, significant dose-dependent changes were
0  measured in serum biomarkers of fat metabolism (increased adiponectin and decreased
   leptin) (see Figures 5 and 6). ActRIIb-hFc caused a rapid, sustained dose-dependent increase
                                                    -66-

   in serum levels of bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BSAP), which is a marker for anabolic
   bone growth, and a dose-dependent decrease in C-terminal type 1 collagen telopeptide
   (CTX), which is a marker for bone resorption (see Figures 7 and 8). BSAP levels showed
   near saturating effects at the highest dosage of drug, indicating that half-maximal effects on
 5 this anabolic bone biomarker could be achieved at a dosage of 1 mg/kg or lower. These bone
   biomarker changes were sustained for approximately 57 days at the highest dose levels tested.
   There was also a dose-dependent decrease in serum FSH levels consistent with inhibition of
   activin (see Figure 9).
           Increases in thigh muscle volume were observed by magnetic resonance imaging
 ) (MRI) at 29 days after single doses of ActRIlb-hFec at I and 3 mg/kg, with a significant
   increase at the highest dose (3 mg/kg) as compared to placebo (see Figure 10). In particular,
   at 29 days after administration of a single dose of 3 mg/kg of ActRIIb-hFc, a 16.4% increase
   in muscle area, an 11.5% increase in muscle volume, and a 2.2% decrease in subcutaneous fat
   was observed. The mean percent change from baseline in thigh muscle volume at day 29
 5 with I and 3 mg/kg dosage levels as compared to placebo is shown in Figure 11.
           A single dose of ActRIlb-hFc given to healthy postmenopausal women was safe and
   well-tolerated for the range of dose levels tested. This clinical trial demonstrates that, in
   humans, ActRfIb-hFc is an osteoanabolic agent with biological evidence of both an increase
   in bone formation and a decrease in bone resorption. ActRIlb-hFc also increases muscle size
 ) and function.
   Example 5: Human Clinical Trial, Multiple Ascending Doses.
           A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multiple-dose, dose-escalating study
   was conducted to evaluate, primarily, the safety, tolerability, PK, and PD effects of ActRIlb
   hFc in healthy postmenopausal women. The study included six cohorts of 10 subjects each.
5  Subjects in each cohort were randomized to receive either ActRIlb-hFc or placebo (8 active
   and 2 placebo subjects per cohort).
           Cohorts were dosed as follows: Cohort 1 (0.1 mg/kg), Cohort 2 (0.3 mg/kg) and
   Cohort 3 (1 mg/kg) received ActRllb-hFc subcutaneously (SC) every 14 days for a total of 3
   doses on Days 1, 15, and 29. Cohort 4 (1 mg/kg), Cohort 5 (2 mg/kg), and Cohort 6 (3
0  mg/kg) received ActRIlb-hFc SC every 28 days for a total of 2 doses on Days I and 29.
                                                    -67-

           The following data were evaluated: adverse events, clinical laboratory tests
   (hematology, chemistry, urinalysis, endocrine function tests, adrenal function tests, ACTH
   stimulation tests), vital signs including supine (after at least 5 minutes) and standing (after 2
   minutes  30 seconds) blood pressure, ECG, echocardiogram (ECHO), physical
 5 examinations, and anti-drug antibodies. Pharmacokinetics: Area under the serum ActRIlb
   hFc concentration curve (AUC), Peak concentration (Cmax), Time to peak concentration
   (Tmax),         Elimination half-life (t] /2), Clearance (Cl/F) and Volume of distribution
   (Vz/F). Pharmacodynamics: FSH, Lean body mass as measured by total body DXA scans,
   Bone mineral density (BMD) as measured by lumbar spine, hip and total body DXA scans,
 ) Muscle size as measured by MRI scans in Cohorts 3-6, and other markers of
   pharmacodynamic effect.
           As shown in Figure 14, serum concentrations of ActR~lb-hFc were related to the dose
   amount and frequency. Notably, the 2 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg doses given every 28 days
   achieved high peak concentrations with marked troughs. The 1 mg/kg dose given every 14
 5 days achieved a rising concentration with smaller troughs. After the second dose, the 1
   mg/kg given every 14 days maintained a mean serum concentration in patients above
   approximately 12 micrograms/mL, while the 2 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg doses given every 28 days
   exhibited troughs to a mean of approximately 8 and 10 micrograms/mL, respectively. As
   shown in Figure 15, the troughs in serum concentration were reflected in effects on FSH.
 ) FSH production is thought to be stimulated by activins, and therefore the use of an activin
   antagonist such as ActRllb-hFc is expected to inhibit FSH production. In fact all doses of
   ActRIlb-hFc exhibited some inhibition of FSH. This is shown by the traces dipping below
   the X-axis in Figure 15. Interestingly, the 1 mg/kg dose given every 14 days exhibited no
   mean diminishment in FSH inhibition during the dosing period, while the 2 mg/kg and 3
5  mg/kg doses given every 28 days did exhibit a substantial increase in FSH production (hence
   a decrease in FSH suppression) that corresponded to the trough in serum concentration
   (roughly, between study days 15 and 36). We conclude that dosing ActRIlb-hFc proteins in a
   manner that allows serum concentration to drop as low as 8 or 10 micrograms/mL causes a
   transient release in the suppression of activin signaling by the drug, and, perhaps a transient
0  release in the suppression of other ligands, such as myostatin or GDF-1 1. Notably, the 1
   mg/kg dose given every 14 days appeared to cause a greater increase in muscle mass, as
   measured by total body lean mass (see Figure 16) than did the less frequent 2 mg/kg and 3
   mg/kg doses. While patients on the 2 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg doses given every 28 days received
                                                     -68-

  a total of 4 or 6 mg/kg of drug during the study, patients on the 1 mg/kg dose given every 14
  days received a total of only 3 mg/kg of drug during the study. Nonetheless, the lower, more
  frequent dose provided an apparent greater effect on muscle mass (exhibited in this study as a
  trend not reaching statistical significance). It is expected that this superior efficacy at a lower
5 dose is due to the more sustained ligand suppression that occurs with the more frequent
  dosing regimen, as shown by the effects on FSH. As a consequence, it is expected that
  dosing regimen that maintain a serum concentration above about 8, 10 or 12 micrograms per
  mL will provide an optimal efficacy for drugs based on the ActRlb-hFec mode of action.
  This conclusion should be applicable to a wide array of ActRlIb-hFc proteins, regardless of
  serum half-life, provided that such proteins have an affinity for activins and myostatin/GDF
  11 that is in the same range as that for wild-type ActRIIb-hFc.
  INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
          All publications and patents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in
5 their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually
  indicated to be incorporated by reference.
          While specific embodiments of the subject matter have been discussed, the above
  specification is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations will become apparent to those
  skilled in the art upon review of this specification and the claims below. The full scope of the
  invention should be determined by reference to the claims, along with their full scope of
  equivalents, and the specification, along with such variations.
                                                     -69-

  We Claim:
   I1.    A method for dosing a patient with an ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein, the method
  comprising administering an ActRllb-Fc fusion protein to the patient on a dosing schedule
  that maintains a serum concentration of the ActRllb-Fc fusion protein of at least 8 ig/mL.
5 2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the serum concentration of the ActRIIb-Fc fusion
  protein is maintained at a concentration of at least 10 gg/mL
  3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the serum concentration of the ActRllb-Fc fusion
  protein is maintained at a concentration of at least 12 gg/mL
  4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the serum concentration of the ActRIlb-Fc fusion
) protein is maintained at a concentration of at least 20 gg/mL
  5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the serum concentration of the ActRIlb-Fc fusion
  protein is maintained at a concentration of between 8-70 ig/mL.
  6.      The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the dosing schedule involves
  administering at least 0.3-5 mg/kg of the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein to the patient.
5 7.      The method of claim 6, wherein the dosing schedule involves administering at least 1
  3 mg/kg of the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein to the patient.
  8.      The method of claim 7, wherein the dosing schedule involves administering 1 mg/kg
  of the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein to the patient.
  9.      The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the dosing schedule involves
) administering the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein to the patient once every 5 to 30 days.
   10.    The method of claim 9, wherein the dosing schedule involves administering the
  ActRlIb-Fc fusion protein to the patient once every 10-16 days.
  11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the dosing schedule involves administering the
  ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein to the patient once every 14 days.
5 12.     The method of claim 1, wherein the dosing schedule involves administering 1 mg/kg
  of the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein to the patient once every 14 days.
   13.    The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the patient is in need of bone growth,
  increased bone density or increased bone strength.
                                                   -70-

   14.     The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the patient is suffering from a bone
   related disorder.
    15.    The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the patient has cancer.
    16.    The method of claim 15, wherein the patient has breast cancer.
 5 17.     The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the patient is suffering from a
   disorder associated with muscle loss of insufficient muscle growth.
    18.    The method of anyone of claims 1-16, wherein the ActRllb-Fc fusion protein is
   selected from the group consisting of:
           a) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to SEQ ID
 3         NO:2,3 or 13;
           b) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 95% identical to SEQ ID
           NO:2, 3 or 13;
           c) a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2, 3 or 13;
           d) a polypeptide comprising at least 50 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 2;
 5 and
           e) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to a
   portion of ActRIlb, wherein the N-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue selected
   from amino acids 19-25 of SEQ ID NO:1 and the C-terminus corresponds to an amino acid
   residue selected from amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO:1;
           f) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 95% identical to a portion
   of ActRIlb, wherein the N-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue selected from
   amino acids 19-25 of SEQ ID NO:1 and the C-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue
   selected from amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO:1; and
           g) a polypeptide comprising a portion of ActRIlb, wherein the N-terminus
5  corresponds to an amino acid residue selected from amino acids 19-25 of SEQ ID NO:1 and
   the C-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue selected from amino acids 109-134 of
   SEQ ID NO:1.
   19.     The method of anyone of claims 1-18, wherein the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein has one
   or more of the following characteristics:
0                    binds to an ActRIIb ligand with a KD of at least 10- M; and
                                                   -71-

                    inhibits ActRIIb signaling in a cell.
  20.     The method of anyone of claims 1-19, wherein said ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein
  includes one or more modified amino acid residues selected from: a glycosylated amino acid,
  a PEGylated amino acid, a farnesylated amino acid, an acetylated amino acid, a biotinylated
5 amino acid, an amino acid conjugated to a lipid moiety, and an amino acid conjugated to an
  organic derivatizing agent.
  21.     The method of any one of claims 1-20, wherein the ActRllb-Fc fusion protein
  comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 90% identical to the amino acid sequence of
  SEQ ID NO:3.
) 22.     The method of claim 21, wherein the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein comprises an amino
  acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:3.
  23.     The method of claim 22, wherein the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein comprises the amino
  acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:3.
  24.     The method of claim 23, wherein the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein comprises the amino
5 acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2.
  25.     The method of any one of claims 1-24, wherein the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein has a
  serum half-life of between 10 and 16 days in normal, healthy humans.
  26.     A method for dosing a patient with an ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein comprising dosing
  the patient with 0.3 to 5 mg/kg of ActRIIb-Fc once every 5 to 30 days.
) 27.     The method of claim 26, wherein the patient is dosed with 1-3 mg/kg ActRllb.
  28.     The method of claim 26-27, wherein the patient is dosed with ActRIlb every 10-16
  days.
  29.     The method of claims 26-28, wherein the patient is in need of bone growth, increased
  bone density or increased bone strength.
5 30.     The method of any one of claims 26-29, wherein the patient is suffering from a bone
  related disorder.
  31.     The method of any one of claims 26-28, wherein the patient has cancer.
  32.     The method of claim 31, wherein the patient has breast cancer.
                                                   -72-

  33.     The method of any one of claims 26-28, wherein the patient is suffering from a
  disorder associated with muscle loss or insufficient muscle growth.
  34.     A method for (i) promoting anabolic bone growth, or (ii) treating a bone tumor,
  comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of an ActRllb-Fc fusion protein.
5 35.     The method of claim 34, wherein the patient is suffering from multiple myeloma.
  36.     The method of claim 34, wherein the patient is suffering from a cancer that has
  metastasized to the bone.
  37.     The method of any one of claims 26-36, wherein the ActRllb-Fc fusion protein is
  selected from the group consisting of:
          a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to SEQ ID
          NO:2, 3 or 13;
          a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 95% identical to SEQ ID
          NO:2, 3 or 13;
          a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2, 3 or 13;
5         a polypeptide comprising at least 50 consecutive amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 2;
          a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to a portion
  of ActRllb, wherein the N-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue selected from
  amino acids 19-25 of SEQ ID NO:1 and the C-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue
  selected from amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO:1;
          a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 95% identical to a portion
  of ActRIIb, wherein the N-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue selected from
  amino acids 19-25 of SEQ ID NO:1 and the C-terminus corresponds to an amino acid residue
  selected from amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID NO:1;and
          a polypeptide comprising a portion of ActRIb, wherein the N-terminus corresponds
5 to an amino acid residue selected from amino acids 19-25 of SEQ ID NO:I and the C
  terminus corresponds to an atmino acid residue selected from amino acids 109-134 of SEQ ID
  NO:1.
  38.     The method of any one of claims 26-37, wherein the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein has
  one or more of the following characteristics:
                                                 -73-

                   binds to an ActRlIb ligand with a KD of at least 10- M; and
                   inhibits ActRIlb signaling in a cell.
  39.     The method of any one of claims 26-38, wherein said ActRlIb-Fc fusion protein
  includes one or more modified amino acid residues selected from: a glycosylated amino acid,
5 a PEGylated amino acid, a farnesylated amino acid, an acetylated amino acid, a biotinylated
  amino acid, an amino acid conjugated to a lipid moiety, and an amino acid conjugated to an
  organic derivatizing agent.
  40.     The method of any one of claims 26-39, wherein the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein
  comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 90% identical to the amino acid sequence of
I SEQ ID NO:3.
  41.     The method of claim 40, wherein the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein comprises an amino
  acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:3.
  42.     The method of claim 41, wherein the ActRIIb-Fc fusion protein comprises the amino
  acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:3.
5 43.     The method of claim 42, wherein the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein comprises the amino
  acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2.
  44.     The method of any one of claims 34-43, wherein the ActRllb-Fc fusion protein has a
  serum half-life of between 10 and 16 days in normal, healthy humans.
  45.     The method of any one of claims 34-44, wherein the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein is
) administered to the patient no more frequently than once per week.
  46.     The method of any one of claims 34-45, wherein the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein is
  administered to the patient no more frequently than once every two weeks.
  47.     The method of any one of claims 34-46, wherein the ActRllb-Fc fusion protein is
  administered to the patient every 10-16 days.
5 48.     The method of any one of claims 34-47, wherein the ActRIlb-Fc fusion protein is
  administered to the patient every 10 days.
  49.     The method of any one of claims 1-48, wherein the ActRllb-Fc fusion protein inhibits
  bone resorption.
                                                   -74-

  50.     The method of any one of claims 1-49, wherein the patient further receives an anti
  resorptive agent.
  51.     The method of claim 50, wherein the anti-resorptive agent is a bisphosphonate agent.
  52.     The method of claim 50, wherein the anti-resorptive agent is a RANK ligand
5 antagonist or osteoprotegrin antagonist.
                                                -75-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                        503460072_1
<removed-date>
                                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> ACCELERON PHARMA I NC.
              <120> ACTRI I B ANTAGONI STS AND DOSI NG AND USES THEREOF
              <130> PHPH- 053- WO1
              <140> PCT/ US2010/ 048322
              <141> 2010- 09- 09
              <150> 61/ 276, 287
<removed-apn>
              <151> 2009- 09- 09
              <160> 35
              <170> Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   512
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 1
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Val Al a Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu Tr p
              1                 5                      10                    15
              Pr o Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r
                            20                       25                      30
              As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g
                        35                      40                     45
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Al a
                   50                       55                      60
              As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p
              65                    70                      75                      80
              As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n
                                 85                       90                     95
              Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o
                      115                     120                     125
              Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r Ser Leu Leu
                   130                    135                 140
              Pr o I l e Gl y Gl y Leu Ser Leu I l e Val Leu Leu Al a Phe Tr p Met Ty r
              145                      150                   155                   160
              Ar g Hi s Ar g Ly s Pr o Pr o Ty r Gl y Hi s Val As p I l e Hi s Gl u As p Pr o
                                  165                      170                      175
                                                            Page 1

                                                       503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Gl y Pr o Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Pr o Leu Val Gl y Leu Ly s Pr o Leu Gl n Leu
                             180                    185                    190
              Leu Gl u I l e Ly s Al a Ar g Gl y Ar g Phe Gl y Cy s Val Tr p Ly s Al a Gl n
                       195                       200                    205
              Leu Met As n As p Phe Val Al a Val Ly s I l e Phe Pr o Leu Gl n As p Ly s
                  210                   215                     220
<removed-apn>
              Gl n Ser Tr p Gl n Ser Gl u Ar g Gl u I l e Phe Ser Thr Pr o Gl y Met Ly s
              225                    230                      235                   240
              Hi s Gl u As n Leu Leu Gl n Phe I l e Al a Al a Gl u Ly s Ar g Gl y Ser As n
                                 245                     250                      255
              Leu Gl u Val Gl u Leu Tr p Leu I l e Thr Al a Phe Hi s As p Ly s Gl y Ser
                           260                     265                    270
              Leu Thr As p Ty r Leu Ly s Gl y As n I l e I l e Thr Tr p As n Gl u Leu Cy s
                      275                     280                       285
              Hi s Val Al a Gl u Thr Met Ser Ar g Gl y Leu Ser Ty r Leu Hi s Gl u As p
                   290                   295                   300
              Val Pr o Tr p Cy s Ar g Gl y Gl u Gl y Hi s Ly s Pr o Ser I l e Al a Hi s Ar g
              305                     310                      315                      320
              As p Phe Ly s Ser Ly s As n Val Leu Leu Ly s Ser As p Leu Thr Al a Val
                                325                   330                   335
              Leu Al a As p Phe Gl y Leu Al a Val Ar g Phe Gl u Pr o Gl y Ly s Pr o Pr o
                            340                   345                     350
              Gl y As p Thr Hi s Gl y Gl n Val Gl y Thr Ar g Ar g Ty r Met Al a Pr o Gl u
                        355                    360                     365
              Val Leu Gl u Gl y Al a I l e As n Phe Gl n Ar g As p Al a Phe Leu Ar g I l e
                  370                      375                     380
              As p Met Ty r Al a Met Gl y Leu Val Leu Tr p Gl u Leu Val Ser Ar g Cy s
              385                    390                   395                   400
              Ly s Al a Al a As p Gl y Pr o Val As p Gl u Ty r Met Leu Pr o Phe Gl u Gl u
                                  405                     410                   415
              Gl u I l e Gl y Gl n Hi s Pr o Ser Leu Gl u Gl u Leu Gl n Gl u Val Val Val
                              420                    425                     430
              Hi s Ly s Ly s Met Ar g Pr o Thr I l e Ly s As p Hi s Tr p Leu Ly s Hi s Pr o
                        435                    440                       445
                                                           Page 2

                                                       503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Gl y Leu Al a Gl n Leu Cy s Val Thr I l e Gl u Gl u Cy s Tr p As p Hi s As p
                   450                    455                     460
              Al a Gl u Al a Ar g Leu Ser Al a Gl y Cy s Val Gl u Gl u Ar g Val Ser Leu
              465                     470                    475                    480
              I l e Ar g Ar g Ser Val As n Gl y Thr Thr Ser As p Cy s Leu Val Ser Leu
                                  485                   490                   495
<removed-apn>
              Val Thr Ser Val Thr As n Val As p Leu Pr o Pr o Ly s Gl u Ser Ser I l e
                          500                   505                     510
              <210>   2
              <211>   115
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 2
              Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n
              1                   5                       10                        15
              Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y
                            20                      25                     30
              Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Al a As n Ser Ser
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n
                   50                     55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val
              65                       70                     75                       80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s
                                 85                      90                      95
              Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                            100                      105                    110
              Al a Pr o Thr
                        115
              <210>   3
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 3
              Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n
              1                   5                       10                        15
              Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y
                            20                      25                     30
                                                            Page 3

                                                         503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Al a As n Ser Ser
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n
                   50                     55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val
              65                       70                     75                       80
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s
                                 85                      90                      95
              Leu Pr o Gl u Al a
                            100
              <210>    4
              <211>    1539
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400> 4
              at gac ggc gc c c t gggt ggc c c t c gc c c t c c t c t ggggat c gc t gt ggc c c ggc t c t ggg           60
              c gt ggggagg c t gagac ac g ggagt gc at c t ac t ac aac g c c aac t ggga gc t ggagc gc                  120
              ac c aac c aga gc ggc c t gga gc gc t gc gaa ggc gagc agg ac aagc ggc t gc ac t gc t ac                 180
              gc c t c c t ggg c c aac agc t c t ggc ac c at c gagc t c gt ga agaagggc t g c t ggc t agat             240
              gac t t c aac t gc t ac gat ag gc aggagt gt gt ggc c ac t g aggagaac c c c c aggt gt ac                 300
              t t c t gc t gc t gt gaaggc aa c t t c t gc aac gagc gc t t c a c t c at t t gc c agaggc t ggg          360
              ggc c c ggaag t c ac gt ac ga gc c ac c c c c g ac agc c c c c a c c c t gc t c ac ggt gc t ggc c       420
              t ac t c ac t gc t gc c c at c gg gggc c t t t c c c t c at c gt c c t gc t ggc c t t t t ggat gt ac    480
              c ggc at c gc a agc c c c c c t a c ggt c at gt g gac at c c at g aggac c c t gg gc c t c c ac c a      540
              c c at c c c c t c t ggt gggc c t gaagc c ac t g c agc t gc t gg agat c aaggc t c gggggc gc             600
              t t t ggc t gt g t c t ggaaggc c c agc t c at g aat gac t t t g t agc t gt c aa gat c t t c c c a       660
              c t c c aggac a agc agt c gt g gc agagt gaa c gggagat c t t c agc ac ac c t ggc at gaag                 720
              c ac gagaac c t gc t ac agt t c at t gc t gc c gagaagc gag gc t c c aac c t c gaagt agag                780
              c t gt ggc t c a t c ac ggc c t t c c at gac aag ggc t c c c t c a c ggat t ac c t c aaggggaac          840
              at c at c ac at ggaac gaac t gt gt c at gt a gc agagac ga t gt c ac gagg c c t c t c at ac              900
              c t gc at gagg at gt gc c c t g gt gc c gt ggc gagggc c ac a agc c gt c t at t gc c c ac agg            960
              gac t t t aaaa gt aagaat gt at t gc t gaag agc gac c t c a c agc c gt gc t ggc t gac t t t             1020
              ggc t t ggc t g t t c gat t t ga gc c agggaaa c c t c c agggg ac ac c c ac gg ac aggt aggc             1080
              ac gagac ggt ac at ggc t c c t gaggt gc t c gagggagc c a t c aac t t c c a gagagat gc c                1140
              t t c c t gc gc a t t gac at gt a t gc c at gggg t t ggt gc t gt gggagc t t gt gt c t c gc t gc        1200
              aaggc t gc ag ac ggac c c gt ggat gagt ac at gc t gc c c t t t gaggaaga gat t ggc c ag                 1260
                                                                       Page 4

                                                            503460072_1
<removed-date>
              c ac c c t t c gt t ggaggagc t gc aggaggt g gt ggt gc ac a agaagat gag gc c c ac c at t              1320
              aaagat c ac t ggt t gaaac a c c c gggc c t g gc c c agc t t t gt gt gac c at c gaggagt gc            1380
              t gggac c at g at gc agaggc t c gc t t gt c c gc gggc t gt g t ggaggagc g ggt gt c c c t g           1440
              at t c ggaggt c ggt c aac gg c ac t ac c t c g gac t gt c t c g t t t c c c t ggt gac c t c t gt c   1500
              ac c aat gt gg ac c t gc c c c c t aaagagt c a agc at c t aa                                         1539
              <210>    5
<removed-apn>
              <211>    348
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400> 5
              t c t gggc gt g gggaggc t ga gac ac gggag t gc at c t ac t ac aac gc c aa c t gggagc t g               60
              gagc gc ac c a ac c agagc gg c c t ggagc gc t gc gaaggc g agc aggac aa gc ggc t gc ac                 120
              t gc t ac gc c t c c t gggc c aa c agc t c t ggc ac c at c gagc t c gt gaagaa gggc t gc t gg          180
              c t agat gac t t c aac t gc t a c gat aggc ag gagt gt gt gg c c ac t gagga gaac c c c c ag            240
              gt gt ac t t c t gc t gc t gt ga aggc aac t t c t gc aac gagc gc t t c ac t c a t t t gc c agag       300
              gc t gggggc c c ggaagt c ac gt ac gagc c a c c c c c gac ag c c c c c ac c                            348
              <210>    6
              <211>    225
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 43) . . ( 43)
              <223> As p or Al a
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 100) . . ( 100)
              <223> Ly s or Al a
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 212) . . ( 212)
              <223> As n or Al a
              <400> 6
              Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o
              1                 5                        10                     15
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser
                          20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val Xaa Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p
                       35                     40                  45
                                                                      Page 5

                                                       503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u
                              85                    90                      95
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Ly s Cy s Xaa Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s
                             100                   105                    110
              Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr
                        115                     120                      125
              Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr
                  130                     135                    140
              Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u
              145                    150                    155                      160
              Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu
                                 165                      170                    175
              As p Ser As p Gl y Pr o Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s
                            180                   185                   190
              Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u
                       195                      200                  205
              Al a Leu Hi s Xaa Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y
                   210                    215                   220
              Ly s
              225
              <210>   7
              <211>   343
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 7
              Met Val Ar g Al a Ar g Hi s Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Leu Cy s Leu Leu Leu Leu
              1                 5                        10                    15
              Leu Leu Cy s Gl n Phe Met Gl u As p Ar g Ser Al a Gl n Al a Gl y As n Cy s
                           20                     25                      30
              Tr p Leu Ar g Gl n Al a Ly s As n Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n Val Leu Ty r Ly s Thr
                       35                       40                      45
              Gl u Leu Ser Ly s Gl u Gl u Cy s Cy s Ser Thr Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Thr Ser
                   50                     55                     60
                                                         Page 6

                                                        503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Tr p Thr Gl u Gl u As p Val As n As p As n Thr Leu Phe Ly s Tr p Met I l e
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Phe As n Gl y Gl y Al a Pr o As n Cy s I l e Pr o Cy s Ly s Gl u Thr Cy s Gl u
                                 85                        90                      95
              As n Val As p Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s Ar g Met As n Ly s Ly s As n
                            100                      105                     110
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Pr o Ar g Cy s Val Cy s Al a Pr o As p Cy s Ser As n I l e Thr Tr p Ly s
                        115                     120                     125
              Gl y Pr o Val Cy s Gl y Leu As p Gl y Ly s Thr Ty r Ar g As n Gl u Cy s Al a
                   130                    135                     140
              Leu Leu Ly s Al a Ar g Cy s Ly s Gl u Gl n Pr o Gl u Leu Gl u Val Gl n Ty r
              145                    150                      155                    160
              Gl n Gl y Ar g Cy s Ly s Ly s Thr Cy s Ar g As p Val Phe Cy s Pr o Gl y Ser
                                  165                     170                    175
              Ser Thr Cy s Val Val As p Gl n Thr As n As n Al a Ty r Cy s Val Thr Cy s
                           180                   185                      190
              As n Ar g I l e Cy s Pr o Gl u Pr o Al a Ser Ser Gl u Gl n Ty r Leu Cy s Gl y
                        195                       200                    205
              As n As p Gl y Val Thr Ty r Ser Ser Al a Cy s Hi s Leu Ar g Ly s Al a Thr
                   210                    215                    220
              Cy s Leu Leu Gl y Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Leu Al a Ty r Gl u Gl y Ly s Cy s I l e
              225                    230                     235                      240
              Ly s Al a Ly s Ser Cy s Gl u As p I l e Gl n Cy s Thr Gl y Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s
                                 245                       250                     255
              Leu Tr p As p Phe Ly s Val Gl y Ar g Gl y Ar g Cy s Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl u
                            260                    265                    270
              Leu Cy s Pr o As p Ser Ly s Ser As p Gl u Pr o Val Cy s Al a Ser As p As n
                       275                    280                     285
              Al a Thr Ty r Al a Ser Gl u Cy s Al a Met Ly s Gl u Al a Al a Cy s Ser Ser
                   290                    295                     300
              Gl y Val Leu Leu Gl u Val Ly s Hi s Gl y Ser Cy s As n Ser I l e Ser Gl u
              305                   310                    315                     320
              As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Gl u As p Gl n As p Ty r Ser Phe Pr o
                                 325                      330                     335
                                                           Page 7

                                                        503460072_1
<removed-date>
              I l e Ser Ser I l e Leu Gl u Tr p
                            340
              <210>   8
              <211>   317
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 8
<removed-apn>
              Met Val Ar g Al a Ar g Hi s Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Leu Cy s Leu Leu Leu Leu
              1                 5                        10                    15
              Leu Leu Cy s Gl n Phe Met Gl u As p Ar g Ser Al a Gl n Al a Gl y As n Cy s
                           20                     25                      30
              Tr p Leu Ar g Gl n Al a Ly s As n Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n Val Leu Ty r Ly s Thr
                       35                       40                      45
              Gl u Leu Ser Ly s Gl u Gl u Cy s Cy s Ser Thr Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Thr Ser
                   50                     55                     60
              Tr p Thr Gl u Gl u As p Val As n As p As n Thr Leu Phe Ly s Tr p Met I l e
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Phe As n Gl y Gl y Al a Pr o As n Cy s I l e Pr o Cy s Ly s Gl u Thr Cy s Gl u
                                 85                        90                      95
              As n Val As p Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s Ar g Met As n Ly s Ly s As n
                            100                      105                     110
              Ly s Pr o Ar g Cy s Val Cy s Al a Pr o As p Cy s Ser As n I l e Thr Tr p Ly s
                        115                     120                     125
              Gl y Pr o Val Cy s Gl y Leu As p Gl y Ly s Thr Ty r Ar g As n Gl u Cy s Al a
                   130                    135                     140
              Leu Leu Ly s Al a Ar g Cy s Ly s Gl u Gl n Pr o Gl u Leu Gl u Val Gl n Ty r
              145                    150                      155                    160
              Gl n Gl y Ar g Cy s Ly s Ly s Thr Cy s Ar g As p Val Phe Cy s Pr o Gl y Ser
                                  165                     170                    175
              Ser Thr Cy s Val Val As p Gl n Thr As n As n Al a Ty r Cy s Val Thr Cy s
                           180                   185                      190
              As n Ar g I l e Cy s Pr o Gl u Pr o Al a Ser Ser Gl u Gl n Ty r Leu Cy s Gl y
                        195                       200                    205
              As n As p Gl y Val Thr Ty r Ser Ser Al a Cy s Hi s Leu Ar g Ly s Al a Thr
                   210                    215                    220
                                                           Page 8

                                                       503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Cy s Leu Leu Gl y Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Leu Al a Ty r Gl u Gl y Ly s Cy s I l e
              225                    230                     235                      240
              Ly s Al a Ly s Ser Cy s Gl u As p I l e Gl n Cy s Thr Gl y Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s
                                 245                       250                     255
              Leu Tr p As p Phe Ly s Val Gl y Ar g Gl y Ar g Cy s Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl u
                            260                    265                    270
<removed-apn>
              Leu Cy s Pr o As p Ser Ly s Ser As p Gl u Pr o Val Cy s Al a Ser As p As n
                       275                    280                     285
              Al a Thr Ty r Al a Ser Gl u Cy s Al a Met Ly s Gl u Al a Al a Cy s Ser Ser
                   290                    295                     300
              Gl y Val Leu Leu Gl u Val Ly s Hi s Ser Gl y Ser Cy s As n
              305                   310                    315
              <210>   9
              <211>   63
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 9
              Gl y As n Cy s Tr p Leu Ar g Gl n Al a Ly s As n Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n Val Leu
              1                   5                       10                       15
              Ty r Ly s Thr Gl u Leu Ser Ly s Gl u Gl u Cy s Cy s Ser Thr Gl y Ar g Leu
                            20                     25                     30
              Ser Thr Ser Tr p Thr Gl u Gl u As p Val As n As p As n Thr Leu Phe Ly s
                      35                     40                      45
              Tr p Met I l e Phe As n Gl y Gl y Al a Pr o As n Cy s I l e Pr o Cy s Ly s
                   50                      55                       60
              <210>   10
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 10
              Gl u Thr Cy s Gl u As n Val As p Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s Ar g Met
              1                  5                       10                       15
              As n Ly s Ly s As n Ly s Pr o Ar g Cy s Val
                             20                       25
              <210>   11
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 11
              Ly s Thr Cy s Ar g As p Val Phe Cy s Pr o Gl y Ser Ser Thr Cy s Val Val
              1                  5                      10                    15
                                                         Page 9

                                                        503460072_1
<removed-date>
              As p Gl n Thr As n As n Al a Ty r Cy s Val Thr
                            20                       25
              <210>   12
              <211>   262
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 12
<removed-apn>
              Met Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o Gl y Pr o Leu Tr p Pr o Leu Pr o Tr p Gl y Al a
              1                  5                       10                      15
              Leu Al a Tr p Al a Val Gl y Phe Val Ser Ser Met Gl y Ser Gl y As n Pr o
                            20                    25                   30
              Al a Pr o Gl y Gl y Val Cy s Tr p Leu Gl n Gl n Gl y Gl n Gl u Al a Thr Cy s
                        35                      40                      45
              Ser Leu Val Leu Gl n Thr As p Val Thr Ar g Al a Gl u Cy s Cy s Al a Ser
                  50                   55                     60
              Gl y As n I l e As p Thr Al a Tr p Ser As n Leu Thr Hi s Pr o Gl y As n Ly s
              65                       70                     75                      80
              I l e As n Leu Leu Gl y Phe Leu Gl y Leu Val Hi s Cy s Leu Pr o Cy s Ly s
                                 85                    90                     95
              As p Ser Cy s As p Gl y Val Gl u Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Al a Cy s Ar g Met
                            100                     105                      110
              Leu Gl y Gl y Ar g Pr o Ar g Cy s Gl u Cy s Al a Pr o As p Cy s Ser Gl y Leu
                       115                      120                      125
              Pr o Al a Ar g Leu Gl n Val Cy s Gl y Ser As p Gl y Al a Thr Ty r Ar g As p
                   130                    135                     140
              Gl u Cy s Gl u Leu Ar g Al a Al a Ar g Cy s Ar g Gl y Hi s Pr o As p Leu Ser
              145                     150                      155                     160
              Val Met Ty r Ar g Gl y Ar g Cy s Ar g Ly s Ser Cy s Gl u Hi s Val Val Cy s
                                165                      170                    175
              Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl n Ser Cy s Val Val As p Gl n Thr Gl y Ser Al a Hi s Cy s
                             180                   185                    190
              Val Val Cy s Ar g Al a Al a Pr o Cy s Val Pr o Ser Ser Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u
                      195                      200                   205
              Leu Cy s Gl y As n As n As n Val Thr Ty r I l e Ser Ser Cy s Hi s Met Ar g
                  210                      215                    220
                                                          Page 10

                                                      503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Gl n Al a Thr Cy s Phe Leu Gl y Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Val Ar g Hi s Al a Gl y
              225                    230                     235                     240
              Ser Cy s Al a Gl y Thr Pr o Gl u Gl u Pr o Pr o Gl y Gl y Gl u Ser Al a Gl u
                                 245                     250                     255
              Gl u Gl u Gl u As n Phe Val
                             260
<removed-apn>
              <210>   13
              <211>   343
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 13
              Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n
              1                   5                       10                        15
              Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y
                            20                      25                     30
              Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n
                   50                     55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val
              65                       70                     75                       80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s
                                 85                      90                      95
              Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                            100                      105                    110
              Al a Pr o Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o
                        115                    120                     125
              Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s
                   130                    135                 140
              As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val
              145                    150                    155                  160
              As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p
                                165                     170                     175
              Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r
                            180                     185                     190
                                                         Page 11

                                                           503460072_1
<removed-date>
              As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p
                       195                   200                 205
              Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu
                   210                     215                     220
              Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g
              225                      230                     235                      240
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s
                                 245                    250                    255
              As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p
                            260                  265                    270
              I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s
                         275                    280                      285
              Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser
                  290                   295                    300
              Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser
              305                   310                     315                    320
              Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser
                               325                     330                     335
              Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                          340
              <210>   14
              <211>   21
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Unk nown
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Unk nown: Honey bee mel l i t i n pept i de
              <400> 14
              Met Ly s Phe Leu Val As n Val Al a Leu Val Phe Met Val Val Ty r I l e
              1                5                     10                  15
              Ser Ty r I l e Ty r Al a
                             20
              <210>   15
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Unk nown
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Unk nown: Ti s s ue pl as mi nogen ac t i v at or
                    pept i de
                                                              Page 12

                                                       503460072_1
<removed-date>
              <400> 15
              Met As p Al a Met Ly s Ar g Gl y Leu Cy s Cy s Val Leu Leu Leu Cy s Gl y
              1                 5                       10                   15
              Al a Val Phe Val Ser Pr o
                           20
              <210>   16
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Unk nown
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Unk nown: Nat i v e l eader pept i de
              <400> 16
              Met Gl y Al a Al a Al a Ly s Leu Al a Phe Al a Val Phe Leu I l e Ser Cy s
              1                  5                      10                     15
              Ser Ser Gl y Al a
                           20
              <210>   17
              <211>   368
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 17
              Met As p Al a Met Ly s Ar g Gl y Leu Cy s Cy s Val Leu Leu Leu Cy s Gl y
              1                 5                       10                   15
              Al a Val Phe Val Ser Pr o Gl y Al a Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr
                           20                     25                      30
              Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n
                        35                        40                      45
              Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s
                   50                     55                       60
              Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s
                                  85                     90                       95
              Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y
                           100                      105                    110
              As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o
                       115                     120                    125
                                                               Page 13

                                                       503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr
                   130                    135                     140
              Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
              145                     150                      155                    160
              Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g
                              165                      170                    175
<removed-apn>
              Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o
                            180                  185                   190
              Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a
                       195                     200                    205
              Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val
                   210                     215                     220
              Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r
              225                 230                     235                     240
              Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr
                                 245                    250                      255
              I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu
                             260                      265                     270
              Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s
                        275                    280                    285
              Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser
                  290                    295                      300
              As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p
              305                      310                     315                   320
              Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser
                                325                  330                   335
              Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a
                             340                    345                  350
              Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                       355                     360                  365
              <210>   18
              <211>   1107
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y nuc l eot i de
                                                                Page 14

                                                                   503460072_1
<removed-date>
              <400> 18
              at ggat gc aa t gaagagagg gc t c t gc t gt gt gc t gc t gc t gt gt ggagc agt c t t c gt t                60
              t c gc c c ggc g c c t c t gggc g t ggggaggc t gagac ac ggg agt gc at c t a c t ac aac gc c             120
              aac t gggagc t ggagc gc ac c aac c agagc ggc c t ggagc gc t gc gaagg c gagc aggac                       180
              aagc ggc t gc ac t gc t ac gc c t c c t ggc gc aac agc t c t g gc ac c at c ga gc t c gt gaag           240
              aagggc t gc t ggc t agat ga c t t c aac t gc t ac gat aggc aggagt gt gt ggc c ac t gag                  300
<removed-apn>
              gagaac c c c c aggt gt ac t t c t gc t gc t gt gaaggc aac t t c t gc aac ga gc gc t t c ac t            360
              c at t t gc c ag aggc t ggggg c c c ggaagt c ac gt ac gagc c ac c c c c gac agc c c c c ac c            420
              ggt ggt ggaa c t c ac ac at g c c c ac c gt gc c c agc ac c t g aac t c c t ggg gggac c gt c a          480
              gt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c aaa ac c c aaggac ac c c t c at ga t c t c c c ggac c c c t gaggt c    540
              ac at gc gt gg t ggt ggac gt gagc c ac gaa gac c c t gagg t c aagt t c aa c t ggt ac gt g               600
              gac ggc gt gg aggt gc at aa t gc c aagac a aagc c gc ggg aggagc agt a c aac agc ac g                    660
              t ac c gt gt gg t c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t g c ac c aggac t ggc t gaat gg c aaggagt ac            720
              aagt gc aagg t c t c c aac aa agc c c t c c c a gt c c c c at c g agaaaac c at c t c c aaagc c          780
              aaagggc agc c c c gagaac c ac aggt gt ac ac c c t gc c c c c at c c c ggga ggagat gac c                 840
              aagaac c agg t c agc c t gac c t gc c t ggt c aaaggc t t c t at c c c agc ga c at c gc c gt g           900
              gagt gggaga gc aat gggc a gc c ggagaac aac t ac aaga c c ac gc c t c c c gt gc t ggac                   960
              t c c gac ggc t c c t t c t t c c t c t at agc aag c t c ac c gt gg ac aagagc ag gt ggc agc ag         1020
              gggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc at gaggc t c t gc ac aac c ac t a c ac gc agaag            1080
              agc c t c t c c c t gt c t c c ggg t aaat ga                                                           1107
              <210>    19
              <211>    6
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 19
              Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u
              1                   5
              <210>    20
              <211>    344
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pol y pept i de
              <400> 20
              Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a
              1                  5                       10                        15
                                                                      Page 15

                                                         503460072_1
<removed-date>
              As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u
                             20                     25                     30
              Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser
                        35                      40                      45
              Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe
                  50                      55                      60
<removed-apn>
              As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n
              65                       70                      75                      80
              Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr
                                85                       90                      95
              Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o
                            100                      105                    110
              Thr Al a Pr o Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a
                       115                     120                    125
              Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o
                   130                    135                  140
              Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val
              145                   150                     155                   160
              Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val
                               165                      170                    175
              As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n
                            180                     185                     190
              Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n
                        195                   200                 205
              As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a
                   210                     215                      220
              Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o
              225                     230                     235                      240
              Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr
                                  245                   250                     255
              Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser
                             260                  265                   270
              As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r
                         275                     280                     285
                                                           Page 16

                                                            503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r
                   290                   295                    300
              Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe
              305                  310                     315                     320
              Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s
                               325                    330                     335
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                          340
              <210>   21
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 21
              Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1
              <210>   22
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 22
              Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                  5
              <210>   23
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
              <400> 23
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1
              <210>   24
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    pept i de
                                                               Page 17

                                                            503460072_1
<removed-date>
              <400> 24
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                  5
              <210>   25
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
<removed-apn>
                    6x Hi s t ag
              <400> 25
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
              1                   5
              <210>   26
              <211>   150
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Rat t us s p.
              <400> 26
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Al a Al a Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu Cy s
              1                 5                       10                    15
              Al a Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r
                            20                       25                      30
              As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g
                        35                      40                     45
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Pr o
                   50                       55                      60
              As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p
              65                    70                      75                      80
              As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n
                                 85                       90                     95
              Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Pr o Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o
                      115                     120                     125
              Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r Ser Leu Leu
                   130                    135                 140
              Pr o I l e Gl y Gl y Leu Ser
              145                      150
              <210> 27
              <211> 150
              <212> PRT
                                                               Page 18

                                                         503460072_1
<removed-date>
              <213> Sus s p.
              <400> 27
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Al a Al a Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu Cy s
              1                 5                       10                    15
              Val Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r
                           20                       25                      30
              As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g
<removed-apn>
                        35                      40                     45
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g
                   50                       55                      60
              As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p
              65                    70                      75                      80
              As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n
                                 85                       90                     95
              Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o
                      115                     120                     125
              Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r Ser Leu Leu
                   130                    135                 140
              Pr o I l e Gl y Gl y Leu Ser
              145                      150
              <210>   28
              <211>   150
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus s p.
              <400> 28
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Al a Al a Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu Cy s
              1                 5                       10                    15
              Al a Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r
                            20                       25                      30
              As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g
                        35                      40                     45
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g
                   50                       55                      60
              As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p
              65                    70                      75                      80
                                                           Page 19

                                                         503460072_1
<removed-date>
              As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n
                                 85                       90                     95
              Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Pr o Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o
                      115                     120                     125
<removed-apn>
              Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r Ser Leu Leu
                   130                    135                 140
              Pr o I l e Gl y Gl y Leu Ser
              145                      150
              <210>   29
              <211>   150
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 29
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Val Al a Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu Cy s
              1                 5                      10                    15
              Al a Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r
                            20                       25                      30
              As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g
                        35                      40                     45
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g
                   50                       55                      60
              As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p
              65                    70                      75                      80
              As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n
                                 85                       90                     95
              Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o
                      115                     120                     125
              Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r Ser Leu Leu
                   130                    135                 140
              Pr o I l e Gl y Gl y Leu Ser
              145                      150
              <210> 30
                                                           Page 20

                                                           503460072_1
<removed-date>
              <211> 150
              <212> PRT
              <213> Unk nown
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Unk nown: Bov i ne Ac t RI I b pol y pept i de
              <400> 30
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Al a Al a Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu Cy s
              1                 5                       10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Al a Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r
                            20                       25                      30
              As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g
                        35                      40                     45
              Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Ar g As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g
                   50                       55                      60
              As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p
              65                    70                      75                      80
              As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n
                                 85                       90                     95
              Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g
                            100                     105                     110
              Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o
                      115                     120                     125
              Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r Ser Leu Leu
                   130                    135                 140
              Pr o Val Gl y Gl y Leu Ser
              145                    150
              <210>   31
              <211>   150
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Xenopus s p.
              <400> 31
              Met Gl y Al a Ser Val Al a Leu Thr Phe Leu Leu Leu Leu Al a Thr Phe
              1                 5                    10                   15
              Ar g Al a Gl y Ser Gl y Hi s As p Gl u Val Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r
                             20                      25                     30
              Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Val Gl u
                        35                      40                      45
              Ar g Leu Val Gl u Gl y Ly s Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser
                   50                     55                      60
                                                          Page 21

                                                        503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Tr p Ar g As n As n Ser Gl y Phe I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s I l e Al a Ly s Gl u
                                85                       90                        95
              Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Phe Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Ty r Cy s As n
                             100                   105                      110
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Ly s Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Val Gl u Thr Phe As p Pr o Ly s Pr o
                        115                   120                   125
              Gl n Pr o Ser Al a Ser Val Leu As n I l e Leu I l e Ty r Ser Leu Leu Pr o
                   130                   135                      140
              I l e Val Gl y Leu Ser Met
              145                    150
              <210>   32
              <211>   150
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 32
              Met Gl y Al a Al a Al a Ly s Leu Al a Phe Al a Val Phe Leu I l e Ser Cy s
              1                  5                      10                     15
              Ser Ser Gl y Al a I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe
                           20                       25                     30
              Phe As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u
                       35                       40                      45
              Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p
                   50                       55                       60
              Ly s As n I l e Ser Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu
              65                       70                       75                       80
              As p As p I l e As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p
                                   85                      90                      95
              Ser Pr o Gl u Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u
                            100                    105                     110
              Ly s Phe Ser Ty r Phe Pr o Gl u Met Gl u Val Thr Gl n Pr o Thr Ser As n
                       115                    120                   125
              Pr o Val Thr Pr o Ly s Pr o Pr o Ty r Ty r As n I l e Leu Leu Ty r Ser Leu
                   130                    135                       140
                                                           Page 22

                                                            503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Val Pr o Leu Met Leu I l e
              145                  150
              <210>   33
              <211>   154
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c
                    c ons ens us pol y pept i de
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223> Thr or Al a
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 121) . . ( 121)
              <223> Pr o, Al a, Val or Met
              <400> 33
              Met Thr Al a Pr o Tr p Al a Al a Xaa Leu Al a Leu Leu Tr p Gl y Ser Leu
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Cy s Al a Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r
                             20                      25                      30
              Ty r As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u
                        35                      40                      45
              Ar g Leu Cy s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser
                   50                      55                      60
              Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p
              65                     70                      75                      80
              Leu As p As p Phe As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u
                                85                       90                      95
              Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n
                             100                    105                      110
              Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl u Xaa Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r
                        115                   120                     125
              Gl u Pr o Ly s Pr o Pr o Thr Al a Pr o Thr Leu Leu Thr Val Leu Al a Ty r
                   130                     135                   140
              Ser Leu Leu Pr o I l e Gl y Gl y Leu Ser Met
              145                    150
              <210> 34
              <211> 116
              <212> PRT
                                                               Page 23

                                                         503460072_1
<removed-date>
              <213> Homo s api ens
              <400> 34
              I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe Phe As n Al a As n
              1                   5                      10                    15
              Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y
                             20                      25                     30
              As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p Ly s As n I l e Ser
<removed-apn>
                        35                       40                     45
              Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p I l e As n
                   50                       55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p Ser Pr o Gl u Val
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Ser Ty r
                                 85                      90                      95
              Phe Pr o Gl u Met Gl u Val Thr Gl n Pr o Thr Ser As n Pr o Val Thr Pr o
                            100                   105                    110
              Ly s Pr o Pr o Thr
                        115
              <210>   35
              <211>   115
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 35
              Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n
              1                   5                       10                        15
              Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y
                            20                      25                     30
              Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n
                   50                     55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val
              65                       70                     75                       80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s
                                 85                      90                      95
              Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                            100                      105                    110
                                                           Page 24

                              503460072_1
<removed-date>
              Al a Pr o Thr
                        115
<removed-apn>
                                Page 25

