ABSTRACT
A boot dip mat for sanitising footwear; the mat comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray; the tray
provided with a layer of open loop material located within the liquid retaining tray whereby the
layer of open loop material is at least partially submerged in liquid retained in the liquid retaining
tray and such that at least the underside of a boot is scraped by the layer of open loop material and
bathed by the liquid when, in use, the boot comes into contact with the layer of open loop material.

           5/5
               cNJ
        03
0
         0
         C"'
                II,'
     (0
                        (0
  'N
                     II

                                                       1
   BOOT DIP MAT
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]        The present invention relates to contamination prevention and, more particularly
   although not exclusively, to contamination carried into food processing or other controlled areas on
  footwear.
  BACKGROUND
  [0002]        It is of paramount importance that environments in which food is processed for
  consumption be free from outside contamination. For this reason personnel entering such controlled
  environments such as food processing facilities, are required to wear protective clothing and head
  gear. As well, footwear, typically boots, must be decontaminated prior to entry into the food
 processing area.
  [0003]       Mats
  [0004]       Mats are generally a piece of material placed on entry for wiping soiled shoe soles.
 [0005]        Sanitising mats
 [0006]        It is known to provide at entry points into such areas, mats which retain a sanitising
 liquid in a tray. As shown in Figure 1 (Prior Art), the tray may further include some form of
 mechanical aid, typically in the form of upwardly projecting elements, adapted to scrape any
 detritus from the soles of footwear.
 [0007]       Generally, known in the art of mats is a type of coarse net-like resilient mat made by
 synthetic resin monofilaments. More particularly, it is known in the art a mat consisting of filament
loop aggregations. This mat is disclosed in US Patent No. 4,859,516 filed on 12 April 1988 in the
name of Kabushiki Kaisha Risuron. These mats are typically used as door mats solus. Another form
of mat known in the field is a doormat containing monofilaments from a plurality of molten
synthetic resins. Such mat is disclosed in US Patent No. 5,624,740 filed on 13 March 1996 in the
name of Yugengaisya Towa. Another form of mat is a mat comprising of a plurality of endless
monofilaments in the shapes of loops at random as disclosed in Japanese Patent Application No.
03151928 filed on 28 June 1991 in the name of Towa KK. The contents of the above
patents/application (US4,859561, US5,624,740 and JPH03151928) are incorporated herein by way

                                                     2
of cross-reference in their entirety.
[0008]       A disadvantage of known sanitising mats is their height or thickness which may be
between 40 and 50mm to be sufficient to hold a useful volume of the sanitising liquid without
undue spillage of that liquid as a user enters the tray and wipes the soles of his or her boots. This
required height is however a safety hazard, leading to the risk of inadvertently tripping over such
mats. Moreover, they make it difficult for wheeled trolleys or other wheeled equipment to pass
over.
[0009]       Another disadvantage of some known mats formed of black rubber is that they may
leave marks on a floor when used with certain chemicals.
[00010]      It is an object of the present invention to address or at least ameliorate some of the
above disadvantages.
Notes
[00011]      The term "comprising" (and grammatical variations thereof) is used in this specification
in the inclusive sense of "having" or "including", and not in the exclusive sense of "consisting only
of'.
[00012]      The above discussion of the prior art in the Background of the invention, is not an
admission that any information discussed therein is citable prior art or part of the common general
knowledge of persons skilled in the art in any country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[00013]      Definitions
[00014]      Open loop material: in this specification open loop material means a mesh of
filamentary material, often in loops sometimes joined to each other so as to form an open weave 3D
matrix.

                                                      3
   [00015]     Examples of this kind of open loop material are disclosed in US Patent No. 4,859,516
  filed on 12 April 1988 in the name of Kabushiki Kaisha Risuron. These mats are typically used as
  door mats solus. Another example of open loop material applied to a mat known in the field is a
  doormat containing monofilaments from a plurality of molten synthetic resins. Such mat is
  disclosed in US Patent No. 5,624,740 filed on 13 March 1996 in the name of Yugengaisya Towa.
  Another example of open loop material applied to a mat comprises of a plurality of endless
  monofilaments in the shapes of loops at random as disclosed in Japanese Patent Application No.
  03151928 filed on 28 June 1991 in the name of Towa KK. The contents of the above
  patents/application (US4,859561, US5,624,740 and JPH03151928) are incorporated herein by way
  of cross-reference in their entirety.
  [00016]      Boot Dip Mat: in this specification boot dip mat refers to a sanitising mat having a mat
  structure comprised of a reservoir located within a tray structure for receiving a sanitising liquid.
 Also located within the tray structure is a mechanical aid which resides within the tray. The
 mechanical aid is located so as to be bathed in sanitising liquid placed in the reservoir. The
 mechanical aid is further located and constructed so as to provide an abrasive surface for contact
 with the underside of a boot or other footwear of a user stepping onto the boot dip mat.
 [00017]       Accordingly, in one broad form of the invention, there is provided a boot dip mat for
 sanitising footwear; the mat comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray; the tray provided with a
 layer of open loop material located within the liquid retaining tray whereby the layer of open loop
 material is at least partially submerged in liquid retained in the liquid retaining tray and such that at
 least the underside of a boot is scraped by the layer of open loop material and bathed by the liquid
 when, in use, the boot comes into contact with the layer of open loop material.
 [00018]      Preferably, the layer of open loop material located within the liquid retaining tray
protrudes from 0 to 5mm above upper edges of the liquid retaining tray when the mat is initially
manufactured thereby to allow for wear.
 [00019]      In another broad form of the invention, there is provided a sanitising liquid retaining
floor mat; the floor mat comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray; the sanitising liquid retaining
tray provided with a layer of open loop material located within the tray.

                                                      4
  [00020]      Preferably, the layer of open loop material is a plastic material.
  [00021]      Preferably, the layer of open loop material is a PVC material.
  [00022]      Preferably, the layer of open loop material is a polymer material.
  [00023]      In another broad form of the invention, there is provided a method of sanitising
 footwear; the method including the steps of:
          -  Placing a boot dip mat comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray,
          -  Placing a layer of open loop material within the tray,
          -       Filling the tray to a predetermined level with a sanitising liquid
         such that at least the underside of a boot is scraped by the layer of open loop and bathed by
         the liquid when, in use, the boot comes into contact with the layer of open loop material.
 [00024]      In another broad form of the invention, there is provided a method of limiting
movement of a sanitising liquid in a sanitizing liquid retaining tray of a boot dip mat; the method
including the step of placing a layer of open loop material within the liquid retaining tray whereby,
in use, liquid in the tray interacts with the open loop material so as to restrict movement of the
liquid.
 [00025]      Preferably, the open loop material is made of polymer.
[00026]       In another broad form of the invention, there is provided a boot dip mat for sanitising
footwear at entry points into GMP food processing and like controlled environments; the mat
comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray; the tray provided with a layer of open loop material
located within the liquid retaining tray.
[00027]      Preferably, the layer of open loop material limits movement of the sanitising liquid in
the sanitised liquid retaining tray.
[00028]      Preferably, the open loop material is polymer open loop material.

                                                      5
 [00029]      Preferably, the liquid retaining tray includes a perimeter portion extending outwardly
 from the liquid retaining tray.
 [00030]      Preferably, the perimeter portion slopes upwardly from outer edges of the perimeter
portion to upper edges of the sanitising liquid retaining tray.
 [00031]      Preferably, a plane defined by uppermost portions of the open loop material is
 substantially coplanar with the upper edges of the liquid retaining tray.
 [00032]      Preferably, the loops of the layer of open loop material provide abrading surfaces for
removing detritus accreted to soles of footwear brought into contact with the mat.
 [00033]     Preferably, resilience of the open loops allows the footwear to sink into a sanitising
liquid retained in the tray.
[00034]      Preferably, wherein thickness of the sanitising mat is between 15 and 22mm.
[00035]      Preferably, wherein the thickness of the sanitising mat is between 10 and 22mm.
[00036]      In a further broad form of the invention, there is provided a boot dip mat; the mat
comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray; the sanitising liquid retaining tray provided with a
layer of polymer/ PVC open loop material.
[00037]      Preferably, resilience of loops of the layer of polymer / PVC open loop material allows
footwear of a user to sink to a level at which soles of the footwear are immersed in the sanitizing
liquid.
[00038]      Preferably, loops of the layer of open loop material provide abrading surfaces for
removal of detritus adhering to the soles of the footwear.
[00039]      In still a further broad form of the invention, there is provided a method of sanitising
footwear at entry points into GMP food processing, and like controlled environments; the method
including the steps of:
        -   Placing a boot dip mat comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray,

                                                      6
         -   Placing a layer of open loop material within the tray,
         -   Filling the tray to a predetermined level with a sanitising liquid.
 [00040]     Preferably, the liquid retaining tray is integral to a base element of the mat; the base
element including perimeter portions extending outwardly from the liquid retaining tray.
 [00041]     Preferably, the perimeter portions slope upwardly from outer edges of the perimeter
portion to upper edges of the liquid retaining tray.
[00042]      In another broad form of the invention, there is provided a method of limiting
movement of a sanitising liquid in a sanitizing liquid retaining tray of a boot dip mat; the method
including the step of placing a layer of open loop material within the liquid retaining tray.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[00043]      Embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings wherein:
[00044]      Figure 1 is a partial cross section view of a sanitising mat according to prior art;
[00045]      Figure 2 is a plan view of a sanitising boot dip mat according to a preferred embodiment
of the invention;
[00046]      Figure 3 is a cross section view of a portion of the boot dip mat of Figure 2.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00047]       In a preferred form there is provided a boot dip mat in the form of a low-profile
sanitising floor mat. In a preferred form it is integrally formed of PVC or other chemical resistant
polymer material. With reference to Figures 2 and 3, the mat 10, according to a preferred
embodiment of the invention, includes a central recess forming a sanitising liquid retaining tray 12.
Located within the liquid retaining tray 12 is a layer of open loop material 14. In a preferred form it
comprises a loop of polymer or other flexible compound. In a further particular form it may
comprise of a PVC open loop material 14 made of PVC. This layer of open loop material 14
substantially fills the tray 12 so that a plane defined by uppermost portions of the open loop

                                                      7
 material 14 is substantially coplanar with the upper edges 16 of the liquid retaining tray 12.
  [00048]     In preferred forms, when the boot dip mat is initially manufactured, the layer of open
 loop material 14 may protrude (for example, from 0 to 5mm) above the upper edges of the liquid
 retaining tray 12. Over time, through wear and tear, the layer of open loop material 14 will worn
 lower so as to be substantially coplanar with the upper edges of the liquid retaining tray 12.
 [00049]      The loops of the layer of open loop material 14 provide abrading surfaces for removing
 detritus accreted to soles of footwear brought into contact with the mat 10. This loosened material
 then settles on the bottom of the liquid retaining tray 12. The resilience of the open loops allows the
 soles of footwear to sink below the level of the sanitising liquid retained in the tray.
 [00050]      Preferably, the liquid retaining tray 12 includes a perimeter portion 18 extending
 outwardly from the liquid retaining tray. In this preferred embodiment, this perimeter portion 18 is
wedge-shaped in cross section (as shown in Figure 3) with the upper surface 20 sloping upwardly
from outer edges 22 of the perimeter portion to upper edges 16 of the sanitising liquid retaining tray
 12.
 [00051]      Preferably, the height or thickness of the mat 10 is in the range of 15 to 22mm. More
preferably, the height or thickness of the mat is in the range of 10 to 22mm. This low profile of the
mat minimizes the risk of tripping while the combination of low height and the sloping surface of
the perimeter portion allow for easy passage of wheeled trolleys.
[00052]       Embodiments of the mat may be provided in a range of colours to match colour codes in
the food industry. For example, a range of colours may be provided to match colour codes in the
food and beverage manufacturing industry. A person skilled in the art would understand that the
variety of colours provided could match colour codes in other industries and/or places including but
not limited to the use in areas of strict infection control procedures, biological hazards, sterile safety
zones, hospitals and operating theatres.
Industrial Applicability
[00053]      Embodiments of the mat thus provide for a method of cleaning and sanitizing the soles
of footwear of personnel as they enter a food processing or similar controlled GMP (good

                                                8
management practice) environments, while significantly enhancing the safety of this type of
hygiene promoting device.

                                                     9
CLAIMS
   1. A boot dip mat for sanitising footwear at entry points into GMP food processing and
                                                                                               like
       controlled environments; the mat comprising a sanitising liquid retaining tray; the
                                                                                            tray
       provided with a layer of open loop material located within the liquid retaining
                                                                                       tray.
  2. The mat of claim 1 wherein the layer of open loop material limits movement of
                                                                                         the
       sanitising liquid in the sanitised liquid retaining tray.
  3. The mat of claim 2 wherein the open loop material is polymer open loop material.
  4. The mat of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein resilience of the open loops allows
                                                                                         the footwear
      to sink into a sanitising liquid retained in the tray.
  5. The mat of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein thickness of the sanitising mat is between
                                                                                                 10 to
      22 mm.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
