                                       11
Abstract
The present invention provides a slab (11) for supporting a structure (19) such as
a building on a clay based soil. The slab comprises a concrete layer (17) which is
free of voids. The concrete layer has reinforcement means (27, 28) therein. The
layer of concrete is formed on top of the ground and is of substantially uniform
thickness.

         1/2
   0 0       0 0 0
11    Figure 1

                                                1
Slab
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention generally relates to construction of a building and in
particular the slab of that building.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002] There are a variety of soil types upon which buildings/structures are constructed.
It is critical that any building/structure be designed taking into account the type of soil in
order to provide a suitably robust and lasting structure. a type of soil commonly built
upon is clay. Clay is categorised into sub-classes based on the plasticity of the soil.
The plasticity of the soil can be affected by such things as the amount of clay in the soil,
the existence of vegetation, rock inclusion, irrigation and plumbing.
[0003] Clay soils take on different properties depending on the moisture content. Clay
soils expand and become more plastic the greater the water content. As more water is
absorbed the height of the surface of the soil increases. On the other hand, clay soils
become hard and shrink as they dry out, resulting in the height of the surface of the soil
decreasing.       These characteristics render clay soils quite difficult to construct a
sustainable and robust building upon as the behaviour of the soil changes with the
seasons.
[0004] When constructing a building on clay soil design techniques are used which
minimise the effect that movement of the clay soil may have on the building. One such
technique is to construct the building on stumps/stilts. With this type of construction the
floor of the building is elevated from the clay soil. The soil is then able to move freely
without affecting the building. Overtime the soil at the central region of the building's
footprint will dry out while the soil at the perimeter of the building's footprint will continue
to experience seasonal recharge of moisture. As a result the soil at the perimeter will
behave in much the same way as if the building was not present, while the soil at the
central region will dry out, resulting in the level of the surface dropping. This creates a
dish effect.

                                               2
[0005] Another form of construction is slab construction where footings are poured
before a concrete slab is poured onto the surface of the soil. With this type of construct
a moisture barrier, such as polyethylene sheeting is placed on the ground before the
slab is poured. While the sheeting stops moisture from passing into the slab, it does not
allow the moisture to escape from the soil. Meanwhile the soil at the perimeter of the
slab continues to cycle through drying out and being seasonally recharged. During the
early period after the slab is poured, the slab at the perimeter of the building is exposed
to the up and down movement of the soil as it loses and gains moisture, while the slab
at the central region of the building experiences relatively little change.        However,
overtime the soil in the central region continues to accumulate moisture but is unable to
release any of that moisture therefrom. This effect places upward pressure on the slab
and can create a cantilever effect on the edge portions of the slab which are exposed to
cyclical soil movement. Over the seasons movement of the soil at the perimeter of the
building causes the edge portion of the slab to cycle through various deflections
creating stresses in the slab and compromising the integrity of the building supported on
the slab. Once the soil has reached a mature/saturated state the soil at the perimeter is
at a level lower than that at the central region.
[0006] To minimise the effect of the forces from the soil on the slab, the slab is
constructed with stiffening ribs, and/or the footings are built to a depth where changes in
the moisture content are relatively small. However, this can often result in expensive
construction costs and is therefore not always desirable.
[0007] Another form of slab construction is the use of polystyrene pods which are placed
in a grid configuration on grade before concrete and steel reinforcement is formed
around, between and on top of the polystyrene pods to form the slab. While this type of
system is constructed on top of the ground, the amount of concrete and reinforcement
used in the construction of the slab is greater than that required for a traditional
concrete slab with footings which extend below the surface.
[0008] The preceding discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.

                                                3
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0009] It is an object of this invention to provide a slab for a building which ameliorates,
mitigates or overcomes, at least one disadvantage of the prior art, or which will at least
provide the public with a practical choice.
[0010]The present invention provides a slab for supporting a structure such as a
building on a clay based soil, the slab comprising a concrete layer free of voids, the
concrete layer has reinforcement means therein, the layer of concrete is formed on top
of the ground and is of substantially uniform thickness.
[0011] The present invention provides a slab for supporting a structure such as a
building on clay based soil, the slab comprising a concrete layer which is substantially
free of voids, the concrete layer has reinforcement means therein, the layer of concrete
is formed on top of the ground and is of substantially uniform thickness, the slab is
unrestricted in that it is not tied down to footings or similar anchors.
[0012] In contrast to the prior art, the slab does not require traditional footings to be
formed before the slab is poured. The slab sits upon the ground without being tied into
footings. This provides the slab with a degree of movement, allowing it to adjust as the
conditions of the clay soil change.
[0013] This protects the structure as the deflection of the slab supporting the walls of the
structure is significantly minimised, reducing the forces and stresses which would
otherwise compromise the integrity of the walls and therefore the structure.
[0014] Preferably the concrete layer is between 100mm to 300mm. Preferably the
concrete layer is between 150mm to 300mm.            The thickness of the slab is ultimately
dependent upon the structure the slab will support, as well as the reactivity of the soil
upon which the slab sits. It is expected that the majority of applications, where the slab
will support a typical house, and where the reactivity of the soil is not excessively high,
will require a slab having a thickness in the range of 150mm to 300mm.
[0015] Preferably the slab comprises a step down along the outer perimeter. The step
down may be adapted to support the external wall of the structure, or part thereof.

                                            4
[0016] Preferably the reinforcement means comprises a first reinforcement layer
positioned in the upper portion of the concrete layer. The first reinforcement layer may
be positioned 15 to 25mm below a top surface of the slab.
[0017] Preferably the reinforcement means comprises a second reinforcement layer
positioned in the lower portion of the concrete layer. The second reinforcement layer
may be positioned 15 to 25mm above a lower surface of the slab. The lower surface of
the slab may be adjacent the ground.
[0018] Preferably the structure has one or more walls which are supported on the top
surface of the slab.
[0019]The reinforcing means may be in the form of reinforcement bar and/or
reinforcement mesh.
[0020] The present invention further provides a method of forming a slab for supporting
a structure, the method comprises:
        preparing a surface upon which the slab is to be poured;
        placing first reinforcement means above/on the surface;
        laying formwork such that the formwork defines the perimeter of the slab;
        pouring concrete to a thickness between 100mm to 300mm.
[0021] The method may comprise the step of positioning a second reinforcing means
such that second reinforcing means is located above the first reinforcing means.
[0022] This form of construction does not restrain the movement of the slab. The slab is
therefore able to accommodate a degree of movement which may occur in the soil as it
absorbs and releases moisture.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0023] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following
description of a non-limiting embodiment thereof. This description is included solely for
the purposes of exemplifying the present invention. It should not be understood as a

                                              5
restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the invention as set out
above. The description will be made with reference to the accompanying drawings in
which:
        Figure 1 is a cross sectional side view of a slab according to a first embodiment
        of the present invention; and
        Figure 2 are a series of graphs comparing the deflection, moment and shear
        experienced by a slab of an embodiment of the present invention wherein the
        thickness (height) of the slab is 115 mm against a conventional waffle pod slab
        having a thickness (height) of 235 mm.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0024] The present invention according to an embodiment relates to concrete slabs and
has particular application for concrete slabs being built on clay soil types.
[0025] Referring to figure 1, the invention according to the first embodiment is in the
form of a slab 11 on the ground 13, wherein the ground comprises a clay type soil. The
slab 11 is designed to support a structure, such as a house having external walls 19.
[0026] The slab 11 is formed having a concrete layer 17 which spans between the
external walls 19.     The concrete layer 17 incorporates a step down 25 around the
perimeter to support the external wall 19, or part thereof, but is otherwise of
substantially uniform thickness.
[0027] The slab 11 incorporates reinforcing means for strengthening the slab.          The
reinforcing means is in the form of a first reinforcement layer 27 positioned below a top
surface 33 of the slab 11, and a second reinforcement layer 28 positioned above the
lower surface 35 of the slab. The first reinforcement layer 27 and second reinforcement
layer 28 are in spaced apart relation to each other and each consist of reinforcement
mesh. Each reinforcement layer is spaced inwardly from their respective adjacent slab
surface by approximately 20mm.
[0028] When constructing the slab 11 the ground is prepared and a moisture barrier (not
shown) is placed thereon. Formwork is put in place and the reinforcing means correctly
positioned. The concrete is then poured to a thickness of between 150mm to 300mm to

                                                 6
form the slab. Once the slab has set the formwork is removed and construction of the
structure may continue.
[0029] With the slab of the present invention there is no requirement to dig and pour
fittings to which the slab is tied and restrained. This negates the need for excavation of
the site before construction can commence.
[0030] By having a slab with a relatively uniform thickness the load is spread more
evenly throughout.
[0031] The present slab also provides advantages as movement of the slab is not
restricted. For instance the slab is able to shrink evenly as it is not anchored in place to
the footings. This reduces the amount of cracking experienced by the shrinking slab, to
provide a stronger slab. Furthermore the slab has a higher shear capacity when
compared to traditional slabs.
[0032] When comparing with waffle pod based slabs, the present invention also has
several further advantages. With waffle pod construction a set grid pattern must be
followed.    This limits flexibility in relation to where reinforcement may be positioned.
With the present invention the reinforcement can be laid out symmetrical, assisting in
providing a slab of uniform strength. Also, with waffle pod construction more holes are
required to accommodate the plumbing and electrical conduits around the actual waffle
pods. With the present invention the conduits do not need to navigate around obstacles
such as waffle pods.
[0033] Another advantage of having a substantially uniformly thick slab is that where
piles are required, the positioning of the piles may be optimised relative to the slab
rather than being restricted to certain sections of the slab, as is the case with waffle pod
construction. Also, with the present invention a greater quantity of concrete is provided
along the bottom of the slab when compared to waffle pod construction. This additional
thickness/quantity restrains bottom compression during hogging (i.e. edge subsidence).
[0034] Figure 2 represents characteristics of a slab made in accordance with the
present invention having a thickness of 115mm, as compared to the characteristics of a
waffle pod type slab wherein the thickness is 235mm.               As noted in each of the
deflection, moment and shear graphs the characteristics of the two different types of

                                               7
slab are very similar. However, to achieve these results, the thickness of the waffle pod
type slab is 120mm thicker than the slab built according to the present embodiment.
[0035] The additional thickness required for the waffle pod type slab is due to the
hogging performance of the waffle slab. When the slab experiences hogging only, the
base of the concrete T beams formed around the pods resist the compression induced
therein. Given the limited width of the beams the performance is reduced compared to
a slab constructed in accordance with the present invention.
[0036] The dashed lines in figure 2 represent the design limits. The reduced shear
capacity of the waffle design is also apparent in figure 2
[0037] Unless where otherwise stated herein, the present invention requires the same
preparation prior to pouring the slab as typically required when pouring a slab of the
prior art. These steps would be well known to the person skilled in the art and include
laying any plumbing, electrical conduits, moisture barrier, levelling the soil as required.
[0038] Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to the skilled addressee
are considered to fall within the scope of the present invention. The present invention is
not to be limited in scope by any of the specific embodiments described herein. These
embodiments are intended for the purpose of exemplification only.                Functionally
equivalent products, formulations and methods are clearly within the scope of the
invention as described herein.
[0039] Reference to positional descriptions, such as lower and upper, are to be taken in
context of the embodiments depicted in the figures, and are not to be taken as limiting
the invention to the literal interpretation of the term but rather as would be understood
by the skilled addressee.
[0040] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.
[0041] While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain
exemplary embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that

                                              8
various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the
spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
[0042] The method steps, processes, and operations described herein are not to be
construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or
illustrated, unless specifically identified as an order of performance.    It is also to be
understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.
[0043] Although the terms first, second, third, etc. may be used herein to describe
various elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections, these elements,
components, regions, layers and/or sections should not be limited by these terms.
These terms may be only used to distinguish one element, component, region, layer or
section from another region, layer or section. Terms such as "first," "second," and other
numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly
indicated by the context.    Thus, a first element, component, region, layer or section
discussed below could be termed a second element, component, region, layer or
section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.
[0044] Spatially relative terms, such as "inner," "outer," "beneath", "below", "lower",
"above", "upper" and the like, may be used herein for ease of description to describe
one element or feature's relationship to another element(s) or feature(s) as illustrated in
the figures.     Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different
orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in
the figures. For example, if the device in the figures is turned over, elements described
as "below" or "beneath" other elements or features would then be oriented "above" the
other elements or features. Thus, the example term "below" can encompass both an
orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented (rotated 90
degrees or at other orientations) and the spatially relative descriptors used herein
interpreted accordingly.

                                               9
CLAIMS
 1. A slab for supporting a structure such as a building on clay based soil, the slab
    comprising a concrete layer which is substantially free of voids, the concrete layer
    has reinforcement means therein, the layer of concrete is formed on top of the
    ground and is of substantially uniform thickness.
 2. A slab for supporting a structure such as a building on clay based soil, the slab
    comprising a concrete layer which is substantially free of voids, the concrete layer
    has reinforcement means therein, the layer of concrete is formed on top of the
    ground and is of substantially uniform thickness, the slab is unrestricted in that it is
    not tied down.
 3. The slab according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the concrete layer is between 100mm
    to 300mm.
4. The slab according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the concrete layer is between 150mm
    to 300mm.
 5. The slab according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the slab
    incorporates a step down along its outer perimeter.
 6. The slab according to claim 5 wherein the step down is adapted to support the
    external wall of the structure, or part thereof.
 7. The slab according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the reinforcement
    means comprises a first reinforcement layer positioned in the upper portion of the
    concrete layer.
 8. The slab according to claim 7 wherein the first reinforcement layer is positioned 15
    to 25mm below a top surface of the slab.
 9. The slab according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the reinforcement
    means comprises a second reinforcement layer positioned in the lower portion of
    the concrete layer.

                                             10
10.The slab according to claim 9 wherein the second reinforcement layer is positioned
   15 to 25mm above a lower surface of the slab.
11.The slab according to claim 10 wherein the lower surface of the slab is adjacent the
   ground.
12.The slab according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the structure has
   one or more walls which are supported on the top surface of the slab.
13.The slab according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the reinforcing
   means is in the form of reinforcement bar and/or reinforcement mesh.
14.A method of forming a slab for supporting a structure, the method comprises:
               preparing a surface upon which the slab is to be poured;
               placing first reinforcement means above/on the surface;
               laying formwork such that the formwork defines the perimeter of the slab;
               pouring concrete to a thickness between 100mm to 300mm.
15.The method according to claim 14 further comprising the step of positioning a
   second reinforcing means such that second reinforcing means is located above the
   first reinforcing means.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
