                                              18
                   SYSTEM FOR MANAGING A WIRELESS LOTTERY
  ABSTRACT
          A lottery system is provided.      Lottery tickets may be purchased using a
5 communication device, such as a mobile device. Sales commissions, or other credit, for
  the purchased tickets may be determined for one or more retailers based at least partially
  on the location of the communication device, for example, when the purchase is made.

                                                  1
 5                    SYSTEM FOR MANAGING A WIRELESS LOTTERY
   TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present invention relates generally to the field of wireless systems and, more
10 particularly, to a system for managing a wireless lottery.
   BACKGROUND
            Lotteries are generally known.    In a lottery, a number of participants purchase
   tickets, each of which represents a chance to win a prize. In some cases, a portion of the
15 revenue from ticket sales provides the winning prize. Many states have lotteries and the
   lotteries are typically run by the state. Most states have several different games, including
   instant-win scratch-off games, daily games and games where the participant must pick at
   least three or four correct numbers to win a prize. Often a lottery system will have a game
   with the largest possible payout, or prize. This game usually involves picking the correct
20 six numbers from a set of numbers (e.g., from 1 to 50).
            The odds of winning a prize may be calculated.       The odds of picking a single
   correct number depend on how many possible numbers are available and how many have
   been used. For instance, assuming none of the six numbers has been picked and assuming
   there are 50 possible numbers to choose from, and assuming there will be six numbers
25 selected overall, there are six chances to pick a given number correctly.       The odds of
   picking one number correctly are, therefore, 50/6, or 8.33:1. Using a similar calculation,
   one can determine the odds of picking another number correctly after one number has
   already been drawn. There are 49 possible numbers left, and five more numbers will be
   drawn. So the odds of picking a number correctly after one has been drawn are 49/5, or
30 9.8:1.   The odds may be calculated for picking the remaining numbers.          The odds of
   picking all six numbers are then calculated by multiplying all of the odds for the individual
   numbers. The odds are: 50/6 x 49/5 x 48/4 x 47/3 x 46/2 x 45/1     = 15,890,700:1.

                                                    2
           Winnings (prizes) may be determined and paid out according to various methods.
   For example, a state lottery might have a $10 million jackpot. The actual ticket revenues
   will be much higher than the jackpot. There are typically additional prizes that must be
   paid. Also, most states use a large portion of the lottery revenues to pay for various
 5 services and equipment. Lottery revenue may be used to pay for education, roads, disaster
   relief, human services programs, etc.        Once it has been determined how much of the
   revenue will be left for the prize, the prize itself may be paid out in different ways, such as
   in an annual payment for some period of years, or in a lump sum.
            Typically, lottery tickets are sold through retailers that are authorized by the states.
10 The retailers are usually stores, such as convenience stores. A retailer is commonly paid a
   sales commission based on certain parameters. The parameters may include percentages,
   amounts sold, number of tickets sold, commission caps, and bonuses. In New York, for
   example, retailers are paid commissions of 6% of the sales of lottery tickets. Typically, a
   commission is paid as a percentage of the sale and is paid to the retailer making the sale.
15
   SUMMARY
            Certain embodiments of the present invention are generally directed to a system for
   managing a wireless lottery. Tickets may be purchased using a wireless communication
   device.    A problem arises in allowing consumers to purchase tickets using a wireless
20 device in that there is not presently a satisfactory way to determine how sales commissions
   will be paid. For example, if a customer uses a mobile phone to make a purchase, then the
   customer has not purchased the ticket directly from a retailer.          Therefore, without an
   acceptable solution, as presented by the various embodiments described herein, a retailer
   that might have otherwise sold a ticket to the customer might lose the sales commission
25 for that ticket.
           In one embodiment a contest system is provided. The system includes a contest
   platform operable to receive purchase information corresponding to the purchase of one or
   more contest entries.     The purchase may be made using an electronic communication
   device. The system also includes a location determination module operable to determine a
30 location of the electronic communication device. The contest platform is also operable to
   determine one or more sales commissions associated with the purchase based at least
   partially on the location of the electronic communication device. The purchase may be,
   for example, the purchase of a lottery ticket.

                                                    3
            In another embodiment, an electronic communication device is provided that may
   be used to make a purchase (e.g., of a lottery ticket). The device includes a receiver, a
   transmitter, and a data input device. The data input device receives input from a user. The
   input corresponds to the purchase of a contest entry.         The transmitter is operable to
 5 transmit the input to a contest platform, and is further operable to transmit a signal useable
   by the platform to determine the location of the electronic communication device. The
   platform may further determine a sales commission for the purchase based at least
   partially on the location.
            In another embodiment a purchasing system is provided. The purchasing system
10 includes a purchase management platform operable to receive purchase information
   corresponding to the purchase of one or more items. The purchase may be made using an
   electronic communication device.          The purchasing system may include a location
   determination module operable to determine a location of the electronic communication
   device. The purchase management platform may also be operable to determine one or
15 more credits associated with the purchase based at least partially on the location of the
   electronic communication device.
            In another embodiment, a method is provided for determining credit for a sale
   made using an electronic communication device.            One step involves determining a
   location of the electronic communication device. Another step involves determining the
20 credit based at least partially on the location.
            Various embodiments of the present invention may benefit from numerous
   advantages. It should be noted that one or more embodiments may benefit from some,
   none, or all of the advantages discussed below.
            One advantage is that contest entries, such as lottery tickets, may be purchased
25 wirelessly and that associated retailer commissions may be fairly determined and
   distributed. Another advantage is an increase in purchases due at least partially to the
   convenience of being able to make purchases using the electronic communication device.
   Another advantage is that data associated with purchases, such as location data, may be
   determined, captured, stored, and processed to create additional related data and/or to
30 enable the execution of on or more events related to the purchase information. Another
   advantage is that retailers can send messages to users that make purchases using the
   electronic device and these messages may be based at least partially on the user location
   and may also be associated with the type of item (e.g., lottery ticket) being purchased.

                                                  4
            Other advantages will be readily apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art
   from the following figures, descriptions, and claims.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5          For a more complete understanding of the present invention and for further
   features and advantages, reference is now made to the following description, taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
            FIGURE 1 illustrates a wireless lottery system according to an embodiment of the
   present invention;
10          FIGURE 2 illustrates a wireless lottery sales commission distribution plan
   according to an embodiment of the present invention; and
            FIGURE 3 illustrates a wireless lottery method according to an embodiment of the
   present invention.
15 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Various embodiments are generally directed to systems and techniques to provide
   lottery services. In certain cases, the services are performed wirelessly. Accordingly, a
   system may be configured to offer and manage wireless lottery activities. According to
   one feature, the system is configured to determine which lottery retailer should be credited
20 for a wireless sale of a lottery ticket. For example, a user may view the wireless lottery
   option as a seamless transaction with no apparent distinction as to lottery ticket retailers.
   However, based on one or more parameters, the system determines one or more retailers
   that should be credited, or share in the credit, for a particular sale of a lottery ticket. This
   may be accomplished, for instance, by determining the location of the wireless purchaser
25 when the purchase is made. A system may then determine the appropriate lottery retailer
   to be credited based on the purchaser location.           For example, the system may be
   configured to credit the retailer closest to the purchaser at the time of the transaction.
   Optionally, the system may be configured to credit all retailers within a particular range of
   the purchaser. Alternatively, the purchaser may establish a "home" retailer as the credited
30 retailer. The home retailer is then credited regardless of where the purchaser is located.
            Alternatively, the system may be configured to enable the purchaser to purchase a
   ticket only when certain criteria are met. For example, a purchase may be made with the
   user is within a certain distance from an advertisement (e.g., a billboard) and when the

                                                 5
   user enters an appropriate code on the device. In such a case, the retailer(s) associated
   with the advertisement and/or the code may be credited with the sale of the lottery ticket.
   In another example, the system may be configured to determine when a purchaser enters a
   particular property (e.g., the parking lot of a particular convenience store). The system
 5 may permit the purchaser to purchase a ticket remotely (e.g., from the car) once the
   purchaser is located within certain boundaries or within a certain range of some
   predetermined point.
           According to certain related aspects, merchants that sell the wireless lottery tickets,
   or are credited with the sale, may, within a certain range, send messages (e.g.,
10 advertisements) back to the user who is purchasing a ticket.         For example, if a user
   purchases a ticket, the four agents within 1/4 mile of the purchaser may be allowed to send
   a message to the user, which is viewable on the user's device. One of the merchants might
   send a message, for example, that indicates the merchant will give the user a free coffee if
   the user comes in for a visit. The message may also include directions to the merchant's
15 store. The wireless lottery services may be provided as an add-on, or ancillary service, in
   conjunction with a basic telecommunications service.
           As shown in FIGURE 1, for example, lottery system 10 includes one or more
   communication devices 12, each having a display 14 to allow a user to interact with
   system 10 as described herein.       Communication devices 12 communicate with other
20 elements of system 10 over a communications network 18. Also included in system 10 are
   one or more retailers 30, which may be (for example) stores that sell goods and/or
   services. Retailers 30 may be credited with sales made through devices 12 according to
   the various parameters and methods described herein. System 10 also includes a lottery
   management platform 20.       Platform 20 includes at least one processor 21, at least one
25 memory 22, and at least one network interface 23. Platform 20 also includes a location
   determination module 24 for determining the location of the one or more communication
   devices 12, and a commission determination module 26 for determining commissions (or
   other credit) for sales made using the devices 12.
           Communication devices 12 may include any devices that are capable of receiving
30 and transmitting information, such as voice and/or data information, electronically.
   Communication devices 12, may have a display 14 for displaying, for example, a graphic
   user interface (GUI) to allow a user to perform various actions permitted by the system 10.
   These various actions may be related to any of the various aspects of purchasing lottery

                                                   6
   tickets and communicating information between a device 12 and any of the other
   components of system 10.
            It should be understood that although certain embodiments are described in terms
   of the sales of lottery tickets, various embodiments have applicability to sale of any entry
 5 including, without limitation, contest entries, state lotteries, scratch-off lotteries, instant
   lotteries. Also applicable are the sales of entertainment tickets such as concert tickets and
   sporting event tickets. Also applicable are sales of any other product or service for which
   a commission may be paid. This includes sales of goods and property, sales of travel
   related services, sales of securities and other investment vehicles, etc.
10          Communication devices 12 may be wireless communication devices, but the
   present invention is not so limited. Devices 12 may include, without limitation, mobile
   phones, personal data assistants (PDAs), computers, mini-computers, etc. Communication
   devices 12 may transmit and receive information to and from communications network 18.
   Information is also transmitted between network 18 and platform 20. Information may
15 also be transmitted between any of these components and one or more retailers 30.
            Information transmitted across network 18 may include any information, in any
   format, which is necessary or desirable in the operation of the wireless lottery system. The
   information may be transmitted in whole, or in combination, in any format including
   digital or analog, text or voice, and according to any known or future transport
20 technologies, which may include, for example, wireline or wireless technologies. Wireless
   technologies may include, for example, licensed or license-exempt technologies. Some
   specific technologies which may be used include, without limitation, Code Division
   Multiple Access (CDMA), Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM), General
   Packet Radio Service (GPRS), WiFi (802.1 1x), WiMax (802.16x), Public Switched
25 Telephone Network (PSTN), Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), Integrated Services Digital
   Network (ISDN), or cable modem technologies. These are examples only and one of
   ordinary skill will understand that other types of communication techniques are within the
   scope of the present invention. Further, it will be understood that additional components
   may be used in the communication of information between users, retailers, and the
30 wireless lottery platform. Such additional components may include, without limitation,
   lines, trunks, antennas, switches, cables, transmitters, receivers, computers, routers,
   servers, fiber optical transmission equipment, repeaters, amplifiers, etc.

                                                   7
           According to one embodiment, the communications network comprises a cellular
   network. The cellular network comprises a plurality of base stations, each of which has a
   corresponding coverage area. Base station technology is generally known and the base
   stations may be of any type found in a typical cellular network. The base stations may
 5 have coverage areas that overlap. Further, the coverage areas may be sectorized or non
   sectorized.     The network also        includes mobile stations, which function as the
   communication devices 12 used by users to access the lottery platform and participate in
   the lottery activities. Users are connected to the network of base stations via transmission
   and reception of radio signals. The communications network also includes at least one
10 voice/data switch, which may be connected to the wireless portion of the network via a
   dedicated, secure landline.     The lottery platform 20 may likewise be connected to the
   voice/data switch via a dedicated, secure landline.         The voice/data switch may be
   connected to the wireless network of base stations via a mobile switching center (MSC),
   for example, and the landline may be provided between the voice/data switch and the
15 MSC.
           Users access the lottery platform and or system by way of mobile stations which
   are in communication with, and thus part of, the communications network. The mobile
   station may be any electronic communication device that is operable in connection with
   the network as described. For example, in this particular embodiment, the mobile station
20 may comprise a cellular telephone.
            In the case of a cellular network for example, the lottery system may be enabled
   through the use of a private label carrier network. Each base station is programmed by the
   cellular carrier to send and receive private secure voice and/or data transmissions to and
   from mobile station handsets.       The handsets are preferably pre-programmed with both
25 gaming software and the carrier's authentication software. The base stations communicate
   via Private T- 1 lines to a switch. Encryption can be installed on the telephones if required
   by a regulating authority.
            The cellular network may be a private, closed system.                Mobile stations
   communicate with base stations and base stations are connected to a centralized switch.
30 At the switch, voice calls are transported either locally or via long distance.        Specific
   service provider lottery traffic is transported from the central switch to a lottery server at a
   host location.

                                                   8
            As users begin a lottery activity, the handset will only talk to certain base stations
   with cells or sectors that have been engineered to be wholly within the jurisdiction
   permitting and/or controlling the applicable lottery. For example, if a base station is close
   enough to pick up or send a signal across state lines, it might not be able to communicate
 5 with the device. When a customer uses the device for lottery activities, the system may
   prohibit, if desired, the making or receiving voice calls.          Moreover, voice can be
   eliminated entirely if required. Further, the devices might not be allowed to "connect" to
   the Internet.    This ensures a high level of certainty that purchase of lottery tickets
   originates and terminates within the boundaries of an applicable lottery jurisdiction and
10 the "private" wireless system cannot be circumvented or bypassed.                   In certain
   embodiments some data and/or voice traffic may be communicated at least partially over
   the Internet. Alternatively, in some embodiments, certain non-lottery information may be
   transported over a path which includes the Internet, while other information relating to the
   lottery activities of the system is transported on a path that does not include the Internet.
15 In still other embodiments, even lottery information may be transported either wholly or
   partially over the Internet. This might be the case, for example, in jurisdictions which
   allow the purchase of lottery tickets over the Internet.
            In another embodiment, for example, the communications network comprises a
   private wireless network.      The private wireless network may include, for example, an
20 802.11 x (WiFi) network technology.           Various WiFi networks may comprise the
   communication network.         The networks may use other communications protocols to
   provide a private wireless network including, but not limited to, 802.16x (WiMax)
   technology. Also, system 10 may comprise a combination of networks. For example,
   system 10 may comprise a combination of private wireless networks, a cellular network
25 comprising a multi-channel access unit or sectorized base station, and a satellite network
   comprising one or more satellites
            With respect to the private wireless network, because certain technology covers
   smaller areas, (e.g., in the range of 100-300 feet) and provides very high-speed
   throughput, the private wireless network is particularly well-suited for any jurisdictional
30 needs of location and identity verification. It should be understood that the configuration
   and description of the overall lottery system 10 is intended only as an example and may be
   modified within the scope of the present invention.
            In one embodiment, the system architecture for the lottery system includes:

                                                  9
   (1)     a wireless LAN (Local Access Network) component, which consists of mostly
   802.1lx (WiFi) and/or 802.16x WiMax technologies; robust security and authentication
   software; gaming software; mobile carrier approved handsets with Windows® or
   Symbian@ operating systems integrated within;
 5         (a) CDMA-technology that is secure for over-the-air data protection;
           (b) at least two layers of user authentication, (that provided by the mobile carrier
   and that provided by the lottery platform provider);
           (c) compulsory tunneling (static routing) to gaming servers;
           (d) end-to-end encryption at the application layer; and
10         (e) state-of-the-art firewall and DMZ technologies;
   (2)     an MWAN (Metropolitan Wireless Access Network), which consists of licensed
   and license-exempt, point-to-point links, as well as licensed and license-exempt, point-to
   multi-point technologies;
   (3)     private MAN (Metropolitan Access Network) T-1 and T-3 lines to provide
15 connectivity where wireless services cannot reach; and
   (4)     redundant private-line communications from the mobile switch back to the lottery
   platform.
           As further shown in FIGURE 1, communication devices 12 are in communication
   with a lottery management platform 20 over network 18.             The lottery management
20 platform 20 preferably has one or more servers or processors 21, on which are resident
   various lottery and lottery management applications. These applications may include, for
   example, a lottery sales application, a commission determination application, a location
   determination application, a lottery transaction tracking application, and an information
   transmission application. These applications may be embodied in one or more software
25 modules. The applications may be combined in any possible configuration. Additionally,
   it should be understood that these applications are not exhaustive and that other
   applications may exist to provide an environment to the user that is associated with any of
   the described or potential lottery activities. Processor 21 is operable to execute any of the
   software, routines, applications, etc. associated with the various functionality or modules
30 described herein. Processor 21 may be any suitable processor, computer, server, etc., or
   any combination thereof.
           Platform 20 also includes at least one memory 22. Memory 22 is operable store
   any data, software, parameters, etc. necessary for system 10 to perform the various tasks

                                                   10
   described herein. Memory 22 may store, for example, user IDs for the various users of
   communication devices         12, percentages    and other parameters used to determine
   commissions, locations of fixed elements of system 10 such as the locations of the one or
   more retailers 30, etc. Memory 22 may be any suitable memory including one or more
 5 random access memories (RAMs), read-only memories (ROMs), dynamic random access
   memories      (DRAMs), fast cycle RAMs (FCRAMs),              static RAM (SRAMs),         field
   programmable       gate arrays     (FPGAs),   erasable programmable       read-only   memories
   (EPROMs),       electrically   erasable  programmable    read-only   memories     (EEPROMs),
   microcontrollers, or microprocessors.
10          Platform 20 also includes at least one network interface 23 for receiving
   information from, and transmitting information to, other components or elements within
   system 10.
            Lottery management platform 20 includes a location determination module 24,
   which is operable to determine the location of a communication device 12. An associated
15 verification application may be additionally operable to permit or disable the purchase of a
   lottery ticket (or the conduct of other lottery activities) from a particular location
   depending upon whether or not the location meets one or more criteria. The criterion may
   be, for example, whether the location is within a pre-defined area in which lottery sales are
   permitted by law.
20          The location determination technology used in the determination module 24 may
   include,    without    limitation,   "network-based"   and/or   "satellite-based"   technology.
   Network-based technology may include such technologies as multilateration, triangulation
   and geo-fencing, for example. Satellite-based technologies may include global positioning
   satellite (GPS) technology, for example.
25          As previously discussed, a cellular approach may include the use of at least one
   cellular, mobile, voice and data network. For lottery activities in certain jurisdictions, the
   location determination technology may involve triangulation, global positioning satellite
   (GPS) technology, and/or geo-fencing to avoid the potential for lottery activities to be
   undertaken outside applicable boundaries.        Triangulation may be used as a method for
30 determining location of a communication device 12. Triangulation may be accomplished,
   for example, by comparing the signal strength from a single mobile station received at
   multiple base stations, each having GPS coordinates.         This technology may be used to
   pinpoint the location of a mobile station (i.e., a communication device). The location can

                                                   11
   then be compared to a map or other resource to determine whether the user of the mobile
   station is in an unapproved area. Alternatively, GPS technology may be used for these
   purposes.
           Any suitable type of location determination techniques may be used to determine
 5 the location of device 12, to determine whether a device 12 may be used to participate in
   the various lottery activities described herein, and/or to determine credit for sales based on
   device location. Such techniques include, without limitation, the following.
            One technique that may be used is "geo-fencing." Geo-fencing may be used, for
   example, to disable a device that is not within specified boundaries. Geo-fencing does not
10 specify location. Rather, it ensures that a mobile station is within certain boundaries. For
   instance, geo-fencing may be used to ensure that a mobile station beyond state lines does
   not access the lottery system 10. Triangulation is another technique that may be used.
   Triangulation specifies a pinpoint, or near-pinpoint, location of the device. For example, a
   device might be triangulated between three base stations to determine the location of the
15 device. Triangulation may be used to identify whether a device, such as a mobile station,
   is located in a specific area. The location determination technology utilized in conjunction
   with the present invention may be specified to meet the Federal Communication
   Commission's (FCC's) Phase 2 E911 requirements. Geological Institute Survey (GIS)
   mapping may also be utilized to compare identified coordinates of a communication
20 device with GIS map features or elements to determine whether a device is in a particular
   area.   It should be noted that any type of location verification may be used such as
   triangulation, geo-fencing, global positioning satellite (GPS) technology, signal strength
   comparisons, time difference of arrival (TDOA) or any other type of location determining
   technology, which can be used to ensure or provide an acceptable level of confidence, that
25 the user is in a particular location or within specified boundaries.
            In another embodiment, location verification is accomplished using channel
   address checking or location verification using some other identifying number or piece of
   information indicative of which network or portion of a network is being accessed by the
   communication device. Assuming the using of an identifying number for this purpose,
30 then according to one method of location checking, as an example, a participant accesses
   the lottery system via a mobile telephone.           The identifying number of the mobile
   telephone, or of the network component being accessed by the mobile telephone, identifies
   the caller's connection to the mobile network. The number is indicative of the fact that the

                                                   12
   caller is in a defined area and is on a certain mobile network. A server application may be
   resident on the mobile telephone to communicate this information via the network to the
   lottery platform. In a related embodiment, the identifying number or information is passed
   from a first network provider to a second network provider. For example, a caller's home
 5 network may be that provided by the second provider, but the caller is roaming on a
   network (and in a jurisdiction) provided by the first provider. The first provider passes the
   identifying information through to the second provider to enable the second provider to
   determine whether the caller is in a defined area that does or does not allow the relevant
   lottery activity.    Preferably the lottery platform either maintains, or has access to, a
10 database that maps the various possible worldwide mobile network identifying numbers to
   geographic areas. The invention contemplates using any number or proxy that indicates a
   network, portion of a network, or network component, which is being connected with a
   mobile telephone. The identifying number may indicate one or more of a base station or
   group of base stations, a line, a channel, a trunk, a switch, a router, a repeater, etc.
15          In another embodiment, when the user connects his mobile telephone to the lottery
   platform, the lottery platform draws the network identifying information.                Software
   resident on the communication device may incorporate functionality that will, upon login
   or access by the user, determine the user's location (based at least in part on the identifying
   information) and send a message to the lottery platform.           The identifying number or
20 information used to determine location may be country-specific, state-specific, town
   specific, or specific to some other definable boundaries.
            In connection with any of the location determination methods, the lottery platform
   may periodically update the location determination information. This may be done, for
   example, during a lottery transaction, or at pre-defined time intervals, to ensure that
25 movement of the communication device to an unauthorized area is detected during lottery
   activities, and not just upon login or initial access.
            Thus, depending on the location determination technology being used, the decision
   whether to permit or prohibit a lottery activity may be made at the communication device,
   at the lottery platform, or at any of the components of the telecommunication network
30 being used to transmit information between the platform and the communication device
   (such as at a base station, for example).
            Lottery platform 20 also includes a commission determination module 26. Among
   other thing, commission determination module 26 determines the commissions payable to

                                                   13
   one or more retailers.      The determination may be made, at least in part, based on the
   location of one or more communication devices 12 (as determined, for example, by
   location determination module 24).        It should be understood that all modules and/or
   components illustrated within platform 20 may be separate, integrated, centralized,
 5 remote, overlapping, or in any other configuration so long as the functionality of the
   modules is provided.
           Commission determination module 26 may determine that a retailer 30 that is
   closest to a particular device 12, which was used to purchase a lottery ticket, is to be
   credited with the sale of that ticket. Thus, that particular retailer would be entitled to any
10 applicable commission based on that sale. It should be understood that the term "retailer"
   is not meant to be limiting. A retailer can be any distributor of lottery tickets (or other
   contest entries or other goods or services being purchased).           A retailer can be an
   individual, a store, a government agency, a distributor, a kiosk, etc. In another
   embodiment, the commission determination module may be operable to determine a
15 commission based on the location of one or more retailers within a certain distance from
   one or more communication devices 12, such as the particular device 12 used to purchase
   a ticket. For example, location determination module 24 may determine the location of a
   device 12 used to purchase a ticket. Commission determination module 26 may determine
   that two retailers 30 are within a predetermined (e.g., 5 mile) radius of the communication
20 device 12.     Commission determination module 26 may further determine that the
   commission for the sale of the ticket will be split between the two retailers 30.
           Commission determination module 26 may use additional parameters to determine
   the appropriate commission. Such parameter may include, without limitation, location of
   one or more devices 12; location of one or more retailers 30; distances from one or more
25 devices 12 to one or more retailers 30; pre-selected user preferences; day, date and time
   information; zone boundaries; prorating parameters, percentages, etc.
           According to another embodiment, predetermined zones may be established. If a
   purchase is made using a device in a particular zone, it may be determined that all or a
   subset of the retailers in that zone are credited with the sale.
30         According to another embodiment, commission determination module 26 may
   prorate commissions between multiple retailers based on their respective distances to the
   device 12 that was used to make the purchase. According to a related example, module 26
   may determine the commissions based on predetermined percentages according to which

                                                    14
   the various retailers (e.g., all of the retailers within 5 miles of the device 12) should be
   entitled to a commission.        For example, certain stores might be entitled to greater
   percentages than other stores.
           According to at least one embodiment, a user of a device 12 may pre-select one or
 5 more retailer to be a "home" retailer. This might be a retailer, for example, that the user
   frequents in person. When the device 12 is used by that particular user to purchase a
   lottery ticket, the home retailer is credited with the sale. This feature may be independent
   of, or combined with, the other parameters described herein.           For example, the home
   retailer may be credited regardless of the location of the device 12. As an alternative
10 example, the home store is credited together with, but at a higher percentage than,
   additional retailers that are all within a certain distance from the device 12.
           According to another embodiment, a user of a device 12 may only be able to make
   a purchase using the device when the device is within a certain distance from a particular
   point. For example, the user might have to be within a certain distance from a billboard
15 advertising the lottery. If a purchase is made within a certain distance from the point, a
   predetermined recipient is credited with the sale (and thus any commission). In this case,
   the advertiser might be credited with the commission, or at least a portion thereof.
           According to a related aspect, users might be presented with one or more possible
   codes which must be entered on the communication device GUI in order to make a
20 purchase. For example, a code may be displayed on a billboard, or on an advertisement in
   a store, or on an advertisement on a particular television station.        If the user enters a
   particular code in conjunction with the purchase of the ticket, then the entity associated
   with the code (e.g., the advertiser, the store where the advertisement is located, or the
   media entity providing the code) is credited with the sale and the resulting commission.
25          It should be understood that the term "commission" is not limited to any particular
   type of commission. Commission may simply mean, in some embodiments, recognition
   or credit for a sale. Commissions may be financial commissions paid, for example, as a
   percentage of the sale.     Commissions may also be other types of incentives, including
   other types of financial incentives, such as bonuses, which are determined based on any
30 suitable parameters.
            FIGURE 2 illustrates an example of the operation of the location determination
   module 24 in conjunction with the operation of the commission determination module 26.
   As shown, there are two communication devices 210 and 204, respectively. There are also

                                                  15
   two retailers 206 and 208, respectively. According to an example, a lottery ticket may be
   purchased using device 210.         Location determination module 24 may determine that
   device 210 is at a particular location. Commission determination module 26 may retrieve
   information regarding the location of various retailers to determine that retailer 206 is the
 5 only retailer within a certain predetermined radius 203 of device 210. Thus, commission
   determination module 26 may determine that retailer 206 is entitled to the credit for, and
   any commissions resulting from, the sale of the lottery ticket which was made using
   device 210.
            In another example illustrated by FIGURE 2, a lottery ticket may be purchased
10 using device 204. In this case, location determination module 24 determines the location
   of device 204. Commission determination module 26 may determine (based on stored
   information, for example) the locations of various retailers and may further determine that
   retailers 206 and 208 are the only retailers within a certain radius 205 from device 204.
   Commission determination module 26 may then determine that the credit and commission
15 for the sale is to be equally divided between retailers 206 and 208.
            Alternatively, it may be determined that retailer 206 is a first distance 209 from
   device 204 and retailer 208 is a second distance 207 from device 204. It may be further
   determined that second distance 207 is shorter than first distance 209.           It may be
   consequently determined that retailer 208 is closer to device 204 than is retailer 206 and,
20 therefore, retailer 208 is entitled to the commission.
            Alternatively, it may be determined that second distance 207 is half the distance of
   first distance 209.     It may be further determined that the commission will be divided
   between retailers 206 and 208, but prorated 1/3 to retailer 206 and 2/3 to retailer 208. It
   should be appreciated that numerous examples for determining the commission based at
25 least partially on the retailer and user locations may be incorporated into the various
   embodiments as described herein.
            FIGURE 3 illustrates an example method for determining commissions for the sale
   of a lottery ticket.     Although the method shows various steps in a certain order, the
   invention is not so limited. Steps may be added, removed, and altered, and the order of the
30 various steps may be change.
            In the illustrated example, the method begins with step 302 in which a user makes
   a purchase using a communication device.           The purchase may be, for example, the

                                                    16
   purchase of a lottery ticket. Any of the other types of purchases described herein are
   contemplated.
            In step 304, the location of the user is determined. This may be accomplished
   using any of the components and any of the techniques described herein. Preferably, the
 5 location is determined based on the location of the user's communication device at the
   time the purchase is made. However, the location may be determined at another time or
   according to other criteria.
            In step 306, a credit (e.g., a sales commission) is determined based at least partially
   on the user location. Again, the credit may be any type of financial or non-financial credit,
10 commission, payment, bonus or recognition. The credit may be determined based on any
   of the techniques and according to any of the additional parameters discussed herein.
            In step 308, the credit, as determined in step 306, is distributed to one or more
   retailers.   The distribution may be accomplished according to any suitable payment
   method including cash, check, money or wire transfer, credit, etc. Other distributions are
15 envisioned such as would be applicable to a non-financial credit. The credit may also be
   distributed by the creation of a record corresponding to the purchase and linking the
   retailer to the record (e.g., by use of a retailer ID).
            Although various embodiments of the invention and its advantages have been
   described in detail, a person skilled in the art could make various alternations, additions,
20 and omissions without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as
   defined by the appended claims.
            For example, according to a related aspect, at least certain embodiments may
   incorporate a messaging function. According to the messaging function, a retailer or the
   lottery platform may send messages to one or more of the users. The messages may be,
25 for example, alerts, advertisements, promotions, confirmations, etc. Messages might be
   predetermined based on distance or proximity of the user to one more other elements of
   system 10 (such as a retailer).         As an example, a retailer that is credited with the
   commission for the sale of a lottery ticket made using a device 12 may generate a message
   to the user of device 12. The message might thank the user for making the purchase and
30 invite the user to the retailer's location for a free drink. The message may also include
   directions to the merchant's store. According to certain related aspects, merchants that sell
   the wireless lottery tickets may, within a certain range, send messages (e.g.,
   advertisements) back to the user who is purchasing the ticket. For example, if a user

                                                 17
   purchases a ticket, the four agents within 1/4 mile of the purchaser may be allowed to send
   a message to the user, which is viewable on the user's device.
           According to another aspect, the system may be configured to determine when a
   user enters a particular property (e.g., the parking lot of a particular convenience store).
 5 The system may permit the user to purchase a ticket remotely (e.g., from the car) once the
   user is located within certain boundaries or within a certain range of some predetermined
   point.
           According to another aspect, the lottery services described herein may be provided
   as an add-on, or ancillary service, in conjunction with a basic telecommunications service.
10
           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
   of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers
15 or steps.
           The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
   as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge in Australia. Further, the reference to any prior art in this
20 specification is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of
   suggestion that such art would be understood, ascertained or regarded as relevant by the
   skilled person in Australia.

                                                18
What is Claimed is:
1.      A method for determining credit for a sale made at a time using an electronic
communication device, the method comprising:
        determining, by at least one processor, a location of the electronic communication
device at the time of the sale;
        determining by the at least one processor, for each of a plurality of retailers, a
distance between (a) the location of the electronic communication device at the time of
the sale and (b) a location of the respective retailer;
        determining, by the at least one processor, a respective credit for each of the
plurality of retailers based at least partially on the determined distance between the
location of the electronic communication device at the time of the sale and the location of
each respective retailer; and
        causing the respective credit to be provided to each of the plurality of retailers.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the act of determining the credit comprises:
        determining, based on the determined distance between (a) the location of the
electronic communication device at the time of the sale and (b) the location of each
respective retailer, one or more of the plurality of retailers that are within a predetermined
range of the location of the electronic communication device at the time of the sale.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the credits provided to the plurality of retailers
are equal in value.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the act of determining the respective credits
comprises:
        determining a sales commission for the sale; and
        dividing the sales commission among the plurality of retailers according to
predetermined percentages based on the determined distance between (a) the location of

                                                19
the electronic communication device at the time of the sale and (b) the location of each
respective retailer.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the act of determining the respective credits
comprises:
         determining a sales commission for the sale; and
         prorating the sales commission among the one or more retailers based on the
determined distance between (a) the location of the electronic communication device at
the time of the sale and (b) the location of each respective retailer.
6.       The method of claim 1, wherein at least one credit associated with the sale is
provided to a predetermined retailer regardless of a distance between the predetermined
retailer and the location of the electronic communication device at the time of the sale.
7.       The method of claim 1, further comprising sending a message to the user of the
electronic communication device, in which the message comprises at least one of a
promotion and a confirmation of the sale.
8.       The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         receiving purchase information from the electronic communication device,
         wherein the purchase information comprises a code, and
         wherein the act of determining the credit is performed based at least in part on the
code.
9.       The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving purchase information from
the electronic communication device, wherein:
         the purchase information comprises a code;
         the code is associated with an entity; and
         a credit associated with the sale is provided to the entity.
10.      The method of claim 9, wherein the entity is an advertiser.

                                                20
11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the entity is a media provider.
12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the code is provided on media distributed by the
media provider.
13.     The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic communication device comprises a
mobile wireless communication device, further comprising:
        determining to allow the sale based on a determination that the location of the
mobile wireless communication device is within a predetermined zone.
14.     The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic communication device comprises a
mobile wireless communication device, further comprising:
determining to allow the sale based on a determination that the location of the mobile
wireless communication device is within a certain predetermined distance from a
predetermined second location.
15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the predetermined second location corresponds
to the location of an advertisement.
16.     The method of claim 1, wherein the sale is a sale of a lottery ticket.
17.     The method of claim 1, wherein the sale comprises at least one of a sale of a
contest entry, a sale of a security, a sale of an investment instrument, and a sale of
services.
18.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        determining, by the at least one processor, a respective credit for each of the
plurality of retailers based at least partially on the determined distance between the
location of the electronic communication device at the time of the sale and the location of
each respective retailer,

                                                 21
         in which the act of determining the respective credits comprises:
                  determining a shortest distance between (i) the electronic communication
         device at the time of the purchase and (ii) the plurality of retailers; and
                  determining the credits based at least in part on the determined shortest
         distance.
19.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         executing at least one contest activity,
         in which the at least one contest activity comprises determining the location of the
at least one electronic communication device at the time.
20.      An apparatus, comprising:
         at least one processor; and
         a memory that stores instructions which, when executed by the at least one
processor, direct the at least one processor to perform a method comprising:
                  receiving purchase information corresponding to a purchase of one or
         more contest entries, the purchase being made at a time of purchase from a
         retailer using an electronic communication device in communication with the
         contest platform over a communications network, in which a location of each of a
         plurality of retailers is stored in a memory;
                  determining a location of the electronic communication device, the
         location of the electronic communication device being a location of the electronic
         communication device at the time of purchase;
                  determining, for each of the plurality of retailers, a distance between (i)
         the location of the electronic communication device at the time of purchase and
         (ii) the location of the respective retailer; and
                  determining one or more sales commissions associated with the purchase
         for at least one of the plurality of retailers based at least partially on the
         determined distances between the location of the electronic communication
         device at the time of purchase and the respective locations of each of the at least
         one of the plurality of retailers.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
