                                       ABSTRACT
A security device (8) for articles of value, is provided with a substrate (10), an image
layer (12) supported on the substrate. The image layer has a first set of
microstructures (14) to generate a first imagery effect viewable in transmitted and
reflected light, and a second set of microstructures (16, 18) to generate a second
imagery effect viewable in transmitted light only. At least some of the second set of
microstructures (16, 18) are integrally formed with the first set of microstructures
(14).

                    1/5
                     2
                                    4                 6
                       5
                         Figure 2A       Figure 2B
                          Prior Art       Prior Art
   Figure 1
   Prior Art
                                                    8
             14 16      14       16   14
12
                                              18
                                              10
                   Figure 3

                                                1
Title of Invention
Security Device for Valuable Articles
Field of the Invention
[0001]       The invention relates generally to the field of security features and anti
counterfeit measures for articles of value. In particular, the invention relates to
security features that generate optically variable effects from different viewing angles
and in different lighting conditions.
Background of Invention
[0002]       To guard against counterfeits, security features are applied to articles of
value such as security documents or tokens. Security features may generate optical
effects that are difficult to replicate for would be counterfeiters. The equipment used to
form security features on documents such as identity cards, passports, credit cards,
banknotes, cheques, vouchers, tickets and certificates is often specialised high
precision equipment beyond the reach of relatively unsophisticated counterfeiters.
However, more advanced counterfeiters with access to suitable equipment can
fabricate microstructures that will generate the optically variable effects created by the
authentic security features. In view of this, there is an ongoing imperative to derive
new security features that generate optical effects that are not familiar to experienced
counterfeiters. Replicating the optical effect of a new security feature will often require
the authentic security feature to be analysed or reverse engineered. As a safety
measure, most security features are formed such that attempts to expose or analyse
the micro structure will result in its destruction.
[0003]       Any reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given
as prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was
known or that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge
as at the priority date of any of the claims.
Summary of the Invention
SPCN-1099209

                                                  2
[0004]         In light of the above, the present invention provides a security device for
               articles of value, the security device comprising:
               a substrate,
               an image layer supported on the substrate,
               wherein, the image layer comprises;
                   a first set of microstructures to generate a first imagery effect viewable
in transmitted and reflected light, and
                   a second set of microstructures to generate a second imagery effect
viewable in transmitted light only, wherein
                   at least some of the second set of microstructures are integrally formed
with the first set of microstructures.
[0005]         In another aspect, the invention provides a method of forming a security
device; the method comprising:
           applying an image layer to a substrate;
           forming a first set of microstructures in the image layer to generate a first
           imagery effect viewable in transmitted and reflected light;
           forming a second set of microstructures in the image layer to generate a
           second imagery effect viewable in transmitted light only; wherein
                   at least some of the second set of microstructures are integrally formed
       with the first set of microstructures.
[0006]         Preferably, the second set of microstructures is formed by modulating a
height, depth and/or thickness of one or more microstructures within the first set of
microstructures. The skilled reader will understand that the terms "height", "depth" and
"thickness" relate to dimensions extending normal to the plane of the substrate.
[0007]         Preferably, the second set of microstructures is formed without adversely
impacting the first imagery effect when the first imagery effect is viewed in reflection.
<filename>

                                             3
[0008]     Preferably, the first and second imagery effects at least partially overlap
when both are viewed in transmission.
[0009]     Preferably, the substrate is transparent or translucent and the first set of
microstructures is formed to a first depth below a surface of the image layer and the
second set of microstructures are formed to a second depth below a surface of the
image layer.
[0010]     Alternatively, the first set of microstructures are formed in one surface of
the image layer and the second set is formed into an opposing surface of the image
layer.
[0011]     Preferably, the first and second set of microstructures are embossed into
the image layer.
[0012]     Preferably, the first and second set of microstructures are formed in a
single embossing step.
[0013]     Preferably, the second imagery effect is encompassed within the first
imagery effect.
[0014]     Preferably, the first and second set of microstructures include diffractive
image elements.
[0015]     Preferably, the depths of the first recesses are less than the depth of the
second recesses.
[0016]     Preferably, the security device further comprises a lens array and the first
imagery effect is an optically variable magnification of the first set of microstructures.
[0017]     Preferably, the lens array includes lenticular, spherical or aspheric lenses.
[0018]     Preferably, the optically variable magnification includes animation effects,
3D effects, moire effects or image flip effects.
[0019]     Preferably, the image layer is embossed to a third depth to form a foot for
contact with the substrate.
[0020]     Preferably, the image layer includes an embossed coloured UV resin.
<filename>

                                             4
[0021]       Preferably, the image layer includes an embossed clear UV resin with an
overprint layer to fill embossed recesses.
[0022]       Preferably, the overprint layer has multiple layers of different coloured
overprint.
[0023]       Preferably, the second imagery effect is a greyscale image using spatial
variation of the recesses embossed to the second depth to form the second set of
microstructures.
[0024]       Preferably, the second imagery effect is a greyscale image using amplitude
modulation of the size of the recesses embossed to the second depth.
[0025]       Optionally, the second image is a greyscale image using frequency
modulation of the pitch of uniformly sized recesses embossed to the second depth.
Security Document or Token
[0026]       As used herein the term security document includes all types of documents
and tokens of value and identification documents including, but not limited to the
following: items of currency such as banknotes and coins, credit cards, cheques,
passports, identity cards, securities and share certificates, driver's licenses, deeds of
title, travel documents such as airline and train tickets, entrance cards and tickets,
birth, death and marriage certificates, and academic transcripts.
[0027]       The invention is particularly, but not exclusively, applicable to security
documents such as banknotes or identification documents such as identity cards or
passports formed from a substrate to which one or more layers of printing are applied.
The diffraction gratings and optically variable devices described herein may also have
application in other products, such as packaging.
Substrate
[0028]       As used herein, the term substrate refers to the base material from which
the security document or token is formed. The base material may be paper or other
fibrous material such as cellulose; a plastic or polymeric material including but not
limited to polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE),         polycarbonate (PC),    polyvinyl
chloride (PVC), polyethylene terephthalate (PET); or a composite material of two or
<filename>

                                            5
more materials, such as a laminate of paper and at least one plastic material, or of
two or more polymeric materials.
[0029]     The use of plastic or polymeric materials in the manufacture of security
documents pioneered in Australia has been very successful because polymeric
banknotes are more durable than their paper counterparts and can also incorporate
new security devices and features. One particularly successful security feature in
polymeric banknotes produced for Australia and other countries has been a
transparent area or "window".
Transparent Windows and Half Windows
[0030]         As used herein the term window refers to a transparent or translucent
area in the security document compared to the substantially opaque region to which
printing is applied. The window may be fully transparent so that it allows the
transmission of light substantially unaffected, or it may be partly transparent or
translucent partially allowing the transmission of light but without allowing objects to
be seen clearly through the window area.
[0031]     A window area may be formed in a polymeric security document which has
at least one layer of transparent polymeric material and one or more opacifying layers
applied to at least one side of a transparent polymeric substrate, by omitting least one
opacifying layer in the region forming the window area. If opacifying layers are applied
to both sides of a transparent substrate a fully transparent window may be formed by
omitting the opacifying layers on both sides of the transparent substrate in the window
area.
[0032]     A partly transparent or translucent area, hereinafter referred to as a "half
window," may be formed in a polymeric security document which has opacifying
layers on both sides by omitting the opacifying layers on one side only of the security
document in the window area so that the "half-window" is not fully transparent, but
allows some light to pass through without allowing objects to be viewed clearly
through the half-window.
[0033]     Alternatively, it is possible for the substrates to be formed from an
substantially opaque material, such as paper or fibrous material, with an insert of
<filename>

                                            6
transparent plastics material inserted into a cut-out, or recess in the paper or fibrous
substrate to form a transparent window or a translucent half-window area.
Opacifyinq Layers
[0034]     One or more opacifying layers may be applied to a transparent substrate to
increase the opacity of the security document. An opacifying layer is such that LT<Lo
where Lo is the amount of light incident on the document, and    LT is the amount of light
transmitted through the document. An opacifying layer may comprise any one or more
of a variety of opacifying coatings. For example, the opacifying coatings may
comprise a pigment, such as titanium dioxide, dispersed within a binder or carrier of
heat-activated   cross-linkable   polymeric   material. Alternatively,   a substrate of
transparent plastic material could be sandwiched between opacifying layers of paper
or other partially or substantially opaque material to which indicia may be
subsequently printed or otherwise applied.
Security Device or Feature
[0035]     As used herein the term security device or feature includes any one of a
large number of security devices, elements or features intended to protect the security
document or token from counterfeiting, copying, alteration or tampering. Security
devices or features may be provided in or on the substrate of the security document
or in or on one or more layers applied to the base substrate, and may take a wide
variety of forms, such as security threads embedded in layers of the security
document; security inks such as fluorescent, luminescent and phosphorescent inks,
metallic inks,   iridescent inks, photochromic, thermochromic,          hydrochromic or
piezochromic inks; printed and embossed features, including relief structures;
interference layers; liquid crystal devices; lenses and lenticular structures; optically
variable devices (OVDs) such as diffractive devices including diffraction gratings,
holograms and diffractive optical elements (DOEs).
Embossable Radiation Curable Ink
[0036]     The term embossable radiation curable ink used herein refers to any ink,
lacquer or other coating which may be applied to the substrate in a printing process,
and which can be embossed while soft to form a relief structure and cured by
<filename>

                                             7
radiation to fix the embossed relief structure. The curing process does not take place
before the radiation curable ink is embossed, but it is possible for the curing process
to take place either after embossing or at substantially the same time as the
embossing step. The radiation curable ink is preferably curable by ultraviolet (UV)
radiation. Alternatively, the radiation curable ink maybe cured by other forms of
radiation, such as electron beams or X-rays.
[0037]      The radiation curable ink is preferably a transparent or translucent ink
formed from a clear resin material. Such a transparent or translucent ink is particularly
suitable for printing light-transmissive security elements such as sub-wavelength
gratings, transmissive diffractive gratings and lens structures.
[0038]      In one particularly preferred embodiment, the transparent or translucent ink
preferably comprises an acrylic based UV curable clear embossable lacquer or
coating,
[0039]      Such UV curable lacquers can be obtained from various manufacturers,
including Kingfisher      Ink Limited,  product ultraviolet type UVF-203         or similar.
Alternatively, the radiation curable embossable coatings maybe based on other
compounds, e.g. nitro-cellulose.
[0040]      The radiation curable inks and lacquers used herein have been found to be
particularly suitable for embossing microstructures, including diffractive structures
such as diffraction gratings and holograms, and microlenses and lens arrays.
However, they may also be embossed with larger relief structures, such as non
diffractive optically variable devices.
[0041]      The ink is preferably embossed and cured by ultraviolet (UV) radiation at
substantially the same time. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the radiation
curable ink is applied and embossed at substantially the same time in a Gravure
printing process.
[0042]      Preferably, in order to be suitable for gravure printing, the radiation curable
ink has a viscosity falling substantially in the range from about 20 to about 175
centipoise, and more preferably from about 30 to about 150 centipoise. The viscosity
may be determined by measuring the time to drain the lacquer from a Zahn Cup #2. A
<filename>

                                           8
sample which drains in 20 seconds has a viscosity of 30 centipoise, and a sample
which drains in 63 seconds has a viscosity of 150 centipoise.
[0043]      With some polymeric substrates, it may be necessary to apply an
intermediate layer to the substrate before the radiation curable ink is applied to
improve the adhesion of the embossed structure formed by the ink to the substrate.
The intermediate layer preferably comprises a primer layer, and more preferably the
primer layer includes a polyethylene imine. The primer layer may also include a cross
linker, for example a multi-functional isocyanate. Examples of other primers suitable
for use in the invention include: hydroxyl terminated polymers; hydroxyl terminated
polyester based co-polymers; cross-linked or uncross-linked hydroxylated acrylates;
polyurethanes; and UV curing anionic or cationic acrylates. Examples of suitable
cross-linkers include: isocyanates; polyaziridines; zirconium complexes; aluminium
acetyl acetone; melamines; and carbodi-imides.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0044]      Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described by
way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
            Figure 1 shows the micro imagery for a lenticular lens-based optically
variable device (OVD);
            Figures 2A and 2B show the contrast switch optical effect generated by the
OVD using the micro imagery shown in Figure 1;
            Figure 3 is a schematic sectioned view of a micro structured image layer
according to the present invention;
            Figure 4A shows a schematic section view of different microstructured
image layers according to the present invention;
            Figure 4B is a plan view of the microstructured image layers shown in
Figure 4A viewed in reflected light such that a first imagery effect is visible;
            Figure 4C is a plan view of the microstructured image layer shown in
Figure 4A seen in transmitted light such that the second imagery effect is visible;
<filename>

                                            9
             Figure 5 is a schematic section view showing the microstructured image
layer of transparent material being overprinted with a layer of higher optical density;
             Figure 6 is a schematic section view of a microstructured image layer and
micro lens array on opposing sides of a transparent polymer substrate;
             Figure 7A and 7B are perspective views of an embossing tool and the
resulting embossed structure of the image layer respectively;
             Figure 8 shows the primary image effect seen in reflected light when
viewing the embossed image layer of Figure 7B;
             Figure 9 shows the secondary image effect viewed in transmitted light
when viewing the embossed image layer shown in Figures 7B;
             Figure 10 shows the second imagery effect generated by the embossed
image layer shown in Figures 11 and 12, when viewed in transmitted light;
             Figure 11 shows an embossing tool for embossing an image layer as
shown in Figure 12; and
             Figure 12 shows the image layer embossed by the tool of Figure 11.
Detailed Description
[0045]       Figure 1 shows the micro-imagery used with a lenticular lens based OVD
to create a contrast switch optical effect as shown in Figures 2A and 2B. The micro
imagery 2 has vertical lines 32 microns wide and spaced apart by 32 microns. The
image of the numeral '5' is created by laterally displacing the relevant portion of the
vertical lines by 32 microns. An array of 64 micron wide lenticular lenses (not shown)
is positioned over the micro-imagery parallel to the vertical lines, such that a 'positive'
image 4 of the numeral '5' is seen at a first viewing angle while at a complementary
angle, the lenticular lenses generate a 'negative' image 6 of the '5'. This is typically
referred to as a contrast switch effect which has been used in prior art security
devices applied to valuable articles such as banknotes and so on.
[0046]       Figure 3 shows a schematic cross-section of a security device 8 according
to the invention. An image layer 12 is applied to one surface of a polymer substrate
<filename>

                                            10
10. The image layer may be a coloured UV embossable resin formed into the
microstructure using an embossing tool such as an engraved nickel shim (not shown).
The desired microstructure for the image layer 12 may be suitable for a lens based
security device as discussed above or a non-lens based security device. In both
cases, the device can generate a first imagery effect viewable in transmission and
reflection, as well as the second imagery effect viewable in transmission only. In
terms of the micro imagery shown in Figure 1, the 32 micron wide vertical lines are
provided by the raised sections 14 of the coloured UV curable resin while the
background is provided by the recessed sections 16. The colour density in the raised
sections 14 is significantly higher than the low colour density in the recessed sections
16. This provides the necessary level of image contrast required for a contrast switch
effect (see Figures 2A and 2B). The Applicants have realised that many printing
techniques are unreliable when printing micro imagery, such as the 32 micron wide
lines shown in Figure 1. In particular, gravure printing may be inconsistent and
inaccurate when printing micro imagery such as 32 micron wide lines together with
the offset sections to generate the numeral '5'. In more complicated optical effects,
such as animations, 3D images, integral images and moire magnifications, even
smaller micro images are required which only exacerbates the printing difficulties.
However, the use of an embossing process has been found more reliable and
consistent.
[0047]      The top surface of the polymer substrate 10 (in the orientation shown in
Figure 3) is coated with a primer prior to the application of a patch or stripe of the UV
curable coloured resin. The resin is then embossed and simultaneously cured via UV
lights that direct UV radiation through the substrate on to the curable resin. It will be
appreciated that this integrated inline UV embossing/gravure            printing process
provides significant production efficiencies. Optionally, the embossing tool need not
be an engraved shim attached to a roller but rather an engraved roller itself.
[0048]      The recesses in the surface of the roller or the shim correspond to the dark
areas on an image layer to be formed by coloured UV cured resin. That is the
recesses in the roller create the raised regions 14 with a high colour density relative to
the recesses 16 in the image layer 12, which will have substantially less colour
density.
<filename>

                                             11
[0049]      To ensure that the micro imagery 2 has the correct colour density across
all areas, the layer of UV curable resin must be thick enough to completely fill the
volume of recesses within the surface of the engraving tool. However, the layer
thickness should not be so great that an excessively thick foot 18 of supporting resin
is formed. The optical brightness of the resulting structures 14 and 16 when viewed in
transmission will depend on the thickness of the UV cured resin, and the thickness of
the foot 18 will inherently reduce the contrast in the primary image effect and the
contrast in magnified optical image effects to some degree. In light of this, the volume
of UV cured resin per unit area should be applied in a controlled and metered fashion
to ensure the required levels of image contrast between the raised regions 14 and the
recessed region 16.
[0050]      By using an embossing process, the replication of the profile etched into
nickel shim is precise and consistent. This avoids the problems typically encountered
using other print techniques, such as dot skip, screening defects or missing dots
occurring during gravure printing. Embossing will also allow micro imagery with
elements as small as several microns, whereas this is an impractical resolution for
other printing techniques such as gravure, lithographic and offset printing.
[0051]      Figures 4A, 4B and 4C schematically illustrate the differences between the
first image effect viewed in reflected light and the second image effect viewed in
transmitted light. As shown in Figure 4A, the polymer substrate 10 is supporting an
image layer 12 with three separate microstructures in which the raised and recessed
sections 14 and 16 have different configurations. However, as shown in Figure 4B,
the first imagery effect 20 is the same for all three of the different image
microstructures. On the other hand, the second imagery effects 22 viewed in
transmission are all different with relatively dark areas 24 corresponding to the raised
regions 14 and the relatively light areas 26 corresponding to the recesses 16.
[0052]      Figure 5 shows an alternate embodiment in which the embossed image
layer 12 has a substantially transparent UV curable resin supporting an overprint layer
of coloured ink 28. In this example, the relatively thick regions 30 of the coloured ink
28 will have a high optical density while the relatively thin regions 32 display a low
optical density. In these embodiments of the security device, the thickness of the foot
18 is not as important as the previous embodiment since the light coloured areas of
<filename>

                                            12
the image will depend on the degree of overprint thickness 34, rather than the
thickness of the foot 18.
[0053]     The embodiments shown in Figures 4 and 5 are capable of creating high
resolution micro imagery for use with lens based OVDs, or non-lens based devices
such as micro text. In lens based OVDs, the image layer 12 is applied to the polymer
substrate 10 directly opposite the lens array 36 on the other side of the substrate 10
as shown in Figure 6. Typically, the image layer 12 is at or within the focal plane 38 of
the lens array 36. Figure 6 shows an image layer 12 in accordance with that shown in
Figure 4, however it will be appreciated that the image layer 12, including an overprint
layer 28 as shown in Figure 5, may also be used with a lens array 36.
[0054]     The security device of Figure 6 may be viewed from the lens side 52 in
transmitted light to generate the second imagery effect that is not seen when the
image layer is viewed in reflected light from the lens side. For example, if the lens
array 36 is a lenticular lens array and the security device is tilted back and forth when
viewed in transmitted light from the lens side 52, the second imagery effect will be a
projected contrast switch or flip, such as that shown in Figures 2A and 2B. The colour
of each portion of the projected image switches from a darker colour (the colour of the
UV resin) to a lighter shade of the same colour or vice versa. With suitable changes to
the image layer 12 and the lens array 36, the security device may also implement
other lens based optically variable effects, such as multi-frame animations or flips,
magnifying moire effects, interlaced image effects, integral imagery effects and so on.
The lens array 36 may be one dimensional (lenticular) or two dimensional (spherical
or aspheric lens array), a parallax barrier array or any other array of elements for
focussing or sampling the microstructures within the image layer 12.
[0055]     The embodiments shown in Figures 5 and 6 may also be implemented
using multiple different colours of UV curable resin and/or overprint layers. For
example, the embodiment of Figure 5 may use multiple overprint layers of different
colour applied to the embossed transparent UV resin structure 14 and 16. These
different overprint layers may be applied adjacent each other with or without
intervening gaps, or with a region of overlap.
<filename>

                                              13
[0056]       In some embodiments, the transparent UV resin is embossed and the
overprint layer or layers are applied using standard print methods (such as gravure
printing), to create multi-coloured micro imagery within the image layer 12, such that
the imagery effects are multi-coloured. In the embodiments of Figure 3 to 6, the
highest level of image contrast is achieved when the device is viewed in transmission.
When viewing in transmission, the colour density of each image portion will increase
with the depth of each embossed feature in the case of the image layers shown in
Figures 3 and 6. Alternatively the colour density of each image portion increases with
the thickness of the overprint layer (see Figure 5). In some cases, the overprint
thickness 34 will be zero and may also be negative, such that there is insufficient
overprint ink 28 to fill the recesses 16 in the embossed transparent microstructure.
[0057]      The integrated first and second sets of microstructures also provide a
mechanism for embedding a second imagery effect within a first imagery effect. The
second imagery effect is encoded into the embossed depth of the primary image.
That is, the spatial distribution of the embossed depth within the primary image is
modulated to create the different brightness levels to generate the second imagery
effect. For example in Figures 8 and 9, the first imagery effect may be the square 44
viewable in reflected and transmitted light, whereas the numeral '5' is embossed to a
shallower depth than that of the square 44 using the embossing tool 40 shown in
Figure 7A to provide the image layer 42 shown in Figure 7B.
[0058]      The embossing tool 40 of Figure 7A forms the micro structured layer 42
shown in Figure 7B, on a transparent or translucent substrate (not shown). This
generates a first imagery effect in the form of a square that is visible in reflection and
transmission. However in transmitted light, a second imagery effect in the form of the
numeral '5' is also revealed. In some embodiments, the image layer 42 is applied in
the window region of a banknote such that the UV curable resin is applied by a roller
and cured using UV embossing as discussed above. Preferably, the UV application
roller applies the UV resin to the substrate over a region that extends a set distance
beyond the extent of the recessed square 62 in the embossing tool, thus ensuring
recessed square 62 is completely filled with curable resin prior to UV curing. Within
the relatively thin peripheral foot 56 formed after embossing, is a thicker layer of the
UV curable resin to provide the square seen in transmission and reflection. The
thickness of the UV curable resin in this area is greater than that of the peripheral foot
<filename>

                                              14
56, however the thickness in the area 60 providing the numeral '5' is more than that of
the foot 56 but less than that of the square 58. As such, the micro structured image
layer 42 creates a second imagery effect of the numeral '5' with a colour density that
is more than that of the foot 56 but less than that of the square 58 (excluding the foot
56). In this way, the numeral '5' is clearly visible in transmission but not seen (or
difficult to see) when viewed in reflection from either side of the transparent
supporting substrate (not shown).
[0059]      In the embodiments shown in Figures 7A, 7B, 8 and 9, the first imagery
effect 44 and the second imagery effect 46 are both monochromatic, since the
embossing tool incorporates two structure depths. The embossing depth associated
with each image (see depth 62 and 64 shown in Figure 7A) are each constant across
the image layer 42. However other embodiments include a first imagery effect in
which the microstructures are amplitude modulated (in the XY plane), frequency
modulated (in the XY plane) or embossing depth modulated (into the Z axis). The
same applies to the second imagery effect. For example, the second imagery effect
(numeral '5') may be created by microstructures that have been amplitude modulated
in the XY plane, frequency modulated in the XY plane or embossing depth modulated
along the Z axis. Similarly, there may be combinations of different modulations and/or
embossing depths. Using this technique provides first and second imagery effects
with multiple levels of brightness or grey levels.
[0060]      Using the known optical density of the particular UV resin forming the
image layer 42, the embossing depth for the microstructures providing the first
imagery effect and second imagery effect are chosen so that the second imagery
effect is easily visible in strong transmitted light while the first imagery effect is plainly
visible in reflection or transmission. These embossing depths are determined using a
relationship between the reflected and transmitted light intensity as a function of the
embossing depth of the UV curable structure, which is then related back to the first
and second imagery effects.
[0061]      The skilled worker in this field will readily appreciate that the second
imagery effect may be integrally encoded into the microstructure generating a micro
optical imagery effect such as the micro image array 2 used in Figure 1. As discussed
above, Figure 1 implements a contrast switch effect when placed under an array of
<filename>

                                             15
lenticular lenses. Using the present invention, it is possible to encode a second
imagery effect into the first imagery effect (the contrast switch of the numeral '5').
Referring to Figures 10, 11 and 12, the second imagery effect 52 shown in Figure 10
is integrated into the image layer 50 (Figure 12) produced by the embossing tool 48
(Figure 11).
[0062]      The dark areas of the first imagery effect shown in Figure 1 are created by
the series of channels 66 formed in the embossing tool 48 to a first depth. These
provide corresponding parallel raised features 76 extending up from the foot of the
image layer 50 shown in Figure 12. Between the channels 66 are landings 68
(embossed to a 'zero depth'), which creates the channels 86 separating each of the
raised sections 76 in the image layer 50. The bottom of the channels 86 are flush with
the top of the footings in the absence of any embossing.
[0063]      As discussed above in relation to Figure 1, the numeral '5' is provided by
phase shifting the appropriate parts of the channels 66 and landing 68. In the
embossing tool 48 shown in Figure 11, the numeral '5' offsets the appropriate areas
of the landings 72 by the full width of a channel 66 and the channels 70 within the '5'
are offset by the same amount. In the UV cured resin image layer 50, these features
in the tool 48 create the raised sections 76 separated by the channel sections 86 in
the background to the '5' while the channel sections and raised sections 78 and 80
respectively within the '5' are offset by the width of the channel.
[0064]      In the embossing tool 48, each channel 66 encloses at least one area
embossed to a greater depth to create the circle of raised features 82 and 84.
Therefore, the image layer 50 shown in Figure 12 has a relatively thin layer of UV
curable material about the footing and within the channels 86. Extending upwardly
from each of the raised sections 76 is at least one additional section forming a short
segment of the circle providing the second imagery effect. As the embossing tool 48
embosses the circle segments to a greater depth 74, these circle segments become
the raised features 82 and 84 having the greatest thickness of the UV curable resin
and therefore this circle provides a second imagery effect that appears in transmitted
light together with the lenticular magnification of the numeral '5'. This second imagery
effect will be seen in combination with the first imagery effect (the numeral '5'). This
<filename>

                                              16
means that the optical density of the second imagery effect will be greater than that of
the first imagery effect when both are viewed in transmitted light.
[0065]      In reflected light, the first imagery effect will be visible in its entirety, while
the second imagery effect will have a low contrast against the background of the first
imagery effect and therefore be invisible or at least difficult to see. This is because the
intensity of reflected light is much less impacted by the varying depth of the
embossed structure. Conversely, viewing the embossed UV curable layer 50 in direct
transmission allows the first imagery effect to be seen in its entirety and the second
imagery effect will also be clearly visible, even though it is combined into the first
imagery effect as the transmitted light intensity is attenuated in proportion to the
thickness of the UV resin of the image layer 50.
[0066]      It should be noted that viewing the first imagery effect in direct reflection
means viewing the embossed image layer 50 directly from the image layer side of the
substrate, not the lens side of the substrate. Furthermore, when the first imagery
effect is viewed in reflected light through the lens array, the lenticular lenses will
sample the microstructures responsible for generating both the first and second
imagery effects.
[0067]      When the first imagery effect is viewed in transmitted light through the lens
array, a low contrast image of the contrast switch effect with the numeral '5' is visible.
An image of the circle 52 will also be seen due to the sampling effect of the lenses on
the circle microstructures 82, 84 etc.
[0068]      Alternative embodiments use an image layer similar to that shown in Figure
5 in which the clear UV curable resin is embossed and then overprinted with a
coloured ink. In these embodiments, the optical density will be greatest in regions
where the overprint layer is thickest and hence the second imagery effect, provided
by the circle, would appear as the lightest part of the combined image viewed in
transmission as the layer of overprint across the circle microstructures will be the
thinnest.
[0069]      An embossed coloured UV curable resin may also be applied directly to the
reverse side of the lens array 36 (see Figure 6) with or without any intervening
substrate layer 10. This will also provide an optically variable device in which a
<filename>

                                              17
contrast switch effect is seen when viewed in transmission from the lens side 54. The
projection of the numeral '5' switches in contrast as shown in Figures 2A and 2B as
the substrate is tilted. If the image layer 12 is formed in accordance with the
embossing tool shown in Figure 11 to have the circle microstructures 82 and 84, the
projected image seen from the lens side of the device in transmission lighting will also
contain within it portions of the encoded secondary image being sampled by the
lenses. An image layer 12 corresponding to that shown in Figure 12 will project an
image of the circle when viewed from an angle at which the background to the
numeral '5' appears dark in colour. The circle will appear darker than the background
due to the extra optical density created by the additional thickness of UV resin in the
area of the circle. However, the circle will largely disappear at the complementary
viewing angle which projects the transmitted light coloured background to the user.
[0070]        When viewed from the lens reverse side (the side opposite the lens array
36), in direct reflection, the secondary image will have low contrast and be invisible or
difficult to discern from the primary image (implementing contrast switch of the
numeral '5'). However, when viewed in transmission from the lens reverse side, the
circle 52 shown in Figure 10 becomes visible due to its increased optical density
compared to the rest of the primary image. When the device is viewed from the lens
side in reflection, the circle 52 will have low contrast and be difficult to discern from
the magnification of the primary image. In this way, the reverse side of the device can
display a secondary image in transmitted light via corresponding microstructures
encoded into the image layer without compromising the contrast and image quality of
the magnified primary image. Previously, the reverse side of lens devices were not
printed with additional design elements because of the detrimental impact on the
contrast in the magnified primary image. However, the integrated microstructures
generating the secondary image on the reverse side in transmitted lighting provides
an additional level of security to further enhance the counterfeit resistance. The partial
visibility of the secondary image from the lens side provides yet another optical effect
that still further enhances the security.
[0071]        The different images viewed in reflection and transmission stem from the
depth of the embossed structures attenuating the light intensity when viewed in
transmission, whereas these embossed structures do not have as large an impact on
the intensity of reflected light (that is, viewing in reflection). The brightest portions of
<filename>

                                            18
light reflected toward the viewer emanate primarily from the surface of the
microstructures, while any light reflected from material below the surface is strongly
attenuated.
[0072]      In the example described above, the secondary image effect provided by
the circle 52 has been produced by regions of increased thickness of the coloured UV
resin in the image layer. However, multiple thicknesses may be used to create the
second imagery effect and these thicknesses may be less than or greater than the
thickness of the UV resin creating the primary image. Furthermore, while the above
example describes the invention with reference to a contrast switch effect, it is equally
applicable to other optical effects used to generate the first imagery effect. For
example, animation effects, 3D effects, magnifying moire effects, integral image
effects, image flips and so on, may be optically coupled with one dimensional or two
dimensional lens arrays (or other focussing elements) in security devices with
secondary image effects viewable in transmission.
[0073]      The embossing tools used to emboss the microstructures into the image
layer can be fabricated in several different ways. Embossing rollers may be produced
using techniques similar to those used to make gravure cylinders, such as laser
ablation, chemical etching or mechanical engraving. Alternatively embossing shims,
such as nickel shims, may be made using laser micromachining, laser lithography, UV
lithography, direct laser writing (i.e. mask-less laser lithography or grey tone
lithography). These techniques have the position and tolerances suitable for etching
the 'negative' of the image layer microstructures into the surface of the embossing
tool.
[0074]      Skilled workers in this field will readily understand that the invention
enables high quality and consistent reproduction of high resolution images having
micron scale print elements that cannot be achieved using conventional print
methods. Similarly, the invention provides a means for generating a second imagery
effect hidden within a microstructured image layer configured to provide a first
imagery effect, wherein the second imagery effect only becomes clearly visible when
the device is viewed in transmission. This additional visual effect serves to increase
the counterfeit resistance. By providing means to integrate microstructures for a
second imagery effect within the microstructures for a first imagery effect, the
<filename>

                                               19
microstructures being deployed on the reverse side of a lens array, the second
imagery effect is visible when the lenses are viewed directly in transmission lighting,
or when the first imagery effect microstructures are viewed directly in transmission
lighting (that is viewed from the non-lens side in transmission). This provides an
added security level without any compromise to the quality of the magnified image
generated by the lens array. In contrast, if a second design element would be
deployed on the lens reverse side via conventional print methods, the light passing
through the secondary design (i.e. in transmission) would be attenuated and in turn,
the 'transmission' contrast in the magnified primary image would be reduced. The
contrast in the magnified primary image would also be reduced in reflection, due to
image cross-talk between the first imagery effect and the second (conventionally
printed) design element.
[0075]      Furthermore, because the microstructures for the first and second imagery
effects are integrated into a single image layer in a single embossing step, the need
for any additional in line or off line printing steps is not required.
[0076]      The present invention has been described herein by way of example only.
Skilled workers in this field will readily recognise many variations and modifications
which do not depart from the spirit and scope of the broad inventive concept.
<filename>

                                              20
The claims defining the invention are as follows
1.     A security device for articles of value, the security device comprising:
               a substrate,
               an image layer supported on the substrate,
               wherein, the image layer comprises;
                      a first set of microstructures to generate a first imagery effect
       viewable in transmitted and reflected light, and
                      a second set of microstructures to generate a second imagery
       effect viewable in transmitted light only, wherein
                      at least some of the second set of microstructures are integrally
       formed with the first set of microstructures.
2.     A security device according to claim 1 wherein the second set of
       microstructures is formed by modulating a height, depth, thickness of one or
       more microstructures within the first set of microstructures
3.     A security device according to claim 2 wherein the second set of
       microstructures is formed without adversely impacting the first imagery effect
       when the first imagery effect is viewed in reflection.
4.     A security device according to claim 3 wherein the first and second imagery
       effects at least partially overlap when both are viewed in transmission.
5.     A method of forming a security device; the method comprising:
               applying an image layer to a substrate;
               forming a first set of microstructures in the image layer to generate a
       first imagery effect viewable in transmitted and reflected light;

                                      21
      forming a second set of microstructures in the image layer to generate a
second imagery effect viewable in transmitted light only; wherein
              at least some of the second set of microstructures are integrally
formed with the first set of microstructures.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                               5/5
<removed-date>        72                       66
                   70                            68
                                                            48
<removed-apn>
                                                       74
                                                 74
                             Figure 11
                        80                            50
                                                      76
                                                             86
              78
                                                       82
                                            84
                                Figure 12

