According to the invention there is provided a magnetic clamp which comprises a housing, the
housing defining a base for resting on a work surface; and an adjustable friction reducing
arrangement associated with the base of the housing, the friction reducing arrangement being
movable relative to the base between a first position in which the friction reducing arrangement
reduces an area of contact between the base of the housing and the work surface and a second
position in which the area of contact between the base of the housing and the work surface is
increased.

                                                  I
                                        "A magnetic clamp"
      Cross-Reference to Related Applications
The entire content of the complete specifications of Australian Patent Application Nos.
2013201108, 2007299567 and <removed-apn> as originally filed is incorporated herein by
reference.
             The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent
     Application No 2006905147 filed on 18 September 2006, the contents of which are
 5 incorporated herein by reference.
     Field of the Invention
             This invention relates, generally, to the clamping of elements during the
     fabrication of concrete slabs. More particularly, the invention relates to a magnetic
10 clamp.
     Background to the Invention
             Manufacture of concrete slabs and structures is now commonly effected by pre
     casting techniques. Pre-cast manufacture of concrete panels and structures is becoming
15 the preferred method for many construction applications including industrial,
     commercial and retail applications.
             Typically, pre-casting of a concrete panel or other concrete member is
     performed on a steel bed. Edge or perimeter moulds are used to produce concrete slabs
     and structures of a certain shape. These moulds are commonly referred to as sideforms.
20 Magnetic clamps, to which the sideforms are attached, are used to secure the sideforms
     in position on a steel bed.
             The magnetic clamp exerts an extremely large clamping force to secure the
     magnetic clamp in position on the steel bed and to inhibit movement of the sideforrn
     relative to the steel bed. Due to the magnitude of the clamping force, the magnetic
25 clamp usually has a means for controlling the magnetic attraction between the magnetic
     clamp and the steel bed. Once the clamping force exceeds a predetermined magnitude,
     it becomes difficult to adjust the position of the magnetic clamp relative to the steel
     bed.
             Furthermore, a magnetic clamp is quite heavy which also increases the difficulty
30   of adjusting the position of the magnetic clamp relative to the steel bed.
             Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
     "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
     element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
     any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
35

                                                2
   Summary of the Invention
           According to the invention, there is provided a magnetic clamp which comprises
           a housing, the housing defining a base for resting on a work surface; and
           an adjustable friction reducing arrangement associated with the base of the
 5 housing, the friction reducing arrangement being movable relative to the base between
   a first position in which the friction reducing arrangement reduces an area of contact
   between the base of the housing and the work surface and a second position in which
   the area of contact between the base of the housing and the work surface is increased.
           A magnet may be housed in the housing. The magnet may be displaceably
10 arranged within the housing. The clamp may include an operating member arranged on
   the housing for displacing the magnet relative to the housing between an active state in
   which the magnet exerts a clamping force for clamping the housing to the work surface
   and an inactive state in which the magnet exerts a residual force smaller than the
   clamping force.
15         The friction reducing arrangement may comprise a plurality of friction reducing
   elements. Each friction reducing element may be a retractable element. Preferably,
   each friction reducing element is a retractable pin carried by the base, the pin being
   movable relative to the base between a normally extended position and a retracted
   position.    The area of contact between the housing and the work surface may be
20  reduced when each friction reducing element is in its extended position and,
    conversely, the area of contact between the housing and the work surface may be
    maximised when each friction reducing element is in its retracted position.
            Each friction reducing element may define a foot which rests on the work
    surface when the friction reducing element is in its extended position so that at least a
25  part of the base of the housing is elevated above the work surface.
            Further, each friction reducing element may be displaceably received in a
    receiving formation defined in the base of the housing. Each receiving formation may
    be arranged adjacent to a periphery of the base.
            When each friction reducing element is in its retracted position, the foot of the
30 friction reducing element may be received in its associated receiving formation to be
    substantially flush with a surface of the base.
            An urging means may be associated with each friction reducing element to urge
    the friction reducing element to its extended position. Each urging means may be in
    the form of a spring, more particularly, a coil spring co-axially aligned with its
35   associated friction reducing element.

                                                    3
       Brief Description of the Drawings
                An embodiment of the invention is now described with reference to the
       accompanying drawings, in which:
                FIG. I shows, in partial cross-section, a side view of a magnetic clamp in
   5 accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                FIG. 2 shows an enlarged, cross-sectional view of detail I-I of FIG. 1;
                FIG. 3 shows a side view of the magnetic clamp on a work surface with a
       friction reducing arrangement in an extended position;
               FIG. 4 shows a side view of the magnetic clamp on the work surface with the
 10 friction reducing arrangement in a retracted position;
               FIG. 5 shows a perspective view, from below, of the magnetic clamp; and
               FIG. 6 shows a bottom view of the magnetic clamp.
      Detailed Description of an Exemplary Embodiment
 15            In the drawings, reference numeral 10 generally designates a magnetic clamp, in
      accordance with an embodiment of the invention, for clamping elements such as
      sideforms (not shown) to a work surface in the form of a steel bed 11 (FIGS. 3 and 4).
      The magnetic clamp 10 includes a housing 12 which defines a base 14. The magnetic
      clamp 10 also includes an adjustable friction reducing arrangement 15 carried on the
20    base 14 of the housing 12. The friction reducing arrangement 15 comprises a plurality
      of friction reducing elements, each in the form of a pin 16, arranged in the base 14.
               In the illustrated embodiment, the friction reducing arrangement 15 includes
      four pins 16. However, it will be appreciated that any number of pins 16 may be
      employed. Each pin 16 is movable relative to the base 14 between a first, extended
25   position (FIGS. 1, 2 and 5) in which the pins 16 reduce an area of contact between the
     housing 12 and the steel bed 11 and a second, retracted position (FIG. 4) in which the
      area of contact between the housing 12 and the steel bed 11 is maximised.
              The housing 12 houses a magnet 18 (FIGS. 5 and 6) for magnetically clamping
     the housing 12 to the steel bed 11. The housing 12 carries an operating handle 20
30   which acts on the magnet 18 such that movement of the handle 20 causes a
     corresponding movement of the magnet 18 inside the housing 12. Movement of the
     handle 20 to a first orientation (as shown in FIGS. 1, 3 and 5) causes retraction of the
     magnet 18 relative to the housing 12 so that the magnet 18 is in an inactive state. In its
     inactive state, the magnet 18 exerts a reduced, residual magnetic force on the steel bed
35   11 so that the assembly 10 can be positioned in a desired position on the steel bed 11.
     The magnitude of the residual magnetic force is such that, once the magnet 18 has been

                                                     4
      positioned on the steel bed 21, the magnetic force is sufficiently strong to maintain the
      housing 12 in the desired position on the steel bed 11.
              When the handle 20 is moved to a second orientation (as shown in FIG. 4) the
      magnet 18 moved to its operative, clamping position in which an operatively lower
  5   surface of the magnet 18 lies substantially flush with the base 14. In this clamping
      position, the magnet 18 is able to exert a clamping force to clamp the housing 12 to the
      steel bed I1 securely.
              The housing 12 defines an operatively lower surface 22 having a plurality of
     receiving formations, each of which is in the form of a bore 24 (FIG. 2). Each bore 24
 10   slidably receives one of the pins 16 of the friction reducing arrangement 15. Each bore
      24 is arranged adjacent a periphery 26 (FIGS. 5 and 6) of the lower surface 22 of the
     housing 12 and extends substantially perpendicularly to the lower surface 22 of the
     housing 12 into a wall of the housing 12.
              Each pin 16 is a one-piece unit formed of a rigid material, such as a metal, and
 15  comprises a foot 28, a boss 30 and a spigot 32 (FIG. 2). Each pin 16 is slidably
     received in its associated bore 24 such that it can slide between its extended and
     retracted positions. Each boss 30 is sized to provide a snug sliding fit for the pin 16 in
     its associated bore 24. When the pin 16 is in its extended position, its associated foot
     28 is proud of the lower surface 22 of the base 14. Conversely, when the pin 16 is in its
20   retracted position, its associated foot 28 is substantially flush with the lower surface 22
     of the housing 12.
             An urging means in the form a spring 34 is arranged in each bore 24. Each
     spring 34 has a first end 36 which abuts an end wall 38 of its associated bore 24 and a
     second end 40 which is mounted on the spigot 32 of its associated pin 16. Each spring
25   34 is arranged so that it is biased to urge its associated pin 16 to its extended position.
             In use, the magnetic clamp 10 is used to clamp sideforms (not shown) to the
    steel bed I1, the sideforms being used to form a mould for casting a concrete panel. It
    will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that, in order to enhance the support for
    the sideforms which the magnetic clamp 10 provides, the magnetic clamp 10 is formed
30  of materials which give rise to the clamp 10 having a substantial weight.
             Due to the action of the springs 34 acting on the pins 16 to urge each pin 16 to
    its associated extended position in which the foot 28 of each pin 16 is proud of the
    lower surface 22 of the base 14, the housing 12 is supported on the pins 16 when the
    magnetic clamp 10 is initially placed on the work surface 11. Thus, the springs 34 have
35  a sufficient spring force to overcome the weight of the clamp 10 at least when the
    magnet 18 is in its inactive state. The base 14 of the housing 12 is elevated above the

                                                     5
       steel bed 11. In addition, the combined spring force of the springs 34 is also sufficient
       to support the housing 12 against the action of the residual magnetic force exerted by
       the magnet 18 when the magnet 18 is in its inactive state,
               Accordingly, with the pins 16 in their extended position, the area of contact with
   5   the steel bed II is determined by a surface area of the foot 28 of each of the pins 16.
       The combined surface area of the feet 28 is small relative to the surface area of the base
       14 of the housing 12 and, as a consequence, reduces a resistance to manoeuvring the
       housing 12 relative to the steel bed 11 to enable a user to position the clamp 10,
       carrying its associated sideform, in the desired position on the steel bed 11. In
  10   particular, minor adjustments to the position of the sideform relative to the steel bed 11
       can be easily made when the pins 16 are in their extended position.
               Once the sideform has been positioned, the user exerts a downward force on the
       housing 12 against the action of the springs 34 to urge the housing 12 towards the steel
      bed 11 until each pin 16 is received in its associated bore 24 and the base 14 of the
 15   housing 12 comes into contact with the steel bed 11. When this occurs, the residual
      magnetic force of the magnet 18 is sufficiently increased to hold the clamp 10 in
      position against the action of the springs 34.
               The base 14 of the housing 12, together with the surface area of the foot 28 of
      each pin 16, forms an increased area of contact between the housing 12 and the steel
 20   bed 11. This increased area of contact results in a higher resistance to movement being
      generated between the housing 12 and the steel bed 11. Additional minor adjustments
      to the positioning of the sideform can now be made by tapping the housing 12.
              Once the sideform is in its final desired position, the operating handle 20 is
     moved to its second orientation to displace the magnet 18 and bring it into its active
25   state. In its active state, the magnet 18 exerts its clamping force which securely clamps
     the housing 12 and the sideforn to the steel bed 11.
              It is accordingly an advantage of a preferred embodiment of the invention to
     provide a magnetic clamp 10 which facilitates positioning of the clamp 10 on a work
     surface and allows minor positioning of the magnetic clamp 10 to be more easily
30   effected such that more accurate manufacturing tolerances of the panels can be
     achieved.
              It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
     and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
     embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
35   described, The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
     illustrative and not restrictive.

                                          5A
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment
or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived
from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                                 6
    CLAIMS:
     1.     A magnetic clamp which comprises
            a housing, the housing defining a base for resting on a work surface; and
            an adjustable friction reducing arrangement associated with the base of the
 5 housing, the friction reducing arrangement being movable relative to the base between
    a first position in which the friction reducing arrangement reduces an area of contact
    between the base of the housing and the work surface and a second position in which
    the area of contact between the base of the housing and the work surface is increased.
10  2.      The clamp of claim 1 in which a magnet is housed in the housing.
    3.      The clamp of claim 2 in which the magnet is displaceably arranged within the
   housing.
15 4.       The clamp of claim 3 which includes an operating member arranged on the
   housing for displacing the magnet relative to the housing between an active state in
   which the magnet exerts a clamping force for clamping the housing to the work surface
   and an inactive state in which the magnet exerts a residual force smaller than the
   clamping force.
20
   5.       The clamp of any one of the preceding claims in which the friction reducing
   arrangement comprises a plurality of friction reducing elements.
   6.       The clamp of claim 5 in which each friction reducing element is a retractable
25 element.
   7.       The clamp of claim 6 in which each friction reducing element is a retractable pin
   carried by the base, the pin being movable relative to the base between a normally
   extended position and a retracted position.
30
   8.       The clamp of claim 7 in which each friction reducing element defines a foot
   which rests on the work surface when the friction reducing element is in its extended
   position so that at least a part of the base of the housing is elevated above the work
   surface.
35

                                                7
   9.     The clamp of any one of claims 5 to 8 in which each friction reducing element is
   displaceably received in a receiving formation defined in the base of the housing.
   10.    The clamp of any one of claims 5 to 9 in which an urging means is associated
 5 with each friction reducing element to urge the friction reducing element to its extended
   position.
   11.    The clamp of claim 10 in which each urging means is in the form of a spring
   aligned with its associated friction reducing element.
10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
