                                   ABSTRACT
Compositions and methods for inducing tolerance and depleting B cells in a human
are provided. This includes administering a genetically modified T cell expressing a
CAR, wherein the CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a transmembrane
domain, a costimulatory signalling region and a CD3 zeta signalling domain.

                                 TITLE OF THE INVENTION
    USE OF CART19 TO DEPLETE NORMAL B CELLS TO INDUCE TOLERANCE
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
 5                  This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/671,508, filed July 13, 2012, and is a divisional of AU 2013289984, the contents
   of both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10                  Using gene transfer technologies, T cells can be genetically modified
   to stably express antibody binding domains on their surface that confer novel antigen
   specificities that are major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-independent. Chimeric
   antigen receptors (CARs) are an application of this approach that combines an antigen
   recognition domain of a specific antibody with an intracellular domain of the CD3-z
15 chain or FcgRI protein into a single chimeric protein (Gross et al., 1989 Proc. Natl.
   Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 86: 10024-10028; Irving et al., 1991 Cell 64: 891-901). Trials
   testing CARs are presently under way at a number of academic medical centers (Kohn
   et al. 2011 Mol. Ther. 19: 432-438; Jena et al., 2010 Blood 116: 1035-1044). In most
   cancers, tumor-specific antigens are not yet well defined, but in B cell malignancies,
20 CD19 is an attractive tumor target. Expression of CD 19 is restricted to normal and
   malignant B cells (Uckun et al., 1988 Blood 71: 13-29), and CD19 is a widely
   accepted target to safely test CARs. Although CARs can trigger T cell activation in a
   manner similar to an endogenous T cell receptor, a major impediment to the clinical
   application of this technology to date has been the limited in vivo expansion of CAR+
25 T cells, rapid disappearance of the cells after infusion, and disappointing clinical
   activity (Jena et al., 2010 Blood 116: 1035-1044; Sadelain et al., 2009 Curr. Opin.
   Immunol. 21: 215-223).
                    CAR-mediated T cell responses may be further enhanced with addition
   of costimulatory domains. In a preclinical model, inclusion of the CD137 (4-1BB)
30 signaling domain was found to significantly increased antitumor activity and in vivo
   persistence of CARs compared to inclusion of the CD3-z chain alone (Milone et al.,
   2009 Mol. Ther. 17, 1453-1464; Carpenito et al., 2009 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
    106: 3360-3365). To evaluate the safety and feasibility for adoptive transfer of T cells
   gene-modified to express such CARs, a pilot clinical trial using autologous T cells
                                                  I

WO 2014/012001                                                               PCT/US2013/050293
      expressing an anti-CD19 CAR including both CD3-z and the 4-1BB costimulatory
      domain (CART 19 cells) to target CD 19+ malignancies was conducted. Three patients
     have been treated under this protocol. Some of the findings from one of these patients
      are described in (Porter et al., 2011 N. Engl. J. Med. 365: 8), which reports that this
  5  treatment results in tumor regression, CART 19 cell persistence, and the unexpected
      occurrence of delayed tumor lysis syndrome. It was also observed that the CART 19
      cells mediated potent clinical antitumor effects in all three patients treated. On
      average, each infused CAR T cell and/or their progeny eliminated more than 1000
      leukemia cells in vivo in patients with advanced chemotherapy-resistant chronic
 10   lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CART 19 cells underwent robust in vivo T cell
      expansion, persisted at high levels for at least 6 months in blood and bone marrow
      (BM), continued to express functional receptors on cells with a memory phenotype,
      and maintained anti-CD 19 effector function in vivo. However, it still remains unclear
     how the CART 19 cells evade the rejection by the human host given that the CAR19
 15   construct contains both murine sequences (the antibody determinants) and unique
     junctional fragments between the different components of the CAR19 construct.
                     Thus, there still remains a need in the art as to the mechanism of long
     term persistence of the CART 19 cells and why these cells are not rejected by the
     human host. The present invention addresses this need.
20
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                     The invention provides a method of depleting B cells in a subject. In
      one embodiment, the method comprises administering to a subject an effective
      amount of a cell genetically modified to express a CAR wherein the CAR comprises
25    an antigen binding domain, a costimulatory signaling region, and a CD3 zeta
      signaling domain, wherein the antigen binding domain targets a B cell surface marker,
     thereby depleting B cells in the subject.
                     The invention provides a method of promoting tolerance in a subject.
      In one embodiment, the method comprises administering to a subject an effective
30    amount of a cell genetically modified to express a CAR wherein the CAR comprises
      an antigen binding domain, a costimulatory signaling region, and a CD3 zeta
      signaling domain, wherein the antigen binding domain targets a B cell surface marker,
     thereby promoting tolerance in the subject.
                                                     2

WO 2014/012001                                                            PCT/US2013/050293
                     In one embodiment, the tolerance is transplant tolerance to a
     transplanted tissue.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell depletes B cells.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell is administered at the
  5  same time as the transplanted tissue.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell is administered
     before the administration of the transplanted tissue.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell is administered after
     the administration of transplanted tissue.
 10                  The invention provides a method for treating graft versus host disease
     (GVHD). In one embodiment, the method comprises administering a cell genetically
     modified to express a CAR to a subject in need thereof, wherein the CAR comprises
     an antigen binding domain, a costimulatory signaling region, and a CD3 zeta
     signaling domain, wherein the antigen binding domain targets a B cell surface marker,
 15  thereby treating GVHD in the subject.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell depletes B cells.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell is administered at the
     same time as a transplanted tissue.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell is administered
20   before the administration of the transplanted tissue.
                     In one embodiment, the genetically modified cell is administered after
     the administration of the transplanted tissue.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
25                   The following detailed description of preferred embodiments of the
     invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended
     drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there are shown in the
     drawings embodiments which are presently preferred. It should be understood,
     however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and
30   instrumentalities of the embodiments shown in the drawings.
                     Figure 1, comprising Figures 1A through IF, is a series of images
     demonstrating sustained in vivo expansion and persistence in blood and marrow of
     CART 19 cells. DNA isolated from whole blood as depicted in Figure 1A through IC
     or marrow as depicted in Figure ID through IF, samples obtained from UPN 01 as
                                                    3

   depicted in Figure 1A and ID, UPN 02 as depicted in Figure 1B and 1E and UPN 03
   as depicted in Figure IC and IF was subjected in bulk to Q-PCR analysis using a
   qualified assay to detect and quantify CART 19 sequences. Each data point represents
   the average of triplicate measurements on 100-200 ng genomic DNA, with maximal
 5 % CV less than 1.56%. Pass/fail parameters for the assay included pre-established
   ranges for slope and efficiency of amplification, and amplification of a reference
   sample. The lower limit of quantification for the assay established by the standard
   curve range was 2 copies transgene/microgram genomic DNA; sample values below
   that number are considered estimates and presented if at least 2/3 replicates generated
10 a Ct value with % CV for the values 15%. CART19 cells were infused at day 0, 1, and
   2 for UPN 01 and UPN 03, and days 0, 1, 2 and II for UPN 02.
                   Figure 2, comprising Figures 2A through 2C, is a series of images
   depicting prolonged surface CART 19 expression and establishment of functional
   memory CARs in vivo. Figure 2A depicts detection of CAR-expressing CD3+
15 lymphocytes and absence of B cells in periphery and marrow. Freshly processed
   peripheral blood or marrow mononuclear cells obtained from UPN 03 at day 169
   post-CART 19 cell infusion were evaluated by flow-cytometry for surface expression
   of CAR19 (top) or presence of B cells (bottom); as a control, PBMC obtained from a
   healthy donor ND365 were stained. To evaluate CAR19 expression in CD3+
20 lymphocytes, samples were co-stained with antibodies to CD14-PE-Cy7 and CD16
   PE-Cy7 (dump channel) and CD3-FITC, positively gated on CD3+, and evaluated for
   CAR19 expression in the CD8+ and CD8-lymphocyte compartments by co-staining
   with CD8a-PE and the anti-CAR19 idiotype antibody conjugated to Alexa-647. Data
   in plots are gated on the dump channel-negative/CD3 -positive cell population. To
25 evaluate the presence of B cells, samples were co-stained with antibodies to CD14
   APC and CD3-FITC (dump channels) and evaluated for the presence of B cells in the
   dump channel-negative fraction by co-staining with antibodies to CD20-PE and
   CD19-PE-Cy-7. In all cases, negative gate quadrants were established on no-stain
   controls as depicted in Figures 2B and 2C. T cell immunophenotyping of CD4+
30 (Figure 2B) and CD8+ (Figure 2C) T cell subsets is shown. Frozen peripheral blood
   samples from UPN 03 obtained by apheresis at day 56 and 169 post T cell infusion
   were rested overnight in culture medium with no added factors, washed, and subjected
   to multi-parametric immunophenotyping for expression of markers of T cell memory,
   activation, and exhaustion. The gating strategy, as depicted in Figure 6, involved an
                                                4

   initial gating on dump channel (CD14, CD16, Live/Dead Aqua)-negative and CD3
   positive cells, followed by positive gates on CD4+ and CD8+ cells. Gates and
   quadrants were established using FMO controls (CAR, CD45RA, PD-1, CD25,
   CD 127, CCR7) or by gating on positive cell populations (CD3, CD4, CD8) and
 5 clearly delineated subsets (CD27, CD28, CD57); data were displayed after bi
   exponential transformation for objective visualization of events. Functional
   competence of persisting CAR cells were shown in the following experiments. Frozen
   peripheral blood samples from UPN 03 obtained by apheresis at day 56 and 169 post
   T cell infusion were rested overnight in culture medium with no added factors,
10 washed, and evaluated directly ex-vivo for the ability to recognize CD 19-expressing
   target cells using CD 107 degranulation assays. Following a two-hour incubation in
   the presence of anti-CD28, anti-CD49d, and CD107-FITC, cell mixtures were
   harvested, washed, and subjected to multi-parametric flow cytometric analysis to
   evaluate the ability of CART19 cells to de-granulate in response to CD 19-expressing
15 targets. The gating strategy involved an initial gate on dump channels (CD14-PE-Cy7,
   CD16-PE-Cy7, Live/Dead Aqua)-negative and CD3-PE-positive cells, followed by
   gating on CD8-PE-Texas Red-positive cells; presented data is for the CD8+ gated
   population. In all cases, negative gate quadrants were established on no-stain controls.
                    Figure 3, comprising Figures 3A through 3C, is series of images
20 depicting the results of experiments evaluating clinical responses after infusion of
   CART19 cells. Figure 3A depicts that UPN 02 was treated with two cycles of
   rituximab and bendamustine with minimal response (R/B, arrow). CART19 T cells
   were infused beginning 4 days after bendamustine only (B, arrow). The rituximab and
   bendamustine-resistant leukemia was rapidly cleared from blood, as indicated by a
25 decrease in the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) from 60,600/pl to     2 0 0 /pl within 18
   days of the infusion. Corticosteroid treatment was started on day 18 post infusion due
   to malaise and non-infectious febrile syndrome. The reference line (dotted) indicates
   upper limit of normal for ALC. Figure 3B depicts the results of example experiments
   staining sequential bone marrow biopsy or clot specimens from patient UPN 01 and
30 03 for CD20. Pretreatment infiltration with leukemia present in both patients was
   absent on post treatment specimens accompanied by normalization of cellularity and
   tri-lineage hematopoiesis. UPN 01 has not had any CLL cells detected as assessed by
   flow cytometry, cytogenetics and fluorescence in-situ hybridization or normal B cells
   detected by flow cytometry in bone marrow or blood. UPN 03 had 5% residual
                                                 5

WO 2014/012001                                                            PCT/US2013/050293
     normal CD5-negative B cells confirmed by flow cytometry on day +23, which also
     showed them to be polyclonal; no normal B cells were detected at day +176. Figure
     3C depicts the results of experiments using sequential CT imaging to assess the rapid
     resolution of chemotherapy-resistant generalized lymphadenopathy. Bilateral axillary
  5  masses resolved by 83 (UPN 01) and 31 (UPN 03) days post infusion, as indicated by
     arrows and circle.
                     Figure 4, comprising Figures 4A through 4C, is a series of images
     depicting absolute lymphocyte counts and total CART 19+ cells in circulation for
     UPN 01, 02, 03. The total number of lymphocytes (Total normal and CLL cells) vs.
 10  Total CART19+ cells in circulation is plotted for all 3 subjects using the absolute
     lymphocyte count from CBC values, and assuming a 5.0 L volume of blood. The total
     number of CART 19 cells in circulation was calculated by using the tandem CBC
     values with absolute lymphocyte counts and the Q-PCR marking values as depicted in
     Figure 1, converting copies/pg DNA to average % marking as described elsewhere
 15  herein. The Q-PCR % marking was found to correlate closely (<2 fold variation) with
     the flow cytometric characterization of the infusion products and with data from
     samples where concomitant flow cytometry data was available to directly enumerate
     CART19 cells by staining.
                     Figure 5, comprising Figures 5A through 5D is a series of images
20   depicting experiments involving the direct ex vivo detection of CART19-positive cells
     in UPN-01 PBMC 71 days post-T cell infusion. UPN-01 PBMC collected either fresh
     post-apheresis on day71 day post infusion, or frozen at the time of apheresis for
     manufacture of the T cell product(baseline) and viably thawed prior to the staining,
     were subjected to flow-cytometric analysis to detect the presence ofCART19 cells
25   that express the CAR19 moiety on the surface. To evaluate the expression of CAR19
     in lymphocytes, samples were co-stained with CD3-PE and the anti-CAR19 idiotype
     antibody conjugated to Alexa-647, or co-stained with CD3-PE alone (FMO for
     CAR19). Figure 5A depicts that an initial lymphocyte gate was established based on
     forward and side scatter (FSC vs. SSC), followed by gating on CD3+ cells. Figure 5B
30   depicts CD3+ lymphocyte gate; Figure 5C depicts CAR idiotype stain; Figure 5D
     depicts CAR idiotype FMO. The CAR19-positive gate was established on the CAR19
     FMO samples.
                     Figure 6, comprising Figures 6A through 6C, is a series of images
     depicting the gating strategy to identify CART 19 expression by using polychromatic
                                                  6

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     flow cytometry in UPN 03 blood specimens. The gating strategy for Figure 6C is
     shown for the UPN 03 Day 56 sample and is representative of the strategy used on the
     UPN 03 Day 169 sample. Figure 6A depicts primary gate: Dump (CD14, CD16,
     LIVE/dead Aqua) negative, CD3-positive. Figure 6B depicts secondary gates: CD4
  5  positive, CD8-positive. Figure 6C depicts tertiary gates: CAR19-positive and CAR19
     negative, established on CAR FMO samples (right-most panels).
                     Figure 7 is an image summarizing the patient demographics and
     response.
                     Figure 8 is an image depicting long term expression of CART 19.
 10                  Figure 9, comprising Figures 9A and 9B, is a series of images
     depicting deep B cell aplasia.
                     Figure 10 is an image demonstrating a reduction in plasma cells in all 3
     patients.
 15                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                     The present invention is based in part on the surprising discovery that
     T cells expressing an anti-CD19 CAR including both CD3z and the 4-1BB
     costimulatory domain (CART 19 cells) persisted in a mammalian host for a long
     period time. For example, at this time, cells expressing surface CAR19 have been
20   observed to be present in a mammalian host for over 21 months after CAR19 T cell
     infusion. Accordingly, the present invention provides a method for depleting normal
     B cells in a mammal by administering to the mammal in need thereof a CAR that
     targets B cells in order to induce tolerance in the mammal.
                     The invention relates to compositions and methods for depleting B
25   cells, and therefore inducing tolerance. The present invention relates to a method of
     adoptive cell transfer of T cells transduced to express a chimeric antigen receptor
     (CAR). CARs are molecules that combine antibody-based specificity for a target
     antigen (e.g., B cell antigen) with a T cell receptor-activating intracellular domain to
     generate a chimeric protein that exhibits a specific anti-B cell cellular immune
30   activity.
                     In one embodiment, the CAR of the invention comprises an
     extracellular domain having an antigen recognition domain that targets a B cell
     antigen, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain.
                                                    7

WO 2014/012001                                                               PCT/US2013/050293
                      In one embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention can be generated
     by introducing a lentiviral vector comprising a desired CAR. The CAR T cells of the
     invention are able to replicate in vivo resulting in long-term persistence that can lead
     to sustained B cell depletion and tolerance.
  5                   In one embodiment the invention relates to administering a genetically
     modified T cell expressing a CAR to effectively reduce the incidence, severity, or
     duration of graft versus host disease (GVHD), a rejection episode, or post-transplant
     lymphoproliferative disorder.
 10  Definitions
                      Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
     have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to
     which the invention pertains. Although any methods and materials similar or
     equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice for testing of the
 15  present invention, the preferred materials and methods are described herein. In
     describing and claiming the present invention, the following terminology will be used.
                      It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
     purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
                      The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more
20   than one (i.e., to at least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of
     example, "an element" means one element or more than one element.
                      "About" as used herein when referring to a measurable value such as
     an amount, a temporal duration, and the like, is meant to encompass variations of
     ±20% or ±10%, in some instances        ±5%, in some instances ±1%, and in some
25   instances ±0.1 % from the specified value, as such variations are appropriate to
     perform the disclosed methods.
                      "Activation," as used herein, refers to the state of a T cell that has been
     sufficiently stimulated to induce detectable cellular proliferation. Activation can also
     be associated with induced cytokine production, and detectable effector functions.
30   The term "activated T cells" refers to, among other things, T cells that are undergoing
     cell division.
                      The term "antibody," as used herein, refers to an immunoglobulin
     molecule which specifically binds with an antigen. Antibodies can be intact
     immunoglobulins derived from natural sources or from recombinant sources and can
                                                     8

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     be immunoreactive portions of intact immunoglobulins. Antibodies are often
     tetramers of immunoglobulin molecules. The antibodies in the present invention may
     exist in a variety of forms including, for example, polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
     antibodies, Fv, Fab and F(ab) 2 , as well as single chain antibodies and humanized
  5  antibodies (Harlow et al., 1999, In: Using Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold
     Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, NY; Harlow et al., 1989, In: Antibodies: A
     Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor, New York; Houston et al., 1988, Proc. Natl.
     Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883; Bird et al., 1988, Science 242:423-426).
                      The term "antibody fragment" refers to a portion of an intact antibody
 10  and refers to the antigenic determining variable regions of an intact antibody.
     Examples of antibody fragments include, but are not limited to, Fab, Fab', F(ab')2,
     and Fv fragments, linear antibodies, scFv antibodies, and multispecific antibodies
     formed from antibody fragments.
                      The term "antigen" or "Ag" as used herein is defined as a molecule
 15  that provokes an immune response. This immune response may involve either
     antibody production, or the activation of specific immunologically-competent cells, or
     both. The skilled artisan will understand that any macromolecule, including virtually
     all proteins or peptides, can serve as an antigen. Furthermore, antigens can be derived
     from recombinant or genomic DNA. A skilled artisan will understand that any DNA,
20   which comprises a nucleotide sequences or a partial nucleotide sequence encoding a
     protein that elicits an immune response therefore encodes an "antigen" as that term is
     used herein. Furthermore, one skilled in the art will understand that an antigen need
     not be encoded solely by a full length nucleotide sequence of a gene. It is readily
     apparent that the present invention includes, but is not limited to, the use of partial
25   nucleotide sequences of more than one gene and that these nucleotide sequences are
     arranged in various combinations to elicit the desired immune response. Moreover, a
     skilled artisan will understand that an antigen need not be encoded by a "gene" at all.
     It is readily apparent that an antigen can be generated synthesized or can be derived
     from a biological sample. Such a biological sample can include, but is not limited to a
30   tissue sample, a tumor sample, a cell or a biological fluid.
                      The term "auto-antigen" means, in accordance with the present
     invention, any self-antigen which is recognized by the immune system as if it were
     foreign. Auto-antigens comprise, but are not limited to, cellular proteins,
                                                     9

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
     phosphoproteins, cellular surface proteins, cellular lipids, nucleic acids, glycoproteins,
     including cell surface receptors.
                     The term "autoimmune disease" as used herein is defined as a disorder
     that results from an autoimmune response. An autoimmune disease is the result of an
  5  inappropriate and excessive response to a self-antigen. Examples of autoimmune
     diseases include but are not limited to, Addision's disease, alopecia greata, ankylosing
     spondylitis, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune parotitis, Crohn's disease, diabetes
     (Type I), dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, epididymitis, glomerulonephritis, Graves'
     disease, Guillain-Barr syndrome, Hashimoto's disease, hemolytic anemia, systemic
 10  lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, pemphigus vulgaris,
     psoriasis, rheumatic fever, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, scleroderma, Sjogren's
     syndrome, spondyloarthropathies, thyroiditis, vasculitis, vitiligo, myxedema,
     pernicious anemia, ulcerative colitis, among others.
                     As used herein, the term "autologous" is meant to refer to any material
 15  derived from the same individual to which it is later to be re-introduced into the
     individual.
                     "Allogeneic" refers to a graft derived from a different animal of the
     same species.
                     "Xenogeneic" refers to a graft derived from an animal of a different
20   species.
                     A "B cell surface marker" as used herein is an antigen expressed on the
     surface of a B cell which can be targeted with an agent which binds thereto.
     Exemplary B cell surface markers include the CD10, CD19, CD20, CD21, CD22,
     CD23, CD24, CD25, CD37, CD53, CD72, CD73, CD74, CD75, CD77, CD79a,
25   CD79b, CD80, CD81, CD82, CD83, CD84, CD85 and CD86 leukocyte surface
     markers. The B cell surface marker of particular interest is preferentially expressed on
     B cells compared to other non-B cell tissues of a mammal and may be expressed on
     both precursor B cells and mature B cells. In one embodiment, the preferred marker is
     CD 19, which is found on B cells throughout differentiation of the lineage from the
30   pro/pre-B cell stage through the terminally differentiated plasma cell stage.
                     As used herein, "B cell depletion" refers to a reduction in B cell levels
     in an animal or human after drug, cellular or antibody treatment, as compared to the
     level before treatment. B cell levels are measurable using well known assays such as
     by getting a complete blood count, by FACS analysis staining for known B cell
                                                   10

WO 2014/012001                                                               PCT/US2013/050293
     markers, and by methods described elsewhere herein. B cell depletion can be partial
     or complete. In one embodiment, the depletion of B cells is 25% or more.
                      The terms "deplete" and "depletion" are used herein in reference to B
     cells, and for purposes of the specification and claims, to mean one or more of:
  5  blocking of B cell function; functional inactivation of B cells; cytolysis of B cells;
     inhibiting the proliferation of B cells; inhibiting the differentiation of B cells to
     plasma cells; causing a B cell dysfunction which results in a therapeutic benefit;
     inhibiting production of anti-shed antigen antibody; reduction in the number of B
     cells; inactivation of B cells which have been primed or activated by shed antigen;
 10  blocking of one or more functions of B cells which have been primed or activated by
     shed antigen; cytolysis of B cells which have been primed or activated by shed
     antigen; and reduction in the number of B cells which have been primed or activated
     by shed antigen. B cell depletion may be a result of one or more mechanisms
     including, but not limited to, clonal inactivation, apoptosis, antibody-dependent
 15  cellular cytotoxicity, complement-mediated cytotoxicity, and a signal pathway
     mediated inactivation, dysfunction, or cell death.
                      The term "cancer" as used herein is defined as disease characterized by
     the rapid and uncontrolled growth of aberrant cells. Cancer cells can spread locally or
     through the bloodstream and lymphatic system to other parts of the body. Examples of
20   various cancers include but are not limited to, breast cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian
     cancer, cervical cancer, skin cancer, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer,
     liver cancer, brain cancer, lymphoma, leukemia, lung cancer and the like.
                      The "CD 19" antigen refers to an antigen of about 90 kDa which can be
     identified, for example, by the HD237 or B4 antibody (Kiesel et al., 1987 Leukemia
25   Research II, 12:1119). CD19 is found on cells throughout differentiation of B-lineage
     cells from the stem cell stage through terminal differentiation into plasma cells,
     including but not limited to, pre-B cells, B cells (including naive B cells, antigen
     stimulated B cells, memory B cells, plasma cells, and B lymphocytes) and follicular
     dendritic cells. CD19 is also found on B cells in human fetal tissue. In preferred
30   embodiments, the CD19 antigen targeted by the antibodies of the invention is the
     human CD19 antigen.
                      "Co-stimulatory ligand," as the term is used herein, includes a
     molecule on an antigen presenting cell (e.g., an aAPC, dendritic cell, B cell, and the
     like) that specifically binds a cognate co-stimulatory molecule on a T cell, thereby
                                                     11

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     providing a signal which, in addition to the primary signal provided by, for instance,
     binding of a TCR/CD3 complex with an MHC molecule loaded with peptide,
     mediates a T cell response, including, but not limited to, proliferation, activation,
     differentiation, and the like. A co-stimulatory ligand can include, but is not limited to,
  5  CD7, B7-1 (CD80), B7-2 (CD86), PD-Li, PD-L2, 4-1BBL, OX40L, inducible
     costimulatory ligand (ICOS-L), intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM), CD30L,
     CD40, CD70, CD83, HLA-G, MICA, MICB, HVEM, lymphotoxin beta receptor,
     3/TR6, ILT3, ILT4, HVEM, an agonist or antibody that binds Toll ligand receptor and
     a ligand that specifically binds with B7-H3. A co-stimulatory ligand also
 10  encompasses, inter alia, an antibody that specifically binds with a co-stimulatory
     molecule present on a T cell, such as, but not limited to, CD27, CD28, 4-1BB, OX40,
     CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS, lymphocyte function-associated antigen-i (LFA-1), CD2,
     CD7, LIGHT, NKG2C, B7-H3, and a ligand that specifically binds with CD83.
                     A "co-stimulatory molecule" refers to the cognate binding partner on a
 15  T cell that specifically binds with a co-stimulatory ligand, thereby mediating a co
     stimulatory response by the T cell, such as, but not limited to, proliferation. Co
     stimulatory molecules include, but are not limited to an MHC class I molecule, BTLA
     and a Toll ligand receptor.
                     A "co-stimulatory signal," as used herein, refers to a signal, which in
20   combination with a primary signal, such as TCR/CD3 ligation, leads to T cell
     proliferation and/or upregulation or downregulation of key molecules.
                     A "disease" is a state of health of an animal wherein the animal cannot
     maintain homeostasis, and wherein if the disease is not ameliorated then the animal's
     health continues to deteriorate. In contrast, a "disorder" in an animal is a state of
25   health in which the animal is able to maintain homeostasis, but in which the animal's
     state of health is less favorable than it would be in the absence of the disorder. Left
     untreated, a disorder does not necessarily cause a further decrease in the animal's state
     of health.
                     An "effective amount" as used herein, means an amount which
30   provides a therapeutic or prophylactic benefit.
                     As used herein "endogenous" refers to any material from or produced
     inside an organism, cell, tissue or system.
                                                    12

WO 2014/012001                                                            PCT/US2013/050293
                      As used herein, the term "exogenous" refers to any material introduced
     to an organism, cell, tissue or system that was produced outside the organism, cell,
     tissue or system.
                      The term "expression" as used herein is defined as the transcription
  5  and/or translation of a particular nucleotide sequence driven by its promoter.
                      "Expression vector" refers to a vector comprising a recombinant
     polynucleotide comprising expression control sequences operatively linked to a
     nucleotide sequence to be expressed. An expression vector comprises sufficient cis
     acting elements for expression; other elements for expression can be supplied by the
 10  host cell or in an in vitro expression system. Expression vectors include all those
     known in the art, such as cosmids, plasmids (e.g., naked or contained in liposomes)
     and viruses (e.g., lentiviruses, retroviruses, adenoviruses, and adeno-associated
     viruses) that incorporate the recombinant polynucleotide.
                      "Homologous" refers to the sequence similarity or sequence identity
 15  between two polypeptides or between two nucleic acid molecules. When a position in
     both of the two compared sequences is occupied by the same base or amino acid
     monomer subunit, e.g., if a position in each of two DNA molecules is occupied by
     adenine, then the molecules are homologous at that position. The percent of homology
     between two sequences is a function of the number of matching or homologous
20   positions shared by the two sequences divided by the number of positions compared
     X 100. For example, if 6 of 10 of the positions in two sequences are matched or
     homologous then the two sequences are 60% homologous. By way of example, the
     DNA sequences ATTGCC and TATGGC share 50% homology. Generally, a
     comparison is made when two sequences are aligned to give maximum homology.
25                    The term "immunoglobulin" or "Ig," as used herein, is defined as a
     class of proteins, which function as antibodies. Antibodies expressed by B cells are
     sometimes referred to as the BCR (B cell receptor) or antigen receptor. The five
     members included in this class of proteins are IgA, IgG, IgM, IgD, and IgE. IgA is the
     primary antibody that is present in body secretions, such as saliva, tears, breast milk,
30   gastrointestinal secretions and mucus secretions of the respiratory and genitourinary
     tracts. IgG is the most common circulating antibody. IgM is the main immunoglobulin
     produced in the primary immune response in most subjects. It is the most efficient
     immunoglobulin in agglutination, complement fixation, and other antibody responses,
     and is important in defense against bacteria and viruses. IgD is the immunoglobulin
                                                    13

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     that has no known antibody function, but may serve as an antigen receptor. IgE is the
     immunoglobulin that mediates immediate hypersensitivity by causing release of
     mediators from mast cells and basophils upon exposure to allergen.
                      As used herein, the term "immune response" includes T cell mediated
  5  and/or B cell mediated immune responses. Exemplary immune responses include T
     cell responses, e.g., cytokine production and cellular cytotoxicity. In addition, the
     term immune response includes immune responses that are indirectly effected by T
     cell activation, e.g., antibody production (humoral responses) and activation of
     cytokine responsive cells, e.g., macrophages. Immune cells involved in the immune
 10  response include lymphocytes, such as B cells and T cells (CD4+, CD8+, Th1 and
     Th2 cells); antigen presenting cells (e.g., professional antigen presenting cells such as
     dendritic cells, macrophages, B lymphocytes, Langerhans cells, and non-professional
     antigen presenting cells such as keratinocytes, endothelial cells, astrocytes,
     fibroblasts, oligodendrocytes); natural killer cells; myeloid cells, such as
 15  macrophages, eosinophils, mast cells, basophils, and granulocytes.
                      As used herein, the term "immunological tolerance" refers to methods
     performed on a proportion of treated subjects in comparison with untreated subjects
     where: a) a decreased level of a specific immunological response (thought to be
     mediated at least in part by antigen-specific effector T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes,
20   antibody, or their equivalents); b) a delay in the onset or progression of a specific
     immunological response; or c) a reduced risk of the onset or progression of a specific
     immunological response. "Specific" immunological tolerance occurs when
     immunological tolerance is preferentially invoked against certain antigens in
     comparison with others.
25                    As used herein, an "instructional material" includes a publication, a
     recording, a diagram, or any other medium of expression which can be used to
     communicate the usefulness of the compositions and methods of the invention. The
     instructional material of the kit of the invention may, for example, be affixed to a
     container which contains the nucleic acid, peptide, and/or composition of the
30   invention or be shipped together with a container which contains the nucleic acid,
     peptide, and/or composition. Alternatively, the instructional material may be shipped
     separately from the container with the intention that the instructional material and the
     compound be used cooperatively by the recipient.
                      "Isolated" means altered or removed from the natural state. For
                                                    14

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     example, a nucleic acid or a peptide naturally present in a living animal is not
     "isolated," but the same nucleic acid or peptide partially or completely separated from
     the coexisting materials of its natural state is "isolated." An isolated nucleic acid or
     protein can exist in substantially purified form, or can exist in a non-native
  5  environment such as, for example, a host cell.
                      A "lentivirus" as used herein refers to a genus of the Retroviridae
     family. Lentiviruses are unique among the retroviruses in being able to infect non
     dividing cells; they can deliver a significant amount of genetic information into the
     DNA of the host cell, so they are one of the most efficient methods of a gene delivery
 10  vector. HIV, SIV, and FIV are all examples of lentiviruses. Vectors derived from
     lentiviruses offer the means to achieve significant levels of gene transfer in vivo.
                      By the term "modulating," as used herein, is meant mediating a
     detectable increase or decrease in the level of a response in a subject compared with
     the level of a response in the subject in the absence of a treatment or compound,
 15  and/or compared with the level of a response in an otherwise identical but untreated
     subject. The term encompasses perturbing and/or affecting a native signal or response
     thereby mediating a beneficial therapeutic response in a subject, preferably, a human.
                      "Parenteral" administration of an immunogenic composition includes,
     e.g., subcutaneous (s.c.), intravenous (i.v.), intramuscular (i.m.), or intrasternal
20   injection, or infusion techniques.
                      The terms "patient," "subject," "individual," and the like are used
     interchangeably herein, and refer to any animal, or cells thereof whether in vitro or in
     situ, amenable to the methods described herein. In certain non-limiting embodiments,
     the patient, subject or individual is a human.
25                    The term "rejection" refers to a state in which a transplanted organ or
     tissue is not accepted by the body of the recipient. Rejection results from the
     recipient's immune system attacking the transplanted organ or tissue. Rejection can
     occur days to weeks after transplantation (acute) or months to years after
     transplantation (chronic).
30                    By the term "specifically binds," as used herein with respect to an
     antibody, is meant an antibody which recognizes a specific antigen, but does not
     substantially recognize or bind other molecules in a sample. For example, an antibody
     that specifically binds to an antigen from one species may also bind to that antigen
     from one or more species. But, such cross-species reactivity does not itself alter the
                                                     15

WO 2014/012001                                                               PCT/US2013/050293
     classification of an antibody as specific. In another example, an antibody that
     specifically binds to an antigen may also bind to different allelic forms of the antigen.
     However, such cross reactivity does not itself alter the classification of an antibody as
     specific. In some instances, the terms "specific binding" or "specifically binding," can
  5  be used in reference to the interaction of an antibody, a protein, or a peptide with a
     second chemical species, to mean that the interaction is dependent upon the presence
     of a particular structure (e.g., an antigenic determinant or epitope) on the chemical
     species; for example, an antibody recognizes and binds to a specific protein structure
     rather than to proteins generally. If an antibody is specific for epitope "A," the
 10  presence of a molecule containing epitope A (or free, unlabeled A), in a reaction
     containing labeled "A" and the antibody, will reduce the amount of labeled A bound
     to the antibody.
                     By the term "stimulation," is meant a primary response induced by
     binding of a stimulatory molecule (e.g., a TCR/CD3 complex) with its cognate ligand
 15  thereby mediating a signal transduction event, such as, but not limited to, signal
     transduction via the TCR/CD3 complex. Stimulation can mediate altered expression
     of certain molecules, such as downregulation of TGF-p, and/or reorganization of
     cytoskeletal structures, and the like.
                     A "stimulatory molecule," as the term is used herein, means a
20   molecule on a T cell that specifically binds with a cognate stimulatory ligand present
     on an antigen presenting cell.
                     A "stimulatory ligand," as used herein, means a ligand that when
     present on an antigen presenting cell (e.g., an aAPC, a dendritic cell, a B-cell, and the
     like) can specifically bind with a cognate binding partner (referred to herein as a
25   "stimulatory molecule") on a T cell, thereby mediating a primary response by the T
     cell, including, but not limited to, activation, initiation of an immune response,
     proliferation, and the like. Stimulatory ligands are well-known in the art and
     encompass, inter alia, an MHC Class I molecule loaded with a peptide, an anti-CD3
     antibody, a superagonist anti-CD28 antibody, and a superagonist anti-CD2 antibody.
30                   The term "subject" is intended to include living organisms in which an
     immune response can be elicited (e.g., mammals). Examples of subjects include
     humans, dogs, cats, mice, rats, and transgenic species thereof.
                     As used herein, a "substantially purified" cell is a cell that is
     essentially free of other cell types. A substantially purified cell also refers to a cell
                                                    16

WO 2014/012001                                                                PCT/US2013/050293
     which has been separated from other cell types with which it is normally associated in
     its naturally occurring state. In some instances, a population of substantially purified
     cells refers to a homogenous population of cells. In other instances, this term refers
     simply to cell that have been separated from the cells with which they are naturally
  5  associated in their natural state. In some embodiments, the cells are cultured in vitro.
     In other embodiments, the cells are not cultured in vitro.
                      The term "therapeutic" as used herein means a treatment and/or
     prophylaxis. A therapeutic effect is obtained by suppression, remission, or eradication
     of a disease state.
 10                   The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to the amount of the
     subject compound that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue,
     system, or subject that is being sought by the researcher, veterinarian, medical doctor
     or other clinician. The term "therapeutically effective amount" includes that amount
     of a compound that, when administered, is sufficient to prevent development of, or
 15  alleviate to some extent, one or more of the signs or symptoms of the disorder or
     disease being treated. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the
     compound, the disease and its severity and the age, weight, etc., of the subject to be
     treated.
                      A "transplant," as used herein, refers to cells, tissue, or an organ that is
20   introduced into an individual. The source of the transplanted material can be cultured
     cells, cells from another individual, or cells from the same individual (e.g., after the
     cells are cultured in vitro). Exemplary organ transplants are kidney, liver, heart, lung,
     and pancreas.
                      To "treat" a disease as the term is used herein, means to reduce the
25   frequency or severity of at least one sign or symptom of a disease or disorder
     experienced by a subject.
                      The term "transfected" or "transformed" or "transduced" as used
     herein refers to a process by which exogenous nucleic acid is transferred or
     introduced into the host cell. A "transfected" or "transformed" or "transduced" cell is
30   one which has been transfected, transformed or transduced with exogenous nucleic
     acid. The cell includes the primary subject cell and its progeny.
                      The term "tolerant" refers to an individual with a reduced or absent
     immune response to a specific antigen or group of antigens. In the context of the
     invention, an individual is considered tolerant if he or she does not reject (i.e., mount
                                                     17

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     a significant immune response against) transplanted cells. In some cases, the tolerant
     individual does not reject transplanted cells, even in the absence of
     immunosuppressive therapy. In the context of the invention, an individual is
     considered "non-tolerant" if the individual rejects transplanted cells. Non-tolerant
  5  individuals include those where rejection is controlled using immunosuppressive
     therapy (e.g., standard immunosuppression), as well as those that are experiencing an
     active immune response against transplanted cells.
                      As used herein, "in vivo tolerance" refers to the substantial lack of
     immune response specific for the foreign tissue. The immune response may stem from
 10  the recipient subject mounting an immune response to a foreign tissue, or conversely,
     the immune response may stem from the foreign tissue mounting an immune response
     to the recipient subject (e.g. GVHD). Methods of measuring in vivo tolerance are
     commonly known in the art.
                      Ranges: throughout this disclosure, various aspects of the invention
 15  can be presented in a range format. It should be understood that the description in
     range format is merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an
     inflexible limitation on the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the description of a
     range should be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible subranges as
     well as individual numerical values within that range. For example, description of a
20   range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed
     subranges such as from 1 to 3, from 1 to 4, from 1 to 5, from 2 to 4, from 2 to 6, from
     3 to 6 etc., as well as individual numbers within that range, for example, 1, 2, 2.7, 3,
     4, 5, 5.3, and 6. This applies regardless of the breadth of the range.
25   Description
                      The present invention provides compositions and methods for
     depleting normal B cells in a mammal. In one embodiment, depletion of B cells using
     the CAR of the invention induces tolerance in the mammal.
                      In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
30   inducing in vivo tolerance to transplanted foreign tissue. In some embodiments, the
     method may be used, in part, to prevent and/or treat the rejection of a transplanted
     tissue. Generally speaking, the method comprises administering a CAR T cell of the
     invention to a subject exposed to transplanted foreign tissue. The term "foreign
     tissue," as used herein, may encompass a bone marrow transplant, an organ transplant,
                                                    18

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     a blood transfusion, or any other foreign tissue or cell that is purposefully introduced
     into a subject.
                     In another embodiment, the method may be used, in part, to prevent
     and/or treat graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Generally speaking, the method
  5  comprises administering a CAR T cell of the invention to a subject exposed to
     transplanted foreign tissue. The term "foreign tissue," as used herein, may encompass
     a bone marrow transplant, an organ transplant, a blood transfusion, or any other
     foreign tissue or cell that is purposefully introduced into a subject.
                     In one embodiment, the CAR of the invention can be engineered to
 10  comprise an extracellular domain having an antigen binding domain that targets a B
     cell antigen fused to an intracellular signaling domain of the T cell antigen receptor
     complex zeta chain (e.g., CD3 zeta). An exemplary B cell antigen is CD19 because
     this antigen is expressed on malignant B cells. However, the invention is not limited
     to targeting CD 19. Rather, the invention includes any B cell antigen binding moiety
 15  that when bound to its cognate antigen. The antigen binding moiety is preferably
     fused with an intracellular domain from one or more of a costimulatory molecule and
     a zeta chain. Preferably, the antigen binding moiety is fused with one or more
     intracellular domains selected from the group of a CD 137 (4-1BB) signaling domain,
     a CD28 signaling domain, a CD3zeta signal domain, and any combination thereof.
20                   In one embodiment, the CAR of the invention comprises a CD137 (4
      1BB) signaling domain. This is because the present invention is partly based on the
     discovery that CAR-mediated T-cell responses can be further enhanced with the
     addition of costimulatory domains. For example, inclusion of the CD137 (4-1BB)
     signaling domain significantly increased CAR mediated activity and in vivo
25   persistence of CAR T cells compared to an otherwise identical CAR T cell not
     engineered to express CD 137 (4-1BB). However, the invention is not limited to a
     specific CAR. Rather, any CAR that targets a B cell can be used in the present
     invention. Compositions and methods of making CARs have been described in
     PCT/US1 1/6419 1, which is incorporated by reference herein.
30
     Methods
                     The invention relates to methods of using the CAR and CAR T cells of
     the invention to deplete B cells and to promote tolerance. In one embodiment, the
     method includes promoting transplantation tolerance (e.g., of organ or tissue
                                                    19

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     transplants) in a patient. In another embodiment, the method includes the prevention
     and/or treatment of GVHD. In a specific embodiment, the CAR of the invention
     targets CD19 on B cells.
                      In one embodiment, the ability to induce sustained donor humoral
  5  tolerance is a key to achieving robust transplantation tolerance and/or preventing or
     treating GVHD. The invention encompasses the use of the CAR T cells of the
     invention to deplete B cells and to induce tolerance by administering the CAR T cells
     to an animal, preferably a mammal, and most preferably a human, patient for treating
     one or more diseases, disorders, symptoms, or conditions associated with organ or
 10  tissue transplant (e.g., transplant rejection, GVHD and/or conditions associated
     therewith).
                      Organ rejection occurs by host immune cell destruction of the
     transplanted tissue through an immune response. Similarly, an immune response is
     also involved in GVHD, but, in this case, the foreign transplanted immune cells
 15  destroy the host tissues. For example, organ rejection and/or GVHD may occur after
     heart, heart valve, lung, kidney, liver, pancreas, intestine, skin blood vessel, bone
     marrow, stem cell, bone, or islet cell transplantation. However, the invention is not
     limited to a specific type of transplantation. By way of a non-limiting example, an
     islet cell transplantation can be performed to prevent the onset of diabetes or as a
20   treatment of diabetes. The administration of the CAR T cells of the invention that
     inhibit an immune response, particularly the proliferation, differentiation, or survival
     of B-cells, is an effective therapy in preventing organ and/or tissue rejection or
     GVHD. The administration of CAR T cells of the invention also can be used to
     promote transplantation tolerance following organ and/or tissue transplantation.
25                    The CAR T cells of the invention can also be used to promote
     transplantation tolerance; to treat, decrease, inhibit and/or prevent the rejection of
     organ and/or tissue transplants; and/or to decrease antibody titer in a patient who has
     received an organ or tissue transplant. In one embodiment, the CAR T cells of the
     invention can be used to promote transplantation tolerance in a patient by
30   administering to the patient an effective amount of the CAR T cells of the invention,
     thereby preventing or delaying transplant rejection. In another embodiment, the CAR
     T cells of the invention can be used to treat organ or transplant rejection in a patient
     by administering to the patient an effective amount of the CAR T cells of the
     invention, thereby inhibiting transplant organ or tissue rejection. In yet another
                                                    20

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
     embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention can be used to decrease antibody titer
     in a patient who has received, or will receive, an organ or tissue transplant by
     administering to the patient an effective amount of the CAR T cells of the invention,
     thereby decreasing antibody titer.
  5                  In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of promoting
     transplantation tolerance in a patient comprising administering to the patient an
     effective amount of the CAR T cells of the invention thereby delaying transplant
     rejection in the patient.
                     In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating
 10  transplant organ or tissue rejection in a patient comprising administering to the patient
     an effective amount of the CAR T cells of the invention, thereby inhibiting transplant
     organ or tissue rejection in the patient.
                     In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of decreasing
     antibody titer in a patient who has received, or will received, an organ or tissue
 15  transplant comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of the CAR T
     cells of the invention, thereby decreasing antibody titer in the patient.
                     In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of inhibiting or
     reducing immunoglobulin production in a patient comprising administering to the
     patient an effective amount of the CAR T cells of the invention.
20                   In one embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention decrease or
     inhibit B cell function. In another embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention
     deplete or eliminate B cells from the subject. For example, the CAR T cells of the
     invention can be engineered to target a B cell surface antigen in order to allow the T
     cell to exhibit effector functions against the B cell.
25
     Therapy to Inhibit Adverse Immune Responses Following Transplantation
                     The present invention includes a method of using CAR T cells of the
     invention as a therapy to inhibit GVHD or graft rejection following transplantation.
     Accordingly, the present invention encompasses a method of contacting a donor
30   transplant, for example a biocompatible lattice or a donor tissue, organ or cell, with
     CAR T cells of the invention prior to, concurrently with, or after transplantation of the
     transplant into a recipient. The CAR T cells of the invention serve to ameliorate,
     inhibit or reduce an adverse response by the donor transplant against the recipient,
     thereby preventing or treating GVHD.
                                                    21

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
                     As discussed elsewhere herein, T cells can be obtained from any
     source, for example, from the tissue donor, the transplant recipient or an otherwise
     unrelated source (a different individual or species altogether) for generation of CAR T
     cells of the invention for the use of eliminating or reducing an unwanted immune
  5  response by a transplant against a recipient of the transplant. Accordingly, CAR T
     cells of the invention can be autologous, allogeneic or xenogeneic to the tissue donor,
     the transplant recipient or an otherwise unrelated source.
                     In an embodiment of the present invention, the transplant is exposed to
     the CAR T cells of the invention prior, at the same time, or after transplantation of the
 10  transplant into the recipient. In this situation, an immune response against the
     transplant caused by any alloreactive recipient cells would be suppressed by the CAR
     T cells of the invention present in the transplant because the CAR T cells can deplete
     B cells and induce tolerance.
                     In another embodiment of the present invention, the donor transplant
 15  can be "preconditioned" or "pretreated" by treating the transplant prior to
     transplantation into the recipient in order to reduce the immunogenicity of the
     transplant against the recipient, thereby reducing and/or preventing GVHD or graft
     rejection. The transplant can be contacted with cells or a tissue from the recipient
     prior to transplantation in order to activate T cells that may be associated with the
20   transplant. Following the treatment of the transplant with cells or a tissue from the
     recipient, the cells or tissue may be removed from the transplant. The treated
     transplant is then further contacted with CAR T cells of the invention in order to
     reduce, inhibit or eliminate the activity of the T and/or B cells that were activated by
     the treatment of the cells or tissue from the recipient. Following this treatment of the
25   transplant with CAR T cells of the invention, the CAR T cells may be removed from
     the transplant prior to transplantation into the recipient. However, some CAR T cells
     may adhere to the transplant, and therefore, may be introduced to the recipient with
     the transplant. In this situation, the CAR T cells introduced into the recipient can
     suppress an immune response against the recipient caused by any cell associated with
30   the transplant. Without wishing to be bound to any particular theory, the treatment of
     the transplant with CAR T cells prior to transplantation of the transplant into the
     recipient serves to reduce, inhibit or eliminate the activity of the activated T and/or B
     cells, thereby preventing restimulation, or inducing hyporesponsiveness of the T
     and/or cells to subsequent antigenic stimulation from a tissue and/or cells from the
                                                     22

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     recipient. One skilled in the art would understand based upon the present disclosure,
     that preconditioning or pretreatment of the transplant prior to transplantation may
     reduce or eliminate the graft versus host response.
  5  Therapeutic Application
                      In one embodiment, the present invention includes a type of cellular
     therapy where T cells are genetically modified to express a CAR and the CAR T cell
     is infused to a recipient in need thereof. The infused cell is able to kill a targeted cell.
     In one embodiment, the targeted cell is a B cell. Unlike antibody therapies, CAR T
 10  cells are able to replicate in vivo resulting in long-term persistence that can lead to
     sustained B cell depletion and tolerance.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention can undergo
     robust in vivo T cell expansion and can persist for an extended amount of time. In
     another embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention evolve into specific memory T
 15  cells that can be reactivated to inhibit B cell proliferation. For example, a CART 19
     cells elicits an immune response specific against cells expressing CD19.
                      The CAR-modified T cells of the invention may also serve as a type of
     vaccine for ex vivo immunization and/or in vivo therapy in a mammal. Preferably, the
     mammal is a human.
20                    With respect to ex vivo immunization, at least one of the following
     occurs in vitro prior to administering the cell into a mammal: i) expansion of the cells,
     ii) introducing a nucleic acid encoding a CAR to the cells, and/or iii) cryopreservation
     of the cells.
                      Ex vivo procedures are well known in the art and are discussed more
25   fully below. Briefly, cells are isolated from a mammal (preferably a human) and
     genetically modified (i.e., transduced or transfected in vitro) with a vector expressing
     a CAR disclosed herein. The CAR-modified cell can be administered to a mammalian
     recipient to provide a therapeutic benefit. The mammalian recipient may be a human
     and the CAR-modified cell can be autologous with respect to the recipient.
30   Alternatively, the cells can be allogeneic, syngeneic or xenogeneic with respect to the
     recipient.
                      In addition to using a cell-based vaccine in terms of ex vivo
     immunization, the present invention also provides compositions and methods for in
                                                     23

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
     vivo immunization to elicit an immune response directed against a B cell antigen in a
     patient.
                     Generally, the cells activated and expanded as described herein may be
     utilized in the depletion of B cells and induction of tolerance. In particular, the CAR
  5  modified T cells of the invention are used in the treatment of one or more diseases,
     disorders, symptoms, or conditions associated with organ or tissue transplant (e.g.,
     GVHD and/or conditions associated therewith). Thus, the present invention provides
     methods for the treatment or prevention of organ rejection and GVHD comprising
     administering to a subject in need thereof, a therapeutically effective amount of the
 10  CAR-modified T cells of the invention.
                     In one embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention are administered
     in conjunction with an immunosuppressant agent. Any immunosuppressant agent
     known in the art may be used. For example, the immunosuppressant agent may be
     Cyclosporine, Azathioprine, Rapamycin, Mycophenolate mofetil, Mycophenolic acid,
 15  Prednisone, Sirolimus, Basiliximab, or Daclizumab, or any combination thereof.
     Additional specific immunosuppressants that may be used include, but are not limited
     to, ORTHOCLONE OKTTM 3 (muromonab-CD3), SANDIMMUNE                      TM, NEORAL TM,
     SANGDYAT M (cyclosporine), PROGRAF TM (FK506, tacrolimus), CELLCEPTTM
     (mycophenolate motefil, of which the active metabolite is mycophenolic acid),
20   IMURANTM (azathioprine), glucorticosteroids, adrenocortical steroids such as
     DELTASONE TM (prednisone) and HYDELTRASOL TM (prednisolone), FOLEX TM
     and MEXATE TM (methotrxate), OXSORALEN-ULTRAT M (methoxsalen),
                                                     TM
     RITUXAN T M (rituximab), and RAPAMUNE              (sirolimus).
                     The CAR T cells of the invention can be administered to the patient
25   before, after, or concomitant with the immunosuppressant agent. For example, the
     CAR T cells of the invention can be administered after the immunosuppressant agent
     is administered to the patient or the CAR T cells of the invention can be administered
     before the immunosuppressant agent is administered to the patient. Alternatively, or
     in addition, the CAR T cells of the invention are administered at the same time the
30   immunosuppressant agent is administered to the patient.
                     The CAR T cells of the invention and/or the immunosuppressant agent
     can be administered to the patient after transplantation. Alternatively, or in addition,
     the CAR T cells of the invention and/or the immunosuppressant agent can be
     administered to the patient before transplantation. The CAR T cells of the invention
                                                   24

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     and/or the immunosuppressant agent also can be administered to the patient during
     transplantation surgery.
                      In some embodiments, the method of the invention of administering
     CAR T cells to the patient is carried out once immunosuppressive therapy has been
  5  initiated. In some embodiments, the method is carried out more than once, e.g., to
     monitor the transplant recipient over time, and, if applicable, in different
     immunosuppressive therapy regimes. In some embodiments, immunosuppressive
     therapy is reduced if the transplant recipient is predicted to be tolerant of the
     transplant. In some embodiments, no immunosuppressive therapy is prescribed, e.g.,
 10  immunosuppressive therapy is ceased, if the transplant recipient is predicted to be
     tolerant of the transplant. If the transplant recipient demonstrates a non-tolerant
     biomarker signature, immunosuppressive therapy can be restored to or continued at a
     standard level.
                      The organ or tissue transplant may be a heart, heart valve, lung,
 15  kidney, liver, pancreas, intestine, skin, blood vessels, bone marrow, stem cells, bone,
     or, islet cells.
                      The CAR T cells of the invention can be administered following a
     diagnosis of transplant organ or tissue rejection followed by doses of both the CAR T
     cells of the invention and an immunosuppressant agent until symptoms of organ or
20   tissue rejection subside.
                      In some embodiments, the CAR T cells of the invention is
     administered following a diagnosis of increased antibody titer followed by doses of
     both the CAR T cells of the invention and the immunosuppressant agent until
     antibody titer decreases.
25                    Preferably, treatment using the CAR T cells of the invention is
     accomplished by administering an effective amount of CAR T cells of the invention
     to the patient.
                      The CAR T cells of the present invention may be administered either
     alone, or as a pharmaceutical composition in combination with diluents and/or with
30   other components such as IL-2 or other cytokines or cell populations. Briefly,
     pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may comprise a target cell
     population as described herein, in combination with one or more pharmaceutically or
     physiologically acceptable carriers, diluents or excipients. Such compositions may
     comprise buffers such as neutral buffered saline, phosphate buffered saline and the
                                                     25

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     like; carbohydrates such as glucose, mannose, sucrose or dextrans, mannitol; proteins;
     polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine; antioxidants; chelating agents such as
     EDTA or glutathione; adjuvants (e.g., aluminum hydroxide); and preservatives.
     Compositions of the present invention are preferably formulated for intravenous
  5  administration.
                     Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be
     administered in a manner appropriate to the disease to be treated (or prevented). The
     quantity and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the
     condition of the patient, and the type and severity of the patient's disease, although
 10  appropriate dosages may be determined by clinical trials.
                     When the "effective amount" is indicated, the precise amount of the
     compositions of the present invention to be administered can be determined by a
     physician with consideration of individual differences in age, weight, antibody titer,
     and condition of the patient (subject). It can generally be stated that a pharmaceutical
 15  composition comprising the T cells described herein may be administered at a dosage
     of 104 to 109 cells/kg body weight, preferably 105 to 106 cells/kg body weight,
     including all integer values within those ranges. T cell compositions may also be
     administered multiple times at these dosages. The cells can be administered by using
     infusion techniques that are commonly known in immunotherapy (see, e.g.,
20   Rosenberg et al., New Eng. J. of Med. 319:1676, 1988). The optimal dosage and
     treatment regime for a particular patient can readily be determined by one skilled in
     the art of medicine by monitoring the patient for signs of disease and adjusting the
     treatment accordingly.
                     In certain embodiments, it may be desired to administer activated T
25   cells to a subject and then subsequently redraw blood (or have an apheresis
     performed), activate T cells therefrom according to the present invention, and reinfuse
     the patient with these activated and expanded T cells. This process can be carried out
     multiple times every few weeks. In certain embodiments, T cells can be activated
     from blood draws of from 10cc to 400cc. In certain embodiments, T cells are
30   activated from blood draws of 20cc, 30cc, 40cc, 50cc, 60cc, 70cc, 80cc, 90cc, or
      100cc. Not to be bound by theory, using this multiple blood draw/multiple reinfusion
     protocol may serve to select out certain populations of T cells.
                     The administration of the subject compositions may be carried out in
     any convenient manner, including by aerosol inhalation, injection, ingestion,
                                                   26

WO 2014/012001                                                            PCT/US2013/050293
     transfusion, implantation or transplantation. The compositions described herein may
     be administered to a patient subcutaneously, intradermally, intratumorally,
     intranodally, intramedullary, intramuscularly, by intravenous (i.v.) injection, or
     intraperitoneally. In one embodiment, the T cell compositions of the present invention
  5  are administered to a patient by intradermal or subcutaneous injection. In another
     embodiment, the T cell compositions of the present invention are preferably
     administered by i.v. injection. The compositions of T cells may be injected directly
     into a tumor, lymph node, or site of infection.
                     In certain embodiments of the present invention, cells activated and
 10  expanded using the methods described herein, or other methods known in the art
     where T cells are expanded to therapeutic levels, are administered to a patient in
     conjunction with (e.g., before, simultaneously or following) any number of relevant
     treatment modalities, including but not limited to treatment with agents such as
     antiviral therapy, cidofovir and interleukin-2, Cytarabine (also known as ARA-C) or
 15  natalizumab treatment for MS patients or efalizumab treatment for psoriasis patients
     or other treatments for PML patients. In further embodiments, the T cells of the
     invention may be used in combination with chemotherapy, radiation,
     immunosuppressive agents, such as cyclosporin, azathioprine, methotrexate,
     mycophenolate, and FK506, antibodies, or other immunoablative agents such as CAM
20   PATH, anti-CD3 antibodies or other antibody therapies, cytoxin, fludaribine,
     cyclosporin, FK506, rapamycin, mycophenolic acid, steroids, FR901228, cytokines,
     and irradiation. These drugs inhibit either the calcium dependent phosphatase
     calcineurin (cyclosporine and FK506) or inhibit the p70S6 kinase that is important for
     growth factor induced signaling (rapamycin) (Liu et al., Cell 66:807-815, 1991;
25   Henderson et al., Immun. 73:316-321, 1991; Bierer et al., Curr. Opin. Immun. 5:763
     773, 1993). In a further embodiment, the cell compositions of the present invention
     are administered to a patient in conjunction with (e.g., before, simultaneously or
     following) bone marrow transplantation, T cell ablative therapy using either
     chemotherapy agents such as, fludarabine, external-beam radiation therapy (XRT),
30   cyclophosphamide, or antibodies such as OKT3 or CAMPATH. In another
     embodiment, the cell compositions of the present invention are administered
     following B-cell ablative therapy such as agents that react with CD20, e.g., Rituxan.
     For example, in one embodiment, subjects may undergo standard treatment with high
     dose chemotherapy followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. In certain
                                                   27

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     embodiments, following the transplant, subjects receive an infusion of the expanded
     immune cells of the present invention. In an additional embodiment, expanded cells
     are administered before or following surgery.
                     The dosage of the above treatments to be administered to a patient will
  5  vary with the precise nature of the condition being treated and the recipient of the
     treatment. The scaling of dosages for human administration can be performed
     according to art-accepted practices. The dose for CAMPATH, for example, will
     generally be in the range I to about 100 mg for an adult patient, usually administered
     daily for a period between 1 and 30 days. The preferred daily dose is 1 to 10 mg per
 10  day although in some instances larger doses of up to 40 mg per day may be used
     (described in U.S. Patent No. 6,120,766).
                                 EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLES
                     The invention is further described in detail by reference to the
 15  following experimental examples. These examples are provided for purposes of
     illustration only, and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified. Thus,
     the invention should in no way be construed as being limited to the following
     examples, but rather, should be construed to encompass any and all variations which
     become evident as a result of the teaching provided herein.
20                   Without further description, it is believed that one of ordinary skill in
     the art can, using the preceding description and the following illustrative examples,
     make and utilize the compounds of the present invention and practice the claimed
     methods. The following working examples therefore, specifically point out the
     preferred embodiments of the present invention, and are not to be construed as
25   limiting in any way the remainder of the disclosure.
     Example 1: T cells expressing chimeric receptors deplete normal B cells and induce
     tolerance
                     The results presented herein demonstrate that that CART 19 cells
30   persist and provide a therapeutic benefit in the patient for at least 18 months. The
     engineered T cells expanded more than a thousand-fold in vivo, trafficked to bone
     marrow and continued to express functional CARs at high levels for at least 6 months.
     On average, each infused CAR+ T cell eradicated at least 1000 CLL cells. A CD19
     specific immune response was demonstrated in the blood and bone marrow,
                                                   28

WO 2014/012001                                                          PCT/US2013/050293
     accompanied by complete remission in two of three patients. A portion of the cells
     persist as memory CAR+ T cells, indicating the potential of this non-MHC restricted
     approach for the effective treatment of B cell malignancies.
  5                   The materials and methods employed in these experiments are now
     described.
     Materials and Methods
 10                   Protocol Design
                      The clinical trial (NCTO1029366) was conducted as described in
     PCT/US1 1/6419 1, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                      Vector Production
 15                   The CD19-BB-z transgene (GeMCRIS 0607-793) was designed and
     constructed as described (Milone et al., 2009, Mol Ther. 17:1453-1464). Lentiviral
     vector was produced according to current good manufacturing practices using a three
     plasmid production approach at Lentigen Corporation as described (Zufferey et al.,
      1997, Nature biotechnol 15:871-875).
20
                      Preparation of CART 19 cell product
                      Methods of T cell preparation using paramagnetic polystyrene beads
     coated with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 monoclonal antibodies have been described
     (Laport et al., 2003, Blood 102: 2004-2013). Lentiviral transduction was performed as
25   described (Levine et al., 2006, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 103:17372-17377).
                      The results of the experiments are now described.
     In vivo expansion and persistence of CART 19 and trafficking to bone marrow
                      CAR+ T cells expanded using CD3/CD28 beads and expressing a 4
30    1BB signaling domain is believed to be in improvement to CARs lacking 4-1BB. A
     Q-PCR assay was developed to enable quantitative tracking of CART 19 cells in blood
     and bone marrow. All patients had expansion and persistence of the CART 19-cells in
     blood for at least 6 months as depicted in Figures 1A and IC. Notably, patients UPN
                                                   29

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
     01 and UPN 03 had a 1,000 to 10,000 fold expansion of CAR+ T cells in blood during
     the first month post infusion. The peak expansion levels coincided with onset of the
     post-infusion clinical symptoms in patient UPN 01 (day 15) and patient UPN 03 (day
     23). Furthermore, following an initial decay that can be modeled with first order
  5  kinetics, the CART 19 T cell levels stabilized in all 3 patients from day 90 to 180 post
     infusion. Significantly, the CART 19 T cells also trafficked to bone marrow in all
     patients, albeit at 5-to 10-fold lower levels than observed in blood as depicted in
     Figures ID through IF. Patients UPN 01 and 03 had a log linear decay in the marrow,
     with a disappearance T1% of-35 days.
 10
     Prolonged expression and establishment of a population of memory CART 19 cells
     in blood
                      A central question in CAR-mediated cancer immunotherapy is
     whether optimized cell manufacturing and costimulation domains enhance the
 15  persistence of genetically modified T cells and permit the establishment of CAR+
     memory T cells in patients. Previous studies have not demonstrated robust
     expansion, prolonged persistence and/or expression of CARs on T cells after
     infusion (Kershaw et al., 2006, Clin Cancer Res 12:6106-6115; Lamers et al., 2006,
     J Clin Oncol 24:e20-e22; Till et al., 2008, Blood, 112, 2261-2271; Savoldo et al.,
20   2011, J Clin Invest doi:10.1172/JC1461 10). Flow-cytometric analysis of samples
     from both blood and marrow at 169 days post infusion revealed the presence of
     CAR19 expressing cells in UPN 03 (Figures 2A and 2B), and an absence of B cells
     as depicted in Figure 2A. Notably, by Q-PCR assay, all three patients have
     persisting CAR+ cells at 4 months and beyond as depicted in Figures 1 and Figures
25   4. The in vivo frequency of CAR+ cells by flow cytometry closely matched the
     values obtained from the PCR assay for the CART 19 transgene. Importantly, in
     patient UPN 03, only CD3+ cells expressed the CAR19, as CAR19+ cells were not
     detectable in CD16-or CD14-positive subsets as depicted in Figure 2A. CAR
     expression was also detected on the surface of 4.2% of T cells in the blood of
30   patient UPN 01 on day 71 post infusion as depicted in Figure 5.
                      Next, polychromatic flow cytometry was used to perform detailed
     studies to further characterize the expression, phenotype, and function of CART 19
     cells in UPN 03 using an anti-CAR idiotype antibody (MDA-647) and a gating
                                                    30

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
     strategy shown in Figure 6. Notable differences in the expression of memory and
     activation markers in both CD8+ and CD4+ cells based on CAR19 expression was
     observed. At day 56, CART 19 CD8+ cells displayed primarily an effector memory
     phenotype (CCR7-CD27-CD28-) consistent with prolonged and robust exposure to
  5  antigen as depicted in Figure 2C. In contrast, CAR-negative CD8+ cells consisted of
     mixtures of effector and central memory cells, with CCR7 expression in a subset of
     cells, and substantial numbers in the CD27+/CD28-and CD27+/CD28+ fractions.
     While both CART 19 and CAR-negative cell populations substantially expressed
     CD57, this molecule was uniformly co-expressed with PD-I in the CART 19 cells, a
 10  possible reflection of the extensive replicative history of these cells. In contrast to
     the CAR-negative cell population, the entirety of the CART 19 CD8+ population
     lacked expression of both CD25 and CD127. By day 169, while the phenotype of
     the CAR-negative cell population remained similar to the day 56 sample, the
     CART 19 population had evolved to contain a minority population with features of
 15  central memory cells, notably expression of CCR7, higher levels of CD27 and
     CD28, as well as CAR+ cells that were PD-I-negative, CD57-negative and CD127
     positive.
                      In the CD4+ compartment, at day 56 CART 19 cells were
     characterized by uniform lack of CCR7 and a predominance of CD27+/CD28+/PD
20    1+ cells distributed within both CD57+ and -compartments, and an essential
     absence of CD25 and CD 127 expression as depicted in Figure 2B. In contrast,
     CAR-negative cells at this time-point were heterogeneous in CCR7, CD27 and PD
      1 expression, expressed CD127 and also contained a substantial CD25+/CD127
     (potential regulatory T cell) population. By day 169, while CD28 expression
25   remained uniformly positive in all CAR+CD4+ cells, a fraction of the CART 19
     CD4+ cells had evolved toward a central memory phenotype with expression of
     CCR7, a higher percentage of CD27-cells, the appearance of a PD-I-negative
     subset, and acquisition of CD127 expression. CAR-negative cells remained
     reasonably consistent with their day 56 counterparts, with the exception of a
30   reduction in CD27 expression a decrease in the percentage of CD25+/CD127-cells.
     CART 19 cells can retain effector function after 6 months in blood
                      In addition to short persistence and inadequate in vivo proliferation, a
     limitation of previous trials with CAR+ T cells has been the rapid loss of functional
                                                    31

   activity of the infused T cells in vivo. The high level CART 19 cell persistence and
   surface expression of the CAR19 molecule in patient UPN 01 and 03 provided the
   opportunity to directly test anti-CD19-specific effector functions in cells recovered
   from cryopreserved peripheral blood samples. PBMC from patient UPN 03 were
 5 cultured with target cells that were either positive or negative for CD19 expression.
   Robust CD 19-specific effector function of CART19 T cells was demonstrated by
   specific degranulation against CD 19-positive but not CD 19-negative target cells, as
   assessed by surface CD107a expression. Notably, exposure of the CART19
   population to CDI 9-positive targets induced a rapid internalization of surface CAR
10  19 as depicted in Figure 6 for surface expression of CAR19 in the same effector
   cells in standard flow-cytometric staining. The presence of costimulatory molecules
   on target cells was not required for triggering CART 19 cell degranulation because
   the NALM-6 line does not express CD80 or CD86 (Brentjens et al., 2007, Clin
   Cancer Res 13:5426-5435). Effector function was evident at day 56 post infusion
15 and was retained at the day 169 time-point. Robust effector function of CAR+ and
   CAR-T cells could also be demonstrated by pharmacologic stimulation.
   Clinical activity of CART19 cells
                    There were no significant toxicities observed during the four days
20 following the infusion in any patient, other than transient febrile reactions.
   However, all patients subsequently developed significant clinical and laboratory
   toxicities between day 7 and 21 following the first infusion. These toxicities were
   short-term and reversible. Of the three patients treated to date, there are 2 CRs and 1
   PR at >6 months post CART 19 infusion according to standard criteria (Hallek et al.,
25 2008, Blood 111:5446). Details of past medical history and response to therapy for
   each patient are depicted in Figure 7.
                    In brief, patient UPN 01 developed a febrile syndrome, with rigors
   and transient hypotension beginning 10 days after infusion. The fevers persisted for
   approximately 2 weeks and resolved; the patient has had no further constitutional
30 symptoms. The patient achieved a rapid and complete response as depicted in
   Figure 3. Between 1 and 6 months after infusion, no circulating CLL cells have
   been detected in the blood by flow cytometry. Bone marrow at 1, 3, and 6 months
   after CART19 cell infusions shows sustained absence of the lymphocytic infiltrate
                                                 32

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
     by morphology and flow cytometric analysis as depicted in Figure 3B. CT scans at 1
     and 3 months after infusion show resolution of adenopathy as depicted in Figure 3C.
     Complete remission was sustained for 10+ months at the time of this report.
                     Patient UPN 02 was treated with 2 cycles of bendamustine with
  5  rituximab resulting in stable disease as depicted in Figure 3A. The patient received a
     third dose of bendamustine as lymphodepleting chemotherapy prior to CART 19 T
     cell infusion. The patient developed fevers to 40'C, rigors and dyspnea requiring a
     24 hour hospitalization on day 11 after the first infusion and on the day of the
     second CART 19 cell boost. Fevers and constitutional symptoms persisted and on
 10  day 15, the patient had transient cardiac dysfunction; all symptoms resolved after
     corticosteroid therapy was initiated on day 18. Following CART19 infusion, and
     coincident with the onset of high fevers, the patient had rapid clearance of the p53
     deficient CLL cells from peripheral blood as depicted in Figure 3A and a partial
     reduction of adenopathy, bone marrow showed persistent extensive infiltration of
 15  CLL one month after therapy despite dramatic peripheral blood cytoreduction. The
     patient remains asymptomatic.
                     Patient UPN 03 received pentostatin and cyclophosphamide as
     lymphodepleting chemotherapy prior to CART 19 cell infusion. Three days after
     chemotherapy but prior to cell infusion, bone marrow was hypercellular (60%) with
20   approximately 50% involvement by CLL. The patient received a low dose of
     CART19 cells (1.5x10 5 CAR+ T cells/kg divided over 3 days). Again, there were no
     acute infusional toxicities. However, 14 days after the first infusion, the patient
     began having rigors, fevers, nausea and diarrhea. By day 22 after infusion, tumor
     lysis syndrome was diagnosed requiring hospitalization. The patient had resolution
25   of constitutional symptoms, and within 1 month of CART 19 infusions, the patient
     had clearance of circulating CLL from the blood and bone marrow by morphology,
     flow cytometry, cytogenetic, and FISH analysis. CT scans showed resolution of
     abnormal adenopathy as depicted in Figures 3B and 3C. Complete remission was
     sustained beyond 8 months from the initial CART 19 cell infusion.
30
     Considerations of in vivo CART 19 effector to CLL target cell ratio
                     Pre-clinical studies showed that large tumors could be ablated, and
     that the infusion of 2.2x107CARs could eradicate tumors comprised of 1x 109 cells,
     for an in vivo E:T ratio of 1:42 in humanized mice (Carpenito et al., 2009, Proc Natl
                                                  33

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
     Acad Sci U S A 106:3360-3365), although these calculations did not take into
     account the expansion of T cells after injection. Estimation of CLL tumor burden
     over time permitted the calculation of tumor reduction and the estimated CART 19
     E:T ratios achieved in vivo in the three subjects based on number of CAR+ T cells
  5  infused. Tumor burdens were calculated by measuring CLL load in bone marrow,
     blood and secondary lymphoid tissues. The baseline tumor burdens as shown in
     Figure 7 indicate that each patient had on the order of 1012 CLL cells (i.e., 1
     kilogram tumor load) before CART 19 infusion. Patient UPN 03 had an estimated
     baseline tumor burden of 8.8x10 11 CLL cells in the bone marrow on day -1 (i.e. post
 10  chemotherapy and pre-CART19 infusion), and a measured tumor mass in secondary
     lymphoid tissues of 3.3 -5.5x10"CLL cells, depending on the method of volumetric
     CT scan analysis. Given that UPN 03 was infused with only 1.4x10 7 CART19 cells,
     using the estimate of initial total tumor burden (1.3x10 12 CLL cells), and that no
     CLL cells are detectable post treatment, a striking 1:93,000 E:T ratio was achieved.
 15  By similar calculations, an effective E:T ratio in vivo of 1:2200 and 1:1000 was
     calculated for UPN 01 and UPN 02. In the end, a contribution of serial killing by
     CART 19 T cells, combined with in vivo CART 19 expansion of >1,000-fold likely
     contributed to the powerful anti-leukemic effects mediated by CART 19 cells.
20   T cells expressing chimeric receptors establish memory and potent antitumor effects
     in patients with advanced leukemia
                     Limited in vivo expression and effector function of CARs has been a
     central limitation in the trials testing first generation CARs (Kershaw et al., 2006, Clin
     Cancer Res 12:6106-6115; Lamers et al., 2006, J Clin Oncol 24:e20-e22; Till et al.,
25   2008, Blood, 112, 2261-2271; Park et al., 2007, Mol Ther 15:825833; Pule et al.,
     2008, Nat Med 14:1264-1270). Based on pre-clinical modeling demonstrating
     enhanced persistence of CARs containing a 4-1BB signaling module (Milone et al.,
     2009, Mol Ther. 17:1453-1464; Carpenito et al., 2009, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
      106:3360-3365), experiments were designed to develop a second generation of CARs
30   engineered with lentiviral vector technology. This second generation of CARs was
     found to be safe in the setting of chronic HIV infection (Levine et al., 2006, Proc Natl
     Acad Sci U S A 103:17372-17377). The present results show that when this second
     generation CAR was expressed in T cells and cultured under conditions designed to
     promote engraftment of central memory T cells (Rapoport et al., 2005, Nat Med
                                                      34

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
      11:1230-1237; Bondanza et al., 2006, Blood 107:1828-1836), improved expansion of
     CAR T cells after infusion was observed compared to previous reports. CART 19 cells
     established CD 19-specific cellular memory, and killed tumor cells at E:T ratios in
     vivo not previously achieved.
  5                  CART 19 is the first CAR trial to incorporate a 4-1BB signaling
     domain and the first to use lentiviral vector technology. The present results
     demonstrate efficient tracking of CARs to sites of tumor, with the defacto
     establishment of "tumor infiltrating lymphocytes" that exhibited CD 19 specificity.
     The pronounced in vivo expansion permitted the first demonstration that CARs
 10  directly recovered from patients can retain effector function in vivo for months. A
     previous study had suggested that introduction of a first generation CAR into virus
     specific T cells is preferable to primary T cells (Pule et al., 2008, Nat Med 14:1264
      1270), however the results with second generation CARs introduced into optimally
     costimulated primary T cells calls this notion into question. Without wishing to be
 15  bound by any particular theory, a cautionary note is raised that the clinical effects
     were profound and unprecedented with the lysis of kilogram sized tumor burdens in
     all three patients accompanied with the delayed release of potentially dangerously
     high levels of cytokines in two of the patients. Classical cytokine storm effects were
     not observed. However, the present study was designed to mitigate this possibility by
20   deliberate infusion of CART 19 over a period of three days.
                     It was found that very low doses of CARs can elicit potent clinical
     responses. This was a pilot study that demonstrated safety of the CART 19 vector
     design. The observation that doses of CART 19 cells several orders of magnitude
     below those tested in previous trials can have clinical benefit may have important
25   implications for future implementation of CAR therapy on a wider scale, and for the
     design of trials testing CARs directed against targets other than CD 19.
                     The present studies further indicate that CART 19 is expressed in
     both central memory and effector T cells, and this likely contributes to their long
     term survival compared to previous reports. Without wishing to be bound by any
30   particular theory, CAR T cells may differentiate in vivo into a central memory-like
     state upon encounter and subsequent elimination of target cells (e.g. CLL tumor
     cells or normal B cells) expressing the surrogate antigen. Indeed signaling of 4-1BB
     has been reported to promote the development of memory in the context of TCR
     signaling (Sabbagh et al., 2007, Trends Immunol 28:333-339).
                                                   35

WO 2014/012001                                                              PCT/US2013/050293
                      The extended proliferation and survival of CART 19 has revealed
     aspects of the pharmacokinetics of CAR T cells that have not previously been
     reported. It was observed that the kinetics of cytokine release in serum and marrow
     correlated with peak CART 19 levels, so that it is possible that the decay is initiated
  5  when cellular targets expressing CD19 become limiting. The mechanism of the
     extended survival of CART 19 may relate to the aforementioned incorporation of the
     4-1BB domain or to signaling through the natural TCR and/or CAR. An intriguing
     possibility is that the extended survival is related to the population of CART 19 that
     has been identified in marrow specimens, raising the hypothesis that CD19 CARs
 10  could be maintained by encounter with B cell progenitors in the bone marrow.
     Related to this question is what drives the initial expansion of CART 19 cells in
     vivo? With rare exceptions (Savoldo et al., 2011, J Clin Invest
     doi: 10.1172/JC1461 10; Pule et al., 2008, Nat Med 14:1264-1270), the present study
     is the only trial to have omitted IL-2 infusions, so that the CART 19 cells likely
 15  either expanded in response to homeostatic cytokines or more likely, to CD19
     expressed on leukemic targets and/or normal B cells. In the latter case, this could be
     an attractive feature for CARs directed against targets on normal APCs such as
     CD 19 and CD20, as it is possible that self-renewal of CART 19 occurs on the
     normal cells, providing a mechanism for CAR memory by means of "self
20   vaccination/boosting" and therefore, long term tumor immunosurveillance. The
     mechanisms of CART19 homeostasis may require further study to elucidate cell
     intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms of persistence. Previous to these results, most
     investigators have viewed CAR therapy as a transient form of immunotherapy,
     however CARs with optimized signaling domains may have a role in both remission
25   induction and consolidation as well as for long term immunosurveillance.
                      Potent anti-leukemic effects have been observed in all three patients,
     including two patients with p53 deficient leukemia. Previous studies with CARs
     have had difficulty separating antitumor effects from lymphodepleting
     chemotherapy. However, the delayed cytokine release combined with the kinetics of
30   tumor lysis in fludarabine-refractory patients that was coincident, and possibly
     dependent on in vivo CAR expansion in the present study, indicate that CART 19
     mediates potent antitumor effects. The present results do not exclude a role for
     chemotherapy in potentiating the effects of CARs.
                      A thorough comparison of the vector, transgene and cell
                                                    36

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
     manufacturing procedures with results from ongoing studies at other centers may be
     required to gain a full understanding of the key features required to obtain sustained
     function of CAR T cells in vivo. Unlike antibody therapies, CAR-modified T cells
     have the potential to replicate in vivo, and long-term persistence could lead to
  5  sustained tumor control. The availability of an off the shelf therapy comprised of
     non-cross resistant killer T cells has the potential to improve the outcome of patients
     with B cell malignancies. A limitation of antibody therapy, as for example, with
     agents such as rituximab and bevicizumab, is that the therapy requires repeated
     antibody infusions, that is inconvenient and costly. The delivery of prolonged
 10  antibody therapy (in this case for at least 6 months in 3 of 3 patients treated to date)
     with anti-CD 19 scFv expressed on T cells following a single infusion of CART 19
     cells has a number of practical advantages, including conveniences and cost savings.
     Sustained detection of CART 19 eighteen months post-infusion
                     The results presented herein show long term expression of CART 19
 15  and deep B cell aplasia (Figures 8 and 9), and a reduction in plasma cells in all 3
     patients (Figure 10). A major surprise from the CART19 trial was that the CART19
     cells having a murine scFv that exhibited highly immunogenic phenotypes were in
     fact not rejected by the immune system of the host patient. This suggests that the
     CART 19 cells depleted normal B cells in the host patient and as a result induced
20   tolerance.
                     Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, CART 19 cells
     can be used for the following applications: 1) solid organ transplant patients who are
     "cross match" positive; elimination of pre-existing memory B cells might permit
     organ transplants that are not currently possible in these immunized patients; 2)
25   induction of tolerance to immunogenic proteins that are given to patients (hemophilia,
     as an example); 3) rituximab has therapeutic efficacy in arthritis and other
     autoimmune disorders; CART 19 may work as well or better.
                     In some instances, the CART 19 cells can be used to eliminate all B cell
     subsets (e.g,. naive, memory, plasma cell precursors, and "suppressive B regs"). Bregs
30   may contribute to the immunosuppression of some cancers and therefore CART19
     might improve immune responses by removing the Bregs.
                                                    37

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
                     The disclosures of each and every patent, patent application, and
     publication cited herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
     While this invention has been disclosed with reference to specific embodiments, it is
     apparent that other embodiments and variations of this invention may be devised by
 5   others skilled in the art without departing from the true spirit and scope of the
     invention. The appended claims are intended to be construed to include all such
     embodiments and equivalent variations.
                                                   38

WO 2014/012001                                                             PCT/US2013/050293
                                             CLAIMS
     What is claimed is:
                      1.     A method of depleting B cells in a subject, the method
     comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a cell genetically
     modified to express a CAR wherein the CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a
     costimulatory signaling region, and a CD3 zeta signaling domain, wherein the antigen
     binding domain targets a B cell surface marker, thereby depleting B cells in the
     subject.
                     2.      A method of promoting tolerance in a subject, the method
     comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a cell genetically
     modified to express a CAR wherein the CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a
     costimulatory signaling region, and a CD3 zeta signaling domain, wherein the antigen
     binding domain targets a B cell surface marker, thereby promoting tolerance in the
     subject.
                     3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the tolerance is transplant
     tolerance to a transplanted tissue.
                     4.      The method of claim 2, wherein the genetically modified cell
     depletes B cells.
                     5.      The method of claim 2, wherein the genetically modified cell is
     administered at the same time as the transplanted tissue.
                     6.      The method of claim 2, wherein the genetically modified cell is
     administered before the administration of the transplanted tissue.
                     7.      The method of claim 2, wherein the genetically modified cell is
     administered after the administration of the transplanted tissue.
                      8.     A method for treating graft versus host disease (GVHD), the
     method comprising administering a cell genetically modified to express a CAR to a
     1074180.doc                                  39

WO 2014/012001                                                          PCT/US2013/050293
     subject in need thereof, wherein the CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a
     costimulatory signaling region, and a CD3 zeta signaling domain, wherein the antigen
     binding domain targets a B cell surface marker, thereby treating GVHD in the subject.
                     9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the genetically modified cell
     depletes B cells.
                     10.    The method of claim 8, wherein the genetically modified cell is
     administered at the same time as a transplanted tissue.
                     11.    The method of claim 8, wherein the genetically modified cell is
     administered before the administration of the transplanted tissue.
                     12.    The method of claim 8, wherein the genetically modified cell is
     administered after the administration of the transplanted tissue.
                                                  40

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
