           REFERRAL PROGRAM FOR BUSINESSES
                                  ABSTRACT
   In particular embodiments, a user enters a code received at a point of sale
   identifying a node on a social network representing the point of sale. Upon
 5 entering the code into a mobile application, the application requests the user to
   identify other users that referred the user to the point of sale. Upon selecting
   one or more referrers, the social networking system applies one or more
   policies to the selected referrers.     In particular embodiments, the social
   networking system integrates with online merchants, and prompts a user to
10 select users or nodes that referred the user to the site or the specific product.
   In particular embodiments, the social networking system tracks the value of
   every single transaction, and may generate a list of the top ten value generators
   for a given node.

                                     1/4
101                        120                  121  122
         USERI
      PROFILE DB        SYSTEM           NETWORK
                                          CLOUD
                          R    ECEVEEND
                    202
                                   THIRD-PARTY
       PRIVACY                       WEBSITES             122
103-/ POLICY DBI
                                  3         123
               105
      FIG.                                        N
                   201          BEGIN VALIDATED
                               CHECK-IN PROCESS
                   202      RECEIVE MERCHANT CODE
                               203
                                    VERIFIED?     No
                                          YES
                          MERCHANT PROMOTION PAGE    INALIDCD 0
                   206  DISPLAY LIST OF REFERRERNDE
                   207_        RECEIVE SELECTION
                           UPDATE REFERRER ACCOUNT
                   208         OR SEND MESSAGE
                                   FIG. 2

           REFERRAL PROGRAM FOR BUSINESSES
                          RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application is related to US Patent Application Serial No. 13/247,780
   filed    on     28     September    2011,     International    Application    No.
 5 PCT/US2012/051524 entitled "Referral program for businesses" and filed on
   20 August 2012 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian Patent
   Application No. 2012316659 entitled "Referral program for businesses" and
   filed on 20 August 2012 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire content of
   each of which is incorporated as if fully set forth herein.
10                            TECHNICAL FIELD
   This disclosure generally relates to providing a referral program for businesses
   that also maintain a presence on a social networking system, and from the
   referral program, identifying experts and influencers in the social network and
   utilizing the identified experts and influencers for advertising, social grouping,
15 and other suitable purposes.
                                BACKGROUND
   A social network, in general, is a social structure made up of entities, such as
   individuals or organizations, that are connected by one or more types of
   interdependency or relationships,       such as friendship,     kinship, common
20 interest, financial exchange, dislike, or relationships of beliefs, knowledge, or
   prestige. In more recent years, social networks have taken advantage of the
   Internet. There are social-networking systems existing on the Internet in the
   form of social-networking websites. Such social-networking websites enable
   their members, who are commonly referred to as website users, to perform
25 various social activities. For example, the social-networking website operated
   by Facebook, Inc. at www. f acebook. com enables its users to communicate
   with their friends via emails, instant messages, or blog postings, organize
   social events, share photos, receive news of their friends or interesting events,
   play games, etc.
30                                SUMMARY
   This disclosure generally relates to providing a referral program for businesses
   maintaining a presence on the social network for the purposes of promotion as
   well as identifying experts and influencers in a social network and utilizing the
                                        1

   identified experts and influencers for advertising, social grouping, and other
   suitable purposes.
   An aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
           by a computing device, receiving data indicating a completed
 5 transaction involving a user of a social-networking system and a business;
           by the computing device, sending instructions to display a prompt to
   enter an interaction identification code, wherein the interaction identification
   code is a unique code generated by the business, and wherein the interaction
   identification code identifies the completed transaction;
10         by the computing device, receiving the interaction identification code;
           by the computing device, verifying, using the data indicating the
   completed transaction, the interaction identification code;
           by the computing device, sending instructions to display (1) a list of
   entities associated with the business in the social-networking system and (2) a
15 prompt to select a referrer from the list of entities;
           by the computing device, receiving a selection identifying as the
   referrer an entity from the list of entities, the social-networking system being
   operable to apply one or more policies to an account associated with the
   referrer and the business in the social-networking system; and
20 by the computing device, associating the identified referrer entity with the data
   indicating the completed transaction.
   Another aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more non-transitory
   computer-readable storage media embodying software that is operable when
   executed by a computer to:
25         receive data indicating a completed transaction involving a user of a
   social-networking system and a business;
            send instructions to display a prompt to enter an interaction
   identification code, wherein the interaction identification code is a unique
   code generated by the business, and wherein the interaction identification code
30 identifies the completed transaction;
           receive the interaction identification code;
           verify, using the data indicating the completed transaction, the
   interaction identification code;
                                        2

            send instructions to display (1) a list of entities associated with the
   business in the social-networking system and (2) a prompt to select a referrer
   from the list of entities;
            receive a selection identifying as the referrer an entity from the list of
 5 entities, the social-networking system being operable to apply one or more
   policies to an account associated with the referrer and the business in the
   social-networking system; and
   associate the identified referrer entity with the data indicating the completed
   transaction.
10 Another aspect of the present disclosure provides a system comprising:
            one or more processors; and
            a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable
   by the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
            receive data indicating a completed transaction involving a user of a
15 social-networking system and a business;
            send   instructions to display a prompt to enter an interaction
   identification code, wherein the interaction identification code is a unique
   code generated by the business, and wherein the interaction identification code
   identifies the completed transaction;
20          receive the interaction identification code;
            verify, using the data indicating the completed          transaction, the
   interaction identification code;
            send instructions to display (1) a list of entities associated with the
   business in the social-networking system and (2) a prompt to select a referrer
25 from the list of entities;
            receive a selection identifying as the referrer an entity from the list of
   entities, the social-networking system being operable to apply one or more
   policies to an account associated with the referrer and the business in the
   social-networking system; and
30          associate the identified referrer entity with the data indicating the
   completed transaction.
                                         3

   Particular embodiments of the present disclosure permit an application
   residing on a computing device to receive a code corresponding to a particular
   node on the social network that represents a particular business.           Upon
   receiving the code, the application may prompt the user of the application to
 5 select from a list of his or her first-degree connections, the user or users who
   referred the user to the particular business.
   In particular embodiments, where the merchant is an online merchant, a
   widget or API may access social graph information hosted by the social
   networking system, and prompt the user to identify who referred the user to
10 the online merchant or the particular product.
   In particular embodiments, the social networking system may then transmit
   promotional    messages     to  the   referrer or referrers,   or, in   particular
   embodiments, identify which of the referrers are "expert influencers."
   These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the disclosure are
15 described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction
   with the following figures.
                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   FIGURE 1 illustrates an example social networking architecture.
   FIGURE 2 illustrates an example method for performing a validated user
20 referral.
   FIGURE 3 illustrates an example user interface on a computing device for
   performing the method of FIGURE 2.
   FIGURE 4 illustrates an example third-party website implementing the
   method of FIGURE 2.
25 FIGURE 5 illustrates an example method of identifying and ranking top
   referrers.
   FIGURE 6 illustrates an example network environment.
   FIGURE 7 illustrates an example computer system.
   FIGURE 8 illustrates an example mobile device.
30
                                         4

              DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
   This disclosure is now described in detail with reference             to a few
   embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.          In the
   following description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to
 5 provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. However, This disclosure
   may be practiced without some or all of these specific details.         In other
   instances, well known process steps and/or structures have not been described
   in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure This disclosure.     In addition,
   while   the disclosure is described       in conjunction with the      particular
10 embodiments, it should be understood that this description is not intended to
   limit the disclosure to the described embodiments.         To the contrary, the
   description is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as
   may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the
   appended claims.
15 FIGURE 1 illustrates an example social networking system. In particular
   embodiments, the social networking system may store user profile data and
   social graph     information   in user profile   database    101.  In particular
   embodiments, the social networking system may store user event data in event
   database 102. For example, a user may register a new event by accessing a
20 client application to define an event name, a time and a location, and cause the
   newly created event to be stored in event database 102. In particular
   embodiments, the social networking system may store user privacy policy data
   in privacy policy database 103. In particular embodiments,            the social
   networking system may store geographic and location data in location
25 database 104. In particular embodiments, databases 101, 102, 103, and 104
   may be operably connected to the social networking system's front end. In
   particular embodiments, the front end 120 may interact with client device 122
   through network cloud 121. Client device 122 is generally a computer or
   computing device including functionality for communicating (e.g., remotely)
30 over a computer network.       Client device 122 may be a desktop computer,
   laptop computer, personal digital assistant (PDA), in- or out-of-car navigation
   system, smart phone or other cellular or mobile phone, or mobile gaming
   device, among other suitable computing devices.         Client device 122 may
   execute one or more client applications, such as a web browser (e.g.,
                                        5

   Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari, Google
   Chrome, and Opera, etc.) or special-purpose client application (e.g., Facebook
   for iPhone, etc.), to access and view content over a computer network. Front
   end 120 may include web or HTTP server functionality, as well as other
 5 functionality, to allow users to access the social networking system. Network
   cloud 121 generally represents a network or collection of networks (such as
   the Internet or a corporate intranet, or a combination of both) over which client
   devices 122 may access the social network system.
   In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store an information
10 base of places, where each place includes a name, a geographic location and
   meta information (such as the user that initially created the place, reviews,
   comments, check-in activity data, and the like).      Places may be created by
   administrators of the system and/or created by users of the system.           For
   example, a user may register a new place by accessing a client application to
15 define a place name and provide a geographic location and cause the newly
   created place to be registered in location database 104. As discussed above, a
   created place may correspond to a hub node, which an administrator can claim
   for purposes of augmenting the information about the place and for creating
   ads or other offers to be delivered to users. In particular embodiments, system
20 front end 120 may construct and serve a web page of a place, as requested by a
   user. In some embodiments, a web page of a place may include selectable
   components for a user to "like" the place or check in to the place. In particular
   embodiments, location database 104 may store geo-location data identifying a
   real-world geographic location of a user associated with a check-in. For
25 example, a geographic location of an Internet connected computer can be
   identified by the computer's IP address. For example, a geographic location of
   a cell phone equipped with cellular, Wi-Fi and/or GPS capabilities can be
   identified by cell tower triangulation, Wi-Fi          positioning, and/or GPS
   positioning. In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store a
30 geographic location and additional information of a plurality of places. For
   example, a place can be a local business, a point of interest (e.g., Union
   Square in San Francisco, CA), a college, a city, or a national park. For
   example, a geographic location of a place (e.g., a local coffee shop) can be an
   address, a set of geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude), or a reference
                                         6

   to another place (e.g., "the coffee shop next to the train station"). For example,
   a geographic location of a place with a large area (e.g., Yosemite National
   Park) can be a shape (e.g., a circle, or a polygon) approximating the boundary
   of the place and/or a centroid of the shape. For example, additional
 5 information of a place can be business hours, photos, or user reviews of the
   place. In particular embodiments, location database 104 may store a user's
   location data. For example, a user can create a place (e.g., a new restaurant or
   coffee shop) and the social networking system can store the created place in
   location database 104. For example, location database 104 may store a user's
10 check-in activities. For example, location database 104 may store a user's
   geographic location provided by the user's GPS-equipped mobile device. In
   particular embodiments, the social networking system may calculate one or
   more routes of a user based on the user's user profile information, check-in
   activities, and/or geographic location data reported by a client application (see
15 above) and store the one or more routes in location database 104. For example,
   the social networking system can calculate a "commute route" of a user
   between the user's home and work (as described in the user's user profile
   information stored in user profile database 101) by using a mapping service
   application such as Google Map, or by using geographic location data points
20 from the user's GPS-equipped mobile phone while the user is driving to work.
   Particular embodiments herein describe methods of automated location check
   in for a user based on the user's location data.
   A social network system may maintain social graph information, which can
   generally model the relationships among groups of individuals, and may
25 include relationships ranging from casual acquaintances to close familial
   bonds. A social network may be represented using a graph structure. Each
   node of the graph corresponds to a member of the social network. Edges
   connecting two nodes represent a relationship between two users. In addition,
   the degree of separation between any two nodes is defined as the minimum
30 number of hops required to traverse the graph from one node to the other. A
   degree of separation between two users can be considered a measure of
   relatedness between the two users represented by the nodes in the graph.
   In particular embodiments, nodes representing members, businesses, places, or
   products on a social network may be connected by various types of
                                        7

   interdependency or relationships.         Each member of a social network is
   represented as a node, and each connection between two members is
   represented as an edge linking the two corresponding nodes. Edges represent
   a particular interaction between two nodes, such as when a user expresses an
 5 interest in a news article shared by another user about "America's Cup." The
   social graph may record interactions between users of the social networking
   system as well as interactions between users and objects of the social
   networking system by storing information in the nodes and edges that
   represent these interactions. Custom graph object types and graph action types
10 may be defined by third-party developers as well as administrators of the
   social networking system to define attributes of the graph objects and graph
   actions. For example, a graph object for a movie may have several defined
   object properties, such as a title, actors, directors, producers, year, and the like.
   A graph action, such as "purchase," may be used by a third-party developer on
15 a website external to the social networking system to report custom actions
   performed by users of the social networking system. In this way, the social
   graph may be "open," enabling third-party developers to create and use the
   custom graph objects and actions on external websites.
   In particular embodiments, nodes may represent any entity on the social
20 network.    For example, a concept node may exist for a broad generalized
   concept, such as "basketball."     As another example, a store or chain of stores
   may be represented by a node on the social network, such as "Sports
   Authority."     Even more particularly, every single product sold may be
   represented as a node on the social network; a node may exist for "Nike Air
25 Zoom Kobe IV" shoes. In the aforementioned examples, particular edges may
   link the concept node "Basketball" to the merchant "Sports Authority" and the
   product "Nike Air Zoom Kobe IV" shoes.              In particular embodiments, the
   particular   location of a "Sports Authority"           storefront.   In particular
   embodiments, nodes representing products, businesses, or concepts may be
30 stored in object node db 105.            In particular embodiments, the social
   networking system may dynamically generate object nodes for any given
   product, business, or concept.
   Third-party developers may enable users of the social networking system to
   express interest in web pages hosted on websites external to the social
                                         8

   networking system. These web pages may be represented as page objects in
   the social networking system as a result of embedding a widget, a social
   plugin, programmable logic or code snippet into the web pages, such as an
   iFrame. Any concept that can be embodied in a web page may become a node
 5 in the social graph on the social networking system in this manner.        As a
   result, users may interact with many objects external to the social networking
   system that are relevant to a keyword or keyword phrase, such as "Justin
   Timberlake."     Each of the interactions with object may be recorded by the
   social networking system as edges. Enabling third-party developers to define
10 custom object types and custom action types is described further in
   "Structured Objects and Actions on a Social Networking System," U.S.
   Application No. 13/249,340 filed on 21 September, 2011, which is hereby
   incorporated by reference.
   In particular embodiments, the social networking system may integrate with
15 third party websites 123 via an application programming interface or script
   calls to the social networking system servers. In particular embodiments, third
   party websites 123 may query the social graph using a specialized set of graph
   protocol functions for any information relating to a particular user, such as
   which of the user's first-degree connections have also visited third party
20 website 123. In particular embodiments, third party websites 123 may submit
   information regarding a particular user's purchases or browsing history, and
   the social networking system may dynamically generate object nodes for the
   products purchased, or, in particular embodiments, the pages visited.        For
   example, if a user visits page containing a news article and clicks a "share" or
25 "like" widget that communicates with the social networking system. the social
   networking system may determine whether an object node already exists for
   the article, and, if not, dynamically create an object node for the article and
   connect the user node to the object node with a "like" or "share" edge. This
   disclosure contemplates responding to any type of query to the social graph,
30 and importing any type of object information into the social graph.
   FIGURE 2 illustrates an example method for a validated user referral process.
   The process may be executed by, in particular embodiments, a dedicated
   social networking application residing on a mobile computing device, and
   performed at the point of sale. In particular embodiments, the method may be
                                       9

   performed from a client device visiting the website of the social networking
   system.    In particular embodiments, the method may be performed by a
   dedicated device at the point of sale. In particular embodiments, it may be
   performed by a web server operated by the merchant or business. Although
 5 the following disclosure describes the embodiment wherein the process is
   executed on a mobile device, this disclosure contemplates any suitable means
   of performing the method of FIGURE 2.
   At Step 201, a user utilizing a mobile device begins a validated check-in
   process. In particular embodiments, the user may initiate the validated check
10 in process by initializing a dedicated social networking application residing on
   a mobile device. For example, when a user makes a purchase at a physical
   store front, the check-out clerk may ask the user whether is a member of the
   social networking system, and was referred by anyone, or ask how he or she
   heard of the store. In response, the user may, at the direction of the clerk or on
15 his own initiative, initialize the social networking application on his or her
   mobile device.
   In order to prevent fraud or abuse, in particular embodiments, the check in
   must be validated by a merchant code. For example, absent validation, a user
   may have his or her friends report that the user referred them to a particular
20 merchant, even if none of the friends made any purchases with the merchant,
   in order to reap the rewards of the referral program.         Thus, in particular
   embodiments, the social networking application first prompts the user to enter
   a particular code corresponding to the business or merchant's node on the
   social networking system before permitting the user to proceed. In particular
25 embodiments, the merchant code may be a single string of alphanumeric
   characters representing the merchant's node on the social networking system.
   In such embodiments, the merchant may tell the user the code, and the user
   may enter it himself on the social networking application on his or her mobile
   device. However, this method is still vulnerable to fraud, as once the user has
30 the code memorized or written down, he may repeat the process, or have
   others use the code, without having actually purchased anything from the
   merchant.     Thus, in particular embodiments, it may be desirable for the
   merchant to punch in the code directly.         In particular embodiments, the
   merchant generates a unique, one-time code for each completed transaction in
                                        10

   order to prevent re-use or fraud.
   In particular embodiments, the code may be displayed on the register, a
   placard, or preferably, on a receipt issued to the user as a quick response (QR)
   code, which may be scanned using the camera of a mobile device.                 In
 5 particular   embodiments,     the  code   may    be   delivered  via   near  field
   communications (NFC).        In particular embodiments, the social networking
   system may deliver the code, at the direction of the merchant, via a social
   networking message over the Internet.       In particular embodiments, the code
   may emailed or SMS messaged to the user. In particular embodiments, other
10 means may be used to deliver the code to the user, such as Bluetooth low
   energy (BLE) transmission, radio frequency identification (RFID), 802.11
   WiFi and 802.16 WiMax, and the like.          This disclosure contemplates any
   suitable method of generating merchant codes, and any suitable method of
   delivering the code to the referrer application.
15 In particular embodiments, the process of FIGURE 2 may be integrated with
   the check-in process as described above. In particular embodiments, the user
   may enter the code at a later time, such as when posting a status message. In
   particular embodiments, the social networking application may prompt the
   user for the code automatically when the user performs a check-in, updates his
20 or her status with text identifying the business, or when the social networking
   system determines that he or she is at a particular business.       For example,
   based on the mobile device's location information, the social networking
   system is aware when the user leaves a particular place of business. In such an
   example, the social networking application on the user's mobile device may
25 prompt the user as he or she leaves a particular location to enter the code and
   identify a referrer.
   At Step 203, the social networking application residing on the user's mobile
   device attempts to verify the code with the social networking system.           In
   particular embodiments, the mobile device transmits the merchant code to the
30 social networking system, and awaits a verification message from the social
   networking system. In particular embodiments, the social networking system
   verifies the code using other information received from the mobile device,
   such as the mobile device location. For example, if the user is attempting to
   verify a merchant code for a physical store far from his mobile device's self
                                        II

   reported location, the process may not pass the verification step.          This
   disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of verifying a particular
   merchant code.
   If the merchant code is invalid, at Step 204, the social networking application
 5 may display an "invalid code" message to the user. If the code is verified, the
   social networking system may transmit content, or a universal resource locator
   (URL) to the content, of a merchant promotion page at Step 205.              The
   merchant promotion page and subsequent steps are discussed further with
   respect to FIGURE 3.
10 At Step 206, the social networking application displays a selectable list of
   potentially referring nodes. In particular embodiments, the list is generated by
   querying, using the graph protocol, any potential connections from the user's
   first-degree connections to the merchant's node.          For example, social
   networking application may query the social graph in order to determine
15 whether any of the user's     connections have interacted with the merchant's
   hub node through on-network actions, such as "liking" the node, checking-into
   the node, commenting on the hub page for the node, becoming a fan of the
   node, or sharing a link to the node on the social networking system. In
   particular embodiments, the on-network actions may also include implicit
20 connections to the node through natural language processing. For example, if
   a user mentions or searches for a brand or product without a specific node
   identification, the social networking system may automatically generate and
   edge connection between the user node and the merchant's node. In particular
   embodiments, the social networking application populates the list only with
25 the user's first-degree connections.     In particular embodiments, the social
   networking application may populate the list with any degree of connections
   or any potential referrer.
   In particular embodiments, websites associated with the merchant's node may
   also transmit browsing and purchase information from online purchases to the
30 social networking system, and the social networking application may query
   the social graph in order to determine whether any of the user's first-degree
   connections have interacted with the merchant's hub node through off
   network actions, such as visiting the merchant's website, purchasing a product
   through the merchant's website, adding a product to his or her wishlist on the
                                       12

   merchant's website, or writing a review for a product on the merchant's
   website.     As an example, if a user visits a particular "Sports Authority"
   location and performs the verified check in, the social networking application
   may display, in order of greatest interaction, a list of the user's friends who
 5 have previously purchased products from www.sportsauthority.com, added
   products to their wishlist on the website, posted a product review on the
   website, or even frequently viewed www.sportsauthority.com.
   In particular embodiments, the social networking system may generate the list
   of potential referring nodes based upon the user's own browsing history. For
10 example, if the social networking system accesses a particular user's browsing
   history and determines that the user has visited a review on Yelp.com for the
   merchant, or a particular blog that has an edge connection to the merchant's
   node in the social graph, the social networking application may display both
   the specific Yelp review of the merchant and the blog in the list of potential
15 referrers.
   At Step 207, the social networking application receives a user selection
   designating which of the list of potential referrers actually referred the user to
   the merchant. In particular embodiments, the social networking application
   provides an interface that allows the user to type in the name of a particular
20 referrer if it is not displayed in the list displayed in Step 206.
   At Step 208, the social networking system updates the account of the referring
   user and applies one or more policies in response to the updated account. For
   example, in particular embodiments, the referrer account is merely a count of
   the number of referrals to the merchant the referrer has made, and the policy is
25 simply to send the referrer a message, such as, "you have currently referred
   three members to Sports Authority, if you refer two more members, you are
   eligible to receive a 30% discount on your next purchase."           In particular
   embodiments, the policy may be adjusted to the merchant's specifications.
   For example, the merchant may wish to give less of a discount, or require
30 more referrals, etc. This disclosure contemplates applying any suitable policy
   to the referrer account for each merchant.
   FIGURE 3 depicts an example user interface for a social networking
   application residing on a mobile device 300 executing the referral process of
   FIGURE 2. After verifying a merchant code and matching the merchant code
                                          13

   to a merchant node on the social network, the user interface may display (in
   Step 205) merchant page 301. In particular embodiments, merchant page 301
   may include various information about the merchant, such as its name, exact
   location, website, or phone number.        In particular embodiments, merchant
 5 page 301 may include a logo or map to the physical merchant location. This
   disclosure contemplates the inclusion, and display of, of any suitable merchant
   information in merchant page 301.
   In particular embodiments, the graphical user interface also includes a status
   message field 302, that, when populated, is posted on the user's profile page.
10 In particular embodiments, the user may tag or mention other users of the
    social networking    system in status message field 302.            In particular
   embodiments, the social networking system automatically generates a news
    story for display on the user's profile page, such as, for example, "Grace Lee
   just referred David White [the user] to IKEA."        In particular embodiments,
15 each of the names of the status message are clickable links that navigate a
   viewing user to the profile pages of Grace Lee, David White, and the hub page
   for IKEA, respectively.     This disclosure contemplates any suitable use of
    status message field 302.
   The graphical user interface also includes referrer prompt 303, which asks the
20 user to select the user or entity that referred him or her to the merchant from
   the list of suggested referrers 304-307.         The list of referrers 304-307,
   generated by the social networking system and returned to the social
   networking application in Step 206, as described above, may include friends
   of the user on the social network, or sites from the user's own browsing
25 history. For example, users "John Smith" and "Grace Lee" may have edge
   connections to the merchant's node in the social graph due to "liking" the
   merchant, posting a review of the merchant, commenting on the merchant's
   hub page, or interacting with a product node made or sold by the merchant. In
   particular embodiments, the social networking system suggests possible
30 referrers based on the user's own browsing history. For example, if the user's
   browsing history shows he or she has recently visited Yelp.com 306 or
   furniturecritic.com 307, both of which have edge connections between the
   merchant and their own respective nodes on the social networking system, the
    social networking application may display links 306 and 307 as potential
                                       14

   referrers.   In particular embodiments, upon selecting Yelp Review 306,
   another pop-up menu allows the user to select the specific review or reviewer
   that influenced his or her decision to visit the merchant.          In particular
   embodiments, the social networking system tracks and correlates each Yelp
 5 reviewer to his or her account on the social networking service, and creates an
   edge from the reviewer's user node to the merchant node in the social
   networking system. In particular embodiments, the social networking system
   may utilize implicit edge connections to determine whether a visited web site
   is a potential referrer.     In particular embodiments, the social networking
10 system may utilize natural language processing of URLs to determine whether
   a particular website is a potential referrer. This disclosure contemplates any
   suitable method of determining whether a particular user, node, or website is a
   potential referrer for a particular merchant.
   In particular embodiments, social networking application includes a field 308
15 that permits a user to type in the name of the person or entity that referred him
   or her to the merchant. This feature may be useful in the scenario where the
   user is not first-degree connections, or "friends" with the social networking
   user that referred him or her to the merchant. In particular embodiments, free
   form text field 308 permits the user to type in a web address of a specific
20 website from which he or she was referred. In such embodiments, the social
   networking system may search object database 105 to match the website to a
   specific user or hub node, and, if one does not exist, may dynamically create a
   node for the reviewer.
   Figure 4 depicts an example merchant website 400 after a user has completed
25 a transaction.    Website 400 contains three main pieces of content, order
   summary 401, site referral 402, and product referral 403. Only elements 402
   and 403 are relevant to this disclosure; the overall content and aesthetics of
   website 400 and 401 are left to the sole discretion of the merchant.          For
   didactic purposes, website 400 contains only order summary 401, but this
30 disclosure contemplates any manner of content in website 400.
   In this particular example, a user has completed a purchase for six "MacGuffin"
   products at the store, "TheWidgetWarehouse.com,"          as reflected in order
   summary 401.       In particular embodiments, website 400 contains code or
   scripts that communicate with the social networking system's servers to
                                        15

   exchange information with the social networking system.              In particular
   embodiments, the merchant website may transmit the user's IP address and
   purchase information to the social networking website. If the user has logged
   into the social networking website from the same IP address within a
 5 predetermined amount of time, the social networking system can correlate the
   IP address to a particular social networking ID, and create a log of purchased
   items. This disclosure does not limit the logging of off-network user actions
   to purchases; any time a user adds a product to a wishlist, reviews a product,
   or even browses a product, the action may be logged and stored at the social
10 networking system servers. Subsequently, users who have purchased a given
   product or visited a particular store may be suggested as referrers for their
   friends who make purchases at the same store, and so on.
   In particular embodiments, the scripts used to communicate with the social
   networking system servers are JavaScript executed by the visiting user's
15 browser.      In particular embodiments, they are social networking system
   widgets utilizing custom markup language defined by the social networking
   system. This disclosure contemplates any type of software code or scripting to
   facilitate communications between a third-party site 123 and the social
   networking system.
20 Website 400 includes site referral section 402, which prompts the user to
   select which of his or her friends or first degree connections referred him to
   the site, in this case "TheWidgetWarehouse.com.."      In particular embodiments,
   code or scripts in the markup language of website 400 query the social graph
   for potential referrers of the user. The social networking system generates a
25 list of potential referrers in the same manner as described above, and returns a
   list of users, or, in particular embodiments, profile photos 402a-402e.       The
   user may select one or more of the users who referred him or her to the
   website, and the social networking system subsequently updates the referrer's
   account for the particular site/merchant, and applies one or more referral
30 policies to the referrer account.
   Website 400 includes product referral section 403, which prompts the user to
   select which of his or her friends or first degree connections referred him to
   the site, in this case "the MacGuffin."     In particular embodiments, code or
   scripts in the markup language of website 400 query the social graph for
                                         16

   potential referrers of the user. The social networking system generates a list of
   potential referrers in the same manner as described above, and returns a list of
   users, or, in particular embodiments, profile photos 403a-403e. The user may
   select one or more of the users who referred him or her to the purchased
 5 product, and the social networking system subsequently updates the referrer's
   account for the particular product manufacturer, and applies one or more
   referral policies to the referrer account as specified by the manufacturer. It
   should be evident that multiple product referrer sections 403 may be included
   on website 400 where the user has purchased more than one type of product.
10 Similarly, it should be evident that the users displayed in section 402 may be
   the same or different set of users displayed in section 403.
   As a result of the data collection of methods and implementations of
   FIGURES 2-4, the social network is privy to a vast amount of information
   with regard to the influence of particular nodes on the social networking
15 system. Companies such as Klout and other competitors attempt to determine
   the social influence of particular users by analyzing the amount of shares or
   re-shares of a particular piece of content by that user, or the number of click
   throughs by other users to a piece of shared content. For further information
   on calculating social influence, please see commonly-owned United States
20 Patent Application Number 13/040,129,           entitled, "Identify Experts and
   Influencers    in a Social Network,"      filed on March 3, 2011 and fully
   incorporated by reference herein. However, because the aforementioned data
   collection mechanisms log and track the purchase price resulting from each
   referral, the present invention permits a social networking system to accurately
25 calculate the aggregate dollar value of a particular referrer.
   FIGURE 5 illustrates one example method of calculating a ranking for any
   particular referrer for any particular node. For example, if Nike wishes to
   calculate the top ten referrers for a specific product, such as "Nike Air Zoom
   Kobe IV" shoes, Nike may specify the node representing the specific product
30 and query the social graph to return all nodes that have referred the specific
   product, and calculate a total dollar value for each referrer.      In particular
   embodiments, an advertiser may specify larger concept nodes, such as "Nike"
   and "basketball", and the social networking system may return all referrers
   who have referred products having edge connections to both "Nike" and
                                       17

   "basketball."   This disclosure contemplates any suitable manner of querying
   the social graph to ascertain an initial list of referrers.
   At Step 501, for a particular referrer, the social networking system determines
   the number of direct referrals the referrer has made for the specified node or
 5 node, and multiplies each referral by the dollar amount of the transaction
   resulting from the referral. Because the social networking system tracks the
   dollar amount of each purchase made for each referral, calculating the net
   revenue gained from the particular referrer's direct referrals is simply a sum
   product operation.     In particular embodiments, the social networking system
10 also calculates an average revenue/referral value, and stores it with the user.
   This disclosure contemplates any suitable means of calculating a net-revenue
   amount resulting from a particular referrer's direct referrals.
   At Step 502, the social networking system calculates the net revenue resulting
   from the referrer's indirect referrals, that is, the sales resulting from referrals
15 from users referred by the referrer. As previously stated, because the social
   networking system logs and stores the details of every single transaction
   utilizing the referral program, calculating the net revenue resulting from a set
   of referrals is simply a sum-product.        These indirect referrals can also be
   considered nth-degree referrals, where n is greater than one. For example, if
20 user A refers three users who make purchases of $10 each, who in turn each
   refer three users making purchases of $10 each, user A's direct referral
   revenue is $30, while his indirect referral revenue is $90.           In particular
   embodiments, the social networking system only calculates the second and
   third degree referrals.    In particular embodiments, the issuer of the query,
25 generally the product manufacturer or merchant, may designate how many
   degrees of referrals he or she wishes to attribute to the initial referrer.      In
   particular embodiments, the value of the referrer may be calculated in terms of
   virtual currency or credits. For example, a merchant may arbitrarily assign an
   amount of virtual currency or credits to a particular product so as to reduce the
30 effects of market price fluctuation in determining the value of a referrer.
   At Step 503, the social networking system calculates the total dollar value of
   each referrer by summing the direct revenues and indirect revenues calculated
   in Steps 501 and 502, respectively. In particular embodiments, direct revenues
   and indirect revenues are multiplied by weighting coefficients. In particular
                                         18

   embodiments, the direct revenues are weighted heavier than indirect revenues.
   In particular embodiments, the coefficient weight decreases for each degree
   than N increases, thereby deemphasizing the value of possibly coincidental
   indirect referrals.
 5 At Step 504, the social networking system generates a list of the top referrers
   by revenue generated. In particular embodiments, this list may be generated
   periodically or on demand by a particular node administrator. In particular
   embodiments, any node administrator may issue a query for any other node;
   for example, Adidas may wish to determine who the key referrers for Nike
10 products are, and direct promotional items to those referrers.        In particular
   embodiments, Nike itself may wish to determine who are the key referrers for
   Nike products, and direct promotional items or special offers, such as inviting
   the referrer to a Nike facility, to the user.
   At Step 505, the social networking system may optionally automatically apply
15 one or more specified policies to the top X referrers.             For example, a
   manufacturer may wish to send coupons or free samples at set intervals to the
   top ten referrers.    As another example, a manufacturer may wish to send
   coupons or invitations to events to high-revenue referrers in the same industry
   on a monthly basis. This disclosure contemplates allowing individual node
20 administrators to set up any type of automatic policies based on any referrer
   criteria.
   The present invention is not limited to tracking the top dollar referrers for a
   particular product, brand, or business. In particular embodiments, the social
   networking system may calculate, based on data collected through the referral
25 program, what businesses, products, or brands are "trending" in the social
   networking     system.    For example, the social networking          system may
   determine that particular products have reached a tipping point for virality by
   tracking the number of purchases of the product. In particular embodiments,
   the social networking system may anticipate what products, businesses, or
30 brands will likely perform well by tracking other edge actions on object nodes.
   For example, if information about a particular product has "gone viral," the
   social networking system may predict that the sales and revenue for the
   product will subsequently increase.        Similarly, if the virality of a product
   decreases over time, the social networking system may anticipate that
                                         19

   revenues attributed to purchases of the product will decrease. For description
   into methods of tracking the virality of object nodes, please refer to
   commonly-owned United States Patent Application Number 13/229,513,
   entitled "Understanding Effects of a Communication Propagated Through a
 5 Social   Networking     System,"  filed  on 09 September 2011         and fully
   incorporated by reference herein.
   In particular embodiments, the social networking system may provide
   analytics to brand, business, or manufacturer based on both the virality of the
   node as well as aggregate revenue generated as a result of purchase edges on
10 the node. For example, if a node has "gone viral" (i.e., it is commonly shared,
   re-shared, and linked on the social networking system), but the product has not
   generated much in the way of sales, it may indicate that the product is
   improperly priced. For example, the social networking system may monitor
   both the virality and aggregate revenue for the node representing "Vibram
15 Fivefingers," and, if the product is highly viral but low in sales, may suggest
   to the node administrator (in this case, "Vibram"), that its pricing may be too
   high.    As another example, certain nodes, for example, the object node
   representing the song "Friday" by Rebecca Black, may have a high degree of
   virality while having almost zero generated revenue, indicating that the object
20 node is more of an internet meme or joke to be interacted with ironically rather
   than as a legitimate product. By combining analysis of virality and revenue
   generation, the social networking system may provide node administrators
   methods of identifying potential products as well as evaluating the pricing of
   available product offerings.
25 In particular embodiments, the virality of a particular object node may be
   assessed in determining whether a user is actually a "top referrer," or merely a
   bandwagon user. For example, if a user has a high number of referrals for
   products that have a high degree of virality, the social networking system may
   assume that the referred users would have purchased the product or visited the
30 businesses eventually, regardless of the referral.      Conversely, a user who
   influences other users to make purchase of products that are unpopular and
   untrendy may be more valuable to a product manufacturer. Thus, in particular
   embodiments, the social networking system may, either automatically or at the
   direction of a particular node administrator, rate referrers who generate a large
                                       20

       amount of revenue for sales of products having a low virality score higher than
       referrers who generate a large amount of revenue for sales of products having
       a high virality score.    This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of
       identifying top referrers.
 5     In particular embodiments, the social networking system may institute a
       revenue sharing model with the referrer or the brand/merchant. For example,
       the analytics described above may be offered in exchange for a percentage of
       revenues resulting from referral on the social networking system.          For an
       example, if user A lists user B as a referrer, but user B did not perform any on
10     network actions to disseminate his or her endorsement of the merchant/product,
       the merchant may not pay the social networking system a portion of the
       revenue of A's transaction. However, if B made an on-network endorsement
       of the merchant or product, then the social networking system may take a
       share of the revenue resulting from A's transaction.        Similarly, n particular
15     embodiments, the social networking system may implement a revenue sharing
       model with any number of referrers.             For example, either the social
       networking system or the merchant/brant may share a portion of revenues
       resulting from referrals with the referrers. This disclosure contemplates any
       suitable revenue sharing model.
20
   NETWORK ENVIRONMENT
       Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment.
       FIGURE 6 illustrates an example network environment 600.                  Network
       environment 600 includes a network 610 coupling one or more servers 620
25     and one or more clients 630 to each other.            In particular embodiments,
       network 610 is an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a
       local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network
       (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, or
       another network 610 or a combination of two or more such networks 610.
30     This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 610.
       One or more links 650 couple a server 620 or a client 630 to network 610. In
       particular embodiments, one or more links 650 each includes one or more
       wireline, wireless, or optical links 650.     In particular embodiments, one or
       more links 650 each includes an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a
                                           21

   WLAN, a WAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, or another link 650 or a
   combination of two or more such links 650. This disclosure contemplates any
   suitable links 650 coupling servers 620 and clients 630 to network 610.
   In particular embodiments, each server 620 may be a unitary server or may be
 5 a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters.
   Servers 620 may be of various types, such as, for example and without
   limitation, web server, news server, mail server, message server, advertising
   server, file server, application server, exchange server, database server, or
   proxy server.     In particular embodiments, each server 620 may include
10 hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two
   or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities
   implemented or supported by server 620.         For example, a web server is
   generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular
   elements of web pages. More specifically, a web server may host HTML files
15 or other file types, or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a
   request, and communicate them to clients 630 in response to HTTP or other
   requests from clients 630. A mail server is generally capable of providing
   electronic mail services to various clients 630. A database server is generally
   capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data
20 stores.  In particular embodiments, a social-networking system 622 may be
   hosted on a server 620 (e.g., as a social-networking website). Its users may
   access social-networking system 622 using their client devices (e.g. clients
   630).
   In particular embodiments,       one or more     data storages   640 may be
25 communicatively linked to one or more severs 620 via one or more links 650.
   In particular embodiments, data storages 640 may be used to store various
   types of information. In particular embodiments, the information stored in
   data storages 640 may be organized according to specific data structures. In
   particular embodiments, each data storage 640 may be a relational database.
30 Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers 620 or
   clients 630 to manage, e.g., retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the information
   stored in data storage 640.
   In particular embodiments, each client 630 may be an electronic device
   including    hardware,   software,   or embedded     logic  components   or   a
                                       22

       combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the
       appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client 630.       For
       example and without limitation, a client 630 may be a desktop computer
       system, a notebook computer system, a netbook computer system, a handheld
 5     electronic device, or a mobile telephone.    This disclosure contemplates any
       suitable clients 630. A client 630 may enable a network user at client 630 to
       access network 630. A client 630 may enable its user to communicate with
       other users at other clients 630.
       A client 630 may have a web browser 632, such as MICROSOFT INTERNET
10     EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX, and may have
       one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as TOOLBAR or
       YAHOO TOOLBAR.            A user at client 630 may enter a Uniform Resource
       Locator (URL) or other address directing the web browser 632 to a server 620,
       and the web browser 632 may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
15     (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP request to server 620. Server 620
       may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client 630 one or more
       Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request.
       Client 630 may render a web page based on the HTML files from server 620
       for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable web
20     page files.   As an example and not by way of limitation, web pages may
       render from HTML files, Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML)
       files, or Extensible Markup Language (XML) files, according to particular
       needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as, for example and without
       limitation,   those    written    in   JAVASCRIPT,     JAVA,    MICROSOFT
25     SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX
       (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein, reference to a
       web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files (which a
       browser may use to render the web page) and vice versa, where appropriate.
30 COMPUTER SYSTEM
       Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer
       systems.     FIGURE 7 illustrates an example computer system 700.          In
       particular embodiments, one or more computer systems 700 perform one or
       more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.         In
                                            23

   particular   embodiments,   one or more computer systems            700 provide
   functionality described or illustrated herein.      In particular embodiments,
   software running on one or more computer systems 700 performs one or more
   steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides
 5 functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include
   one or more portions of one or more computer systems 700.
   This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 700.
   This disclosure contemplates computer system 700 taking any suitable
   physical form. As example and not by way of limitation, computer system
10 700 may be an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single
   board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-module
   (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or
   notebook computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of
   computer systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a
15 server, or a combination of two or more of these.           Where appropriate,
   computer system 700 may include one or more computer systems 700; be
   unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple machines; or
   reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud components in one or
   more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 700 may
20 perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of
   one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not
   by way of limitation, one or more computer systems 700 may perform in real
   time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or
   illustrated herein.   One or more computer systems 700 may perform at
25 different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more
   methods described or illustrated herein, where appropriate.
   In particular embodiments, computer system 700 includes a processor 702,
   memory      704,  storage  706,    an  input/output   (1/0)   interface 708,  a
   communication interface 710, and a bus 712.           Although this disclosure
30 describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular
   number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
   contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any
   suitable components in any suitable arrangement.
   In particular embodiments, processor 702 includes hardware for executing
                                       24

   instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example
   and not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor 702 may
   retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal cache,
   memory 704, or storage 706; decode and execute them; and then write one or
 5 more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 704, or storage
   706.    In particular embodiments, processor 702 may include one or more
   internal   caches for data, instructions,      or addresses.     This disclosure
   contemplates processor 702 including any suitable number of any suitable
   internal caches, where appropriate.       As an example and not by way of
10 limitation, processor 702 may include one or more instruction caches, one or
   more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs).
   Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory
   704 or storage 706, and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those
   instructions by processor 702. Data in the data caches may be copies of data
15 in memory 704 or storage 706 for instructions executing at processor 702 to
   operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at processor 702 for
   access by subsequent instructions executing at processor 702 or for writing to
   memory 704 or storage 706; or other suitable data. The data caches may
   speed up read or write operations by processor 702. The TLBs may speed up
20 virtual-address translation for processor 702.       In particular embodiments,
   processor 702 may include one or more internal registers for data, instructions,
   or addresses.     This disclosure contemplates processor 702 including any
   suitable number of any suitable internal registers, where appropriate. Where
   appropriate, processor 702 may include one or more arithmetic logic units
25 (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 702.
   Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this
   disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.
   In particular embodiments, memory 704 includes main memory for storing
   instructions for processor 702 to execute or data for processor 702 to operate
30 on. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 700 may
   load instructions from storage 706 or another source (such as, for example,
   another computer system 700) to memory 704. Processor 702 may then load
   the instructions from memory 704 to an internal register or internal cache. To
   execute the instructions, processor 702 may retrieve the instructions from the
                                        25

   internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution
   of the instructions, processor 702 may write one or more results (which may
   be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal cache.
   Processor 702 may then write one or more of those results to memory 704. In
 5 particular embodiments, processor 702 executes only instructions in one or
   more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 704 (as opposed to
   storage 706 or elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or more internal
   registers or internal caches or in memory 704 (as opposed to storage 706 or
   elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an address
10 bus and a data bus) may couple processor 702 to memory 704. Bus 712 may
   include one or more memory buses, as described below.             In particular
   embodiments, one or more memory management units (MMUs) reside
   between processor 702 and memory 704 and facilitate accesses to memory
   704 requested by processor 702.        In particular embodiments, memory 704
15 includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory,
   where appropriate      Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM
   (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM
   may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any
   suitable RAM. Memory 704 may include one or more memories 704, where
20 appropriate.    Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular
   memory, this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
   In particular embodiments, storage 706 includes mass storage for data or
   instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 706 may
   include an HDD, a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a
25 magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or
   a combination of two or more of these. Storage 706 may include removable or
   non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate.        Storage 706 may be
   internal or external to computer system 700, where appropriate. In particular
   embodiments, storage 706 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular
30 embodiments, storage 706 includes read-only memory (ROM).               Where
   appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable ROM
   (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM (EEPROM),
   electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of
   two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 706 taking
                                       26

   any suitable physical form.      Storage 706 may include one or more storage
   control units facilitating communication between processor 702 and storage
   706, where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage 706 may include one or
   more storages 706.         Although this disclosure describes     and illustrates
 5 particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
   In particular embodiments, I/O interface 708 includes hardware, software, or
   both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer
   system 700 and one or more 1/0 devices. Computer system 700 may include
   one or more of these 1/0 devices, where appropriate. One or more of these 1/0
10 devices may enable communication between a person and computer system
   700. As an example and not by way of limitation, an I/O device may include a
   keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still
   camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable
   1/0 device or a combination of two or more of these. An 1/0 device may
15 include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O
   devices and any suitable 1/0 interfaces 708 for them. Where appropriate, 1/0
   interface 708 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling
   processor 702 to drive one or more of these 1/0 devices. 1/0 interface 708
   may include one or more 1/0 interfaces 708, where appropriate. Although this
20 disclosure describes and illustrates a particular 1/0 interface, this disclosure
   contemplates any suitable 1/0 interface.
   In particular embodiments, communication interface 710 includes hardware,
   software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such
   as, for example, packet-based communication) between computer system 700
25 and one or more other computer systems 700 or one or more networks. As an
   example and not by way of limitation, communication interface 710 may
   include a network interface controller        (NIC) or network adapter        for
   communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless
   NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network,
30 such as a WI-FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network
   and any suitable communication interface 710 for it. As an example and not
   by way of limitation, computer system 700 may communicate with an ad hoc
   network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a wide
   area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
                                        27

   portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or
   more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As
   an example, computer system 700 may communicate with a wireless PAN
   (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a
 5 WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a
   Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable
   wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system
   700 may include any suitable communication interface 710 for any of these
   networks, where appropriate. Communication interface 710 may include one
10 or more communication interfaces 710, where appropriate.           Although this
   disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this
   disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.
   In particular embodiments, bus 712 includes hardware, software, or both
   coupling components of computer system 700 to each other. As an example
15 and not by way of limitation, bus 712 may include an Accelerated Graphics
   Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture
   (EISA)    bus,   a   front-side   bus    (FSB),  a  HYPERTRANSPORT           (HT)
   interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND
   interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel
20 Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a
   PCI-Express (PCI-X) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA)
   bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another
   suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 712 may include
   one or more buses 712, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes
25 and illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or
   interconnect.
   Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium encompasses one or
   more non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage media possessing
   structure. As an example and not by way of limitation, a computer-readable
30 storage medium may include a semiconductor-based or other integrated circuit
   (IC) (such, as for example, a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an
   application-specific IC (ASIC)), a hard disk, an HDD, a hybrid hard drive
   (HHD), an optical disc, an optical disc drive (ODD), a magneto-optical disc, a
   magneto-optical drive, a floppy disk, a floppy disk drive (FDD), magnetic
                                         28

   tape, a holographic storage medium, a solid-state drive (SSD), a RAM-drive, a
   SECURE DIGITAL card, a SECURE DIGITAL drive, or another suitable
   computer-readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these,
   where appropriate. Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium
 5 excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C.
    101.    Herein, reference to a computer-readable storage medium excludes
   transitory forms of signal transmission (such as a propagating electrical or
   electromagnetic signal per se) to the extent that they are not eligible for patent
   protection under 35 U.S.C.  101. A computer-readable non-transitory storage
10 medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non
   volatile, where appropriate.
   This disclosure contemplates one or more computer-readable storage media
   implementing any suitable storage.      In particular embodiments, a computer
   readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor 702
15 (such as, for example, one or more internal registers or caches), one or more
   portions of memory 704, one or more portions of storage 706, or a
   combination of these, where appropriate.          In particular embodiments, a
   computer-readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular
   embodiments, a computer-readable storage medium implements volatile or
20 persistent memory.      In particular embodiments, one or more computer
   readable storage media embody software. Herein, reference to software may
   encompass one or more applications, bytecode, one or more computer
   programs, one or more executables, one or more instructions, logic, machine
   code, one or more scripts, or source code, and vice versa, where appropriate.
25 In particular embodiments,      software includes one or more application
   programming interfaces (APIs).       This disclosure contemplates any suitable
   software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language
   or combination of programming languages.             In particular embodiments,
   software is expressed      as source code or object code.            In particular
30 embodiments, software is expressed in a higher-level programming language,
   such as, for example, C, Perl, or a suitable extension thereof. In particular
   embodiments, software is expressed in a lower-level programming language,
   such as assembly language (or machine code).          In particular embodiments,
   software is expressed in JAVA.         In particular embodiments, software is
                                       29

        expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML), Extensible Markup
        Language (XML), or other suitable markup language.
   MOBILE DEVICE
 5      While mobile device 122 may be implemented in a variety of different
        hardware     and   computing    systems,   FIGURE      8   shows    a   schematic
        representation of the main components of an example computing platform
        802, according to various particular embodiments. Multipoint sensing devices
        generally include a controller 804 which may comprise a microcontroller or
10      one or more processors configured to execute instructions and to carry out
        operations associated with a computing platform.           Controller 804 may
        optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of
        instructions, data, or computer addresses.         By way of example, using
        instructions retrieved from memory, controller 804 may control the reception
15      and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing
        platform 802.
        Controller 804 together with a suitable operating system may operate to
        execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data.
        The operating system, other computer code (including control client 808
20      described below) and/or data may be physically stored within a memory block
        801 that is operatively coupled to controller 804.
        Memory block 801 encompasses one or more storage media and generally
        provides a place to store computer code (e.g., software and/or firmware) and
        data that are used by the computing platform 802. By way of example, any of
25      a number of suitable memory cards may be loaded into computing platform
        802 on a temporary or permanent basis.
        Controller 804 is also generally coupled to a variety of interfaces such as
        graphics control, video interface, input interface, output interface, and storage
        interface, and network interface, and these interfaces in turn are coupled to the
30      appropriate devices. In certain embodiments, Controller 804 may connected
        to an input structure 814 and display 811 may be provided together, such an in
        the case of a touchscreen where a touch sensitive mechanism is provided in
        conjunction with the display 811.
        Electric signals (e.g., analog) may be produced by microphone 810 and fed to
                                            30

          earpiece 812.     Controller 804 may receive instruction signals from input
           structure 814 and control the operation of display 811. Audio signals may be
          transmitted and received by means of an antenna 818 that may be connected
          through a radio interface 820 or audio input interface such as microphone 824
 5        to codec 822 configured to process signals under control of controller 804.
          Additionally, multipoint sensing devices may be powered power source 832.
          Mobile device 802 may also include a wireless communication subsystem
          816, which may include one or more RF modems for communicating via a
          number of different protocols, including but not limited to GSM, UMTS,
10        CDMA2000, EDGE, GPRS, global positioning system (GPS), wireless display
           (WiDi), bluetooth low-energy (BLE), near-field communications              (NFC),
          802.11 WiFi and 802.16 WiMax, and the like. This disclosure contemplates
          any suitable wireless communication subsystem 816 for enabling wireless
          communication with any suitable wireless protocol.
15        Mobile device may also include one or more user input devices 834 (other
          than input structure 814) that are operatively coupled to the controller 804.
          Generally, input devices 834 are configured to transfer data, commands and
          responses from the outside world into multipoint sensing devices.
          Display device 811 is generally configured to display a graphical user
20        interface (GUI) that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of
          the computing platform 802 and the operating system or application(s) running
          on the mobile device.
   Further Embodiments
25        One embodiment provides a method comprising, by one or more computing
           systems:
                   receiving, from a user, a data input identifying a particular business;
                   displaying a list of entities on a social network to the user;
                   prompting the user to select a referrer from the list of entities;
30                 receiving, from the user, one or more selections identifying one or
                   more entities from the list of entities as a referrer; and
                   applying one or more policies to the one or more referrers.
          In one arrangement, the entities comprise the user's first-degree connections
          on the social network.
                                                 31

   In one arrangement, the entities comprise the user's first-degree connections
   who have previously interacted with the business on the social network,
   In one arrangement, the users who have interacted with the business on the
   social network are displayed at the top of the list of entities.
 5 In one arrangement, the entities are limited to the users who have interacted
   with the business on the social network.
   In one arrangement,        wherein interacting    with the     business comprises
   checking-in to the business.
   In one arrangement, interacting with the business comprises liking the
10 business.
   In one arrangement, interacting with the business comprises adding a product
   offered by the businesses to a wish list or making a purchase at the business.
   In one arrangement, the entities comprise a node on the social network
   representing web sites that the user has previously visited.
15 In one arrangement, the one or more policies comprises adding a point to the
   one or more referrer's account with the particular business.
   In one arrangement, the one or more policies comprises sending a message to
   the one or more referrers, the message indicating how many more referrals the
   referrer must make in order to receive a promotion.
20 Another embodiment provides         a method comprising, by one or more
   computing systems:
   in response to a first request from a particular user:
           requesting, from a remote host, the user identifier for the particular
           user on a social network, and a list of the users' first-degree
25         connections;
           receiving the requested user information from the remote host;
           prompting the user to select a referrer from the list of the user's first
           degree connections;
           receiving, from the user, one or more selections identifying one or
30         more first-degree connections as a referrer; and
           applying one or more policies to the one or more referrers.
   In one arrangement, the request is a request for content from a universal
   resource locator, and the prompt comprises a prompt to select which
   connection referred the user to the universal resource locator.
                                       32

   In one arrangement, the request is a request to purchase a product, and the
   prompt comprises a prompt to select which connection referred the user to the
   product.
   A further embodiment provides a non-transitory, computer-readable media
 5 comprising instructions operable, when executed by one or more computing
   systems, to:
           receive, from a user, a data input identifying a particular business;
           display a list of entities on a social network to the user;
           prompt the user to select a referrer from the list of entities;
10         receive, from the user, one or more selections identifying one or more
           entities from the list of entities as a referrer; and
           apply one or more policies to the one or more referrers.
   In one arrangement, the entities comprise the user's first-degree connections
   on the social network.
15 In one arrangement, the entities comprise the user's first-degree connections
   who have previously interacted with the business on the social network.
   In one arrangement, the users who have interacted with the business on the
   social network are displayed at the top of the list of entities.
   A further embodiment provides a non-transitory, computer-readable media
20 comprising instructions operable, when executed by one or more computing
   systems, to:
           in response to a first request from a particular user:
           request, from a remote host, the user identifier for the particular user
           on a social network, and a list of the users' first-degree connections;
25         receive the requested user information from the remote host;
           prompt the user to select a referrer from the list of the user's first
           degree connections;
           receive, from the user, one or more selections identifying one or more
           first-degree connections as a referrer; and
30         apply one or more policies to the one or more referrers.
   In one arrangement, the request is a request to purchase a product, and the
   prompt comprises a prompt to select which connection referred the user to the
   product.
   Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated
                                         33

   otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.     Therefore, herein, "A or B"
   means "A, B, or both," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated
   otherwise by context.      Moreover, "and" is both joint and several, unless
   expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore,
 5 herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly
   indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.
   This disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations,
   and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having
   ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly, where appropriate, the
10 appended claims encompass all changes, substitutions, variations, alterations,
   and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having
   ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.       Moreover, reference in the
   appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or
   system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of, configured to, enabled to,
15 operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that
   apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is
   activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or
   component is so adapted, arranged, capable, configured, enabled, operable, or
   operative.
                                      34

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A method comprising:
           by a computing device, receiving data indicating a completed transaction
 5 involving a user of a social-networking system and a business;
           by the computing device, sending instructions to display a prompt to enter an
   interaction identification code, wherein the interaction identification code is a unique
   code generated by the business, and wherein the interaction identification code
   identifies the completed transaction;
10         by the computing device, receiving the interaction identification code;
           by the computing device, verifying, using the data indicating the completed
   transaction, the interaction identification code;
           by the computing device, sending instructions to display (1) a list of entities
   associated with the business in the social-networking system and (2) a prompt to
15 select a referrer from the list of entities;
           by the computing device, receiving a selection identifying as the referrer an
   entity from the list of entities, the social-networking system being operable to apply
   one or more policies to an account associated with the referrer and the business in the
   social-networking system; and
20         by the computing device, associating the identified referrer entity with the data
   indicating the completed transaction.
   2.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the entities comprise the user's first-degree
   connections in the social networking system.
   3.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the entities comprise the user's first-degree
25 connections in the social-networking system who have previously interacted with the
   business.
   4.      The method of Claim 3, wherein the user's first-degree connections who have
   previously interacted with the business are displayed at a top of the list of entities.
   5.      The method of any one of Claims I to 4, wherein the completed transaction
30 comprises checking-in by the user to the business.
                                                35

   6.       The method of any one of Claims I to 4, wherein the completed transaction
   comprises a purchase by the user at the business.
   7.       The method of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein the one or more policies
   comprises adding a point to the account.
 5 8.       The method of any one of Claim 1 to 7, wherein:
            the social-networking system comprises a social graph that comprises a
   plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes, each node
   corresponding to a user, business, product, or concept associated with the social
   networking system, and each edge representing an interaction between two nodes; and
10          the user, the business, and the entities are each represented by one or more
   nodes in the social graph.
   9.       The method of Claim 8, wherein the interaction identification code is based on
   a merchant code that identifies, in the social graph, a node representing the business.
    10.     One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media embodying
15 software that is operable when executed by a computer to:
            receive data indicating a completed transaction involving a user of a social
   networking system and a business;
             send instructions to display a prompt to enter an interaction identification
   code, wherein the interaction identification code is a unique code generated by the
20 business, and wherein the interaction identification code identifies the completed
   transaction;
            receive the interaction identification code;
            verify, using the data indicating the completed transaction, the interaction
   identification code;
25           send instructions to display (1) a list of entities associated with the business in
   the social-networking system and (2) a prompt to select a referrer from the list of
   entities;
            receive a selection identifying as the referrer an entity from the list of entities,
   the social-networking system being operable to apply one or more policies to an
30 account associated with the referrer and the business in the social-networking system;
   and
                                                 36

           associate the identified referrer entity with the data indicating the completed
   transaction.
   11.     The media of Claim 10, wherein the entities comprise the user's first-degree
   connections on the social-networking system.
 5 12.     The media of Claim 10, wherein the entities comprise the user's first-degree
   connections in the social-networking system who have previously interacted with the
   business.
   13.     The media of Claim 12, wherein the user's first-degree connections who have
   previously interacted with the business are displayed at a top of the list of entities.
10  14.    The media of any one of Claims 10 to 13, wherein the completed transaction
   comprises a check-in by the user to the business.
   15.     The media of any one of Claims 10 to 13, wherein the completed transaction
   comprises a purchase by the user at the business.
    16.    The media of any one of Claims 10 to 15, wherein the one or more policies
15 comprises adding a point to the account.
    17.    A system comprising:
           one or more processors; and
           a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the
   processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
20         receive data indicating a completed transaction involving a user of a social
   networking system and a business;
            send instructions to display a prompt to enter an interaction identification
   code, wherein the interaction identification code is a unique code generated by the
   business, and wherein the interaction identification code identifies the completed
25 transaction;
           receive the interaction identification code;
           verify, using the data indicating the completed transaction, the interaction
   identification code;
                                                37

             send instructions to display (1) a list of entities associated with the business in
   the social-networking system and (2) a prompt to select a referrer from the list of
   entities;
            receive a selection identifying as the referrer an entity from the list of entities,
 5 the social-networking system being operable to apply one or more policies to an
   account associated with the referrer and the business in the social-networking system;
   and
            associate the identified referrer entity with the data indicating the completed
   transaction.
10 18.      The system of Claim 17, wherein the entities comprise the user's first-degree
   connections in the social-networking system.
   19.      The system of Claim 17, wherein the entities comprise the user's first-degree
   connections in the social-networking system who have previously interacted with the
   business.
15 20.      The system of any one of Claims 17 to 19, wherein the completed transaction
   comprises a check-in by the user to the business.
                                       Facebook, Inc.
                              By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                    COTTERS
                                 Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys
                                                 38

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
