                                         ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a method for determining the amount of a physiologically
acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein, an antibody or other composition being
capable of specifically binding to a physiologically acceptable polymer molecule, and a kit
containing said antibody or composition.

        METHOD AND COMPOSITIONS FOR SPECIFICALLY DETECTING
            PHYSIOLOGICALLY ACCEPTABLE POLYMER MOLECULES
[0001]       This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2014265111, filed
on 21 November 2014, which is a divisional of No. 2008345183, filed on 23 December 2008,
and is related to No. PCT/US2008/088131, filed on 23 December 2008, and claims priority
from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/009,327, filed on 27 December 2007, each
of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       The present invention relates to a method for determining the amount of a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein, an antibody being capable
of specifically binding to a physiologically acceptable polymer molecule, and a kit containing
said antibody.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       The in vivo function of a protein is improved by binding it to a physiologically
acceptable polymer molecule. In particular, binding a physiologically active protein to a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule has been found to substantially prolong its in
vivo half-life. For example, U.S. Patent 4,970,300 describes that the conjugation of a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule to factor VIII results in a factor VIII protein
being activable by thrombin and having a substantially decreased antigenicity and
immunoreactivity and a substantially increased in vivo disappearance time in the bloodstream
of a mammal.
[0004]       U.S. Patent 4,970,300 describes that the conjugation of a polymer molecule
(dextran) to Factor VIII (FVIII) results in a FVIII protein activatable by thrombin, and having
a substantially decreased antigenicity and immunoreactivity and a substantially increased in
vivo retention time in the bloodstream of a mammal. International patent application WO
94/15625 describes that conjugating factor VIII to a physiologically acceptable polymer
molecule improves the in vivo function of factor VIII (i) by increasing its resistance to in vivo
hydrolysis and thus prolonging its activity after administration, (ii) by significantly
prolonging its circulating life in vivo over unmodified protein, and (iii) by increasing its
absorption time into the blood stream. U.S. Patent 6,037,452 describes FVIII and Factor IX
(FIX) conjugates, where the protein is covalently bound to a poly(alkylene oxide) through
carbonyl-groups in the

protein. Further, improving the in vivo function of factor IX by binding it to physiologically
acceptable polymer molecules, in particular poly(ethylene glycol) ("PEG"), has been described
in international patent application WO 94/29370. A PEGylated FVIII that retains specific
activity was disclosed in International Patent Publication WO/2007/126808.The conjugation of
physiologically acceptable polymer to an active agent such as a protein is performed by
preparing stable polymer-protein conjugates or polymer-protein conjugates in which the
physiologically acceptable polymer is attached to the protein via releasable covalent bonds
(pro-drug concept), i.e. a hydrolyzable or releaseable linker. For example, a releasable PEG
moiety has been developed using a 9-flourenemethoxycarbonyl (FMOC) conjugation system
containing two PEG chains (Nektar Inc., Huntsville AL). In addition an
N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS) group, which is useful for the chemical modification of
lysine residues of the protein, may be linked to the fluorene ring system via the
methoxycarbonyl group to generate the releasable PEG moiety. International Patent
Publication WO 2008/082669 (incorporated herein by reference) describes a series of
PEGylated recombinant FVIII variants based on the releasable PEG concept.
[00051     However, at present no reliable method for the quantitative determination of
physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to proteins or nanoparticles is available
apart from insensitive colorimetric methods (Nag et al. 1997, Anal Biochem 250:35-43), which
allow only an estimation of the content of physiologically acceptable polymer molecules.
Moreover, monoclonal antibodies for the determination of PEG concentrations have been
disclosed (U.S. patent 6,617,118), but so far no system is available for the reliable
determination of the amount of physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a
protein.
 100061    Therefore, a need exists for a new system to determine the amount of a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule, in particular PEG, bound to a protein,
particularly a physiologically active protein.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 100071    The present invention relates to a method for determining the amount of a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein. Additionally, an antibody
being capable of specifically binding to a physiologically acceptable polymer molecule
                                                 2

wherein for example said polymer molecule is present bound to a protein is provided according
to the present invention. Further, the present invention relates to the use of said antibody for
determining the amount of a physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein.
100081     In one aspect, the invention provides a method for determining the amount of a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein, comprising the steps of: (a)
 providing at least one protein bound to at least one physiologically acceptable polymer
molecule; (b) providing at least one antibody being capable of specifically binding to said
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule; (c) bringing the antibody of step (b) into contact
with the protein of step (a) under conditions suitable for binding said antibody to the at least
one polymer molecule bound to said protein; and (d) detecting a formation of a complex
between the antibody and the physiologically acceptable polymer molecule.
 100091    In one embodiment, in step (a) the protein bound to at least one physiologically
acceptable polymer molecule is immobilized on a substrate or carrier matrix.
 100101    In a further embodiment, the antibody is selected from the group consisting of a
polyclonal antibody and a monoclonal antibody.
 100111    In another embodiment, the protein is von Willebrand factor (VWF) or a derivative
thereof. In a further embodiment, the protein is Factor VIII or a derivative thereof.
 10012]    In some embodiments, the physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is selected
 from the group consisting of poly(alkylene glycol), poly(propylene glycol), copolymers of
 ethylene glycol and propylene glycol, poly(oxyethylated polyol), poly(olefinic alcohol),
poly(vinylpyrrolidone), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylamide), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylate),
poly(saccharides), poly(u-hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl alcohol), polyphosphasphazene,
 polyoxazoline, and poly(N-acryloylmorpholine). In a related embodiment, the physiologically
 acceptable polymer molecule is poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) or a derivative thereof.
 [00131     In another aspect, the invention contemplates, an antibody being capable of
 specifically binding to a physiologically acceptable polymer molecule. In one embodiment,
 the antibody is a polyclonal antibody.
 100141     In a related embodiment, physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is bound to a
 protein. In a further embodiment, the protein is von Willebrand factor (VWF) or a derivative
 thereof. In another embodiment, the physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is selected
 from the group consisting of poly(alkylene glycol), poly(propylene glycol), copolymers of
                                                 3

ethylene glycol and propylene glycol, poly(oxyethylated polyol), poly(olefinic alcohol),
poly(vinylpyrrolidone), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylamide), poly(hydrox yal kylmethacryl ate),
poly(saccharides), poly(o -hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl alcohol), polyphosphasphazene,
polyoxazoline, and poly(N-acryloylmorpholine). In a related embodiment, the physiologically
acceptable polymer molecule is poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) or a derivative thereof.
[00151    In a further aspect, the invention provides a kit for determining the amount of a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein, comprising an antibody as
described herein.
[0016]    In another aspect, the invention provides a method for determining the number of
physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to a protein or protein complex in a
polymer-protein conjugate, comprising the steps of detecting binding between (i) a
polymer:protein conjugate having one or more polymers bound to the protein and (ii) an
antibody that specifically binds said polymer, said antibody detectable when bound to said
polymer:protein conjugate, wherein the number of polymers in the polymer:protein conjugate
correlates with levels of antibody detected bound to the polymer:protein conjugate when
compared to a known control.
10017]     In one embodiment, the antibody comprises a detectable label. In a related
embodiment, the detectable label is selected from the group consisting of an enzyme, a
radioactive label, a fluorophore, an electron dense reagent, biotin, digoxigenin, haptens, and
proteins which are made detectable by addition of any of these labels.
100181     In a further embodiment, the polymer:protein conjugate is bound to a carrier matrix
prior to binding with the antibody. In certain embodiments, the carrier matrix is selected from
the group consisting of a microcarrier, a particle, a membrane, a strip, paper, a film, a bead or
a plate. In a related embodiment, the polymer:protein conjugate is isolated using sodium
dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and transferred to a
membrane prior to the detecting. In a further embodiment, the molecular weight of the
polymer-protein complex correlates with the protein subunit comprising the polymer molecule.
 100191    In yet another embodiment, the level of antibody detected is measured as absorbance
of the detectable label, In a related embodiment, the number of polymers in the
polymer:protein conjugate is calculated based on the molecular weight of the protein-polymer
conjugate compared to a known control. Exemplary methods to measure polymer molecules
                                                 4

for a known control include, but are not limited to size exclusion chromatography, high
performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and mass spectrometry.
 100201    In one embodiment of the invention, the protein or protein complex is a blood
clotting factor or a blood clotting factor complex. In a related embodiment, the blood clotting
factor or blood clotting factor complex is human. In a still further embodiment, the blood
clotting factor is selected from the group consisting of Factor II, Factor V, Factor VII, Factor
VIII, Factor IX , Factor X, Factor XI, Factor XII, Factor XIII, von Willebrand Factor, protein
C, antithrombin IlI, and activated forms thereof. In another embodiment, the blood clotting
factor complex is FactorVIIl:VWF.
[00211     In certain embodiments, the polymer is releasable. In a related embodiment, the
polymer is hydrolyzable. In one embodiment, the physiologically acceptable molecule is
attached to the protein or protein complex via a linker.
100221     In one embodiment, the polymer is selected from the group consisting of
poly(alkylene glycol), poly(propylene glycol), copolymers of ethylene glycol and propylene
glycol, poly(oxyethylated polyol), poly(olefinic alcohol), poly(vinylpyrrolidone),
poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylamide), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylate), poly(saccharides),
poly(hydroxy acid), such as poly(a-hydroxy acid) and poly(p-hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl
alcohol), polyphosphasphazene, polyoxazoline, and poly(N-acryloylmorpholine).
100231     In a related embodiment, the polymer is polyethylene glycol (PEG) or a derivative
thereof. In another embodiment, the PEG is from about 3 to about 200 kDa. In a further
embodiment, the PEG has a molecular weight in a range of about 5 kDa to about 60 kDa. In
another embodiment, the PEG has a molecular weight in a range of about 5 kDa to about 40
kDa. In still another embodiment, the PEG has a molecular weight in a range of about 5 kDa
to about 15 kDa. And in a still further embodiment, the PEG has a molecular weight in a range
of about 5 kDa to about 10 kDa. Additional PEG compositions contemplated for use herein
include, but are not limited to, PEG in the range of from about 5 to about 150 kDa, about 5 to
about 120 kDa, from about 10 to about 100 kDa, from about 20 to about 50 kDa, and from
about 5 to about 25 kDa,, as well as PEG having a molecular weight of about 5 kDa, about 10
kDa, about 15 kDa, about 20 kDa, about 25 kDa, is about 30 kDa, about 35 kDa, about 40 kDa,
about 45 kDa, about 50 kDa, about 55 kDa, about 60 kDa, about 65 kDa, about 70 kDa, about
75 kDa, about 80 kDa, about 85 kDa, about 90 kDa, about 95 kDa, about 100 kDa, about 110
                                                5

kDa, about 120 kDa, about 130 kDa, about 140 kDa, about 150 kDa, about 160 kDa, about 170
kDa, about 180 kDa, about 190 kDa, or about 200 kDa.
100241     In another aspect, the invention provides a method for determining the number of
physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to a protein or a protein complex or free
in solution comprising, contacting said polymer with an antibody that specifically binds said
polymer, said antibody detectable when bound to said polymer, wherein the number of
polymers bound by the antibody correlates with levels of antibody detected bound when
compared to a known control.
[0025]     In a related aspect, the invention contemplates a method for determining the number
of physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to a protein or a protein complex,
contacting said protein or protein complex with an antibody that specifically binds said protein
or protein complex, said antibody detectable when bound to said protein or protein complex,
wherein the number of polymers bound by the antibody correlates with levels of antibody
detected bound when compared to a known control.
 100261    In related embodiments, the method of the invention is carried out using an ELISA
technique. It is contemplated that the ELISA reagents are used as follows, wherein the first
antibody listed is the antibody bound to the substrate and the second antibody bound in the
antibody that is detectable. Exemplary assays useful to detect the number of polymers bound
to a protein or protein complex include an anti-polymer - anti-protein detection method, an
anti-protein - anti-polymer detection method, or an anti-polymer-anti-polymer detection
method, wherein the anti-polymer antibody is the same antibody for each binding step, or is a
different polymer-specific antibody for each step. In a related embodiment, the assay is carried
 out using only an anti-polymer specific antibody or an anti-protein-specific antibody.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
 100271     Figure 1 shows a direct Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) on the
 antigen HSAP-2-SS (PEGylated human serum albumin (hSA)). Rabbits were inoculated with
 preparations of the antigen HSAP-2-h-SS having about 380 Ig/ml protein and a PEG
 concentration of 250 pig/ml. Serum samples of all animals were taken before the start and after
 3 and 4 weeks and were subsequently tested for detectable antibody formation against the
 antigen HSAP-2-h-SS. The antigen HSAP-2-h-SS is coated on a surface in 0.1 M carbonate at
 pH 9.6 at 1 tg/ml. The samples are diluted in PBS-gelatin buffer and incubated with the wells
                                                  6

and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP antibody using Single Incubation Multilayer
Immune Technique (SIMIT). The optical density (OD) (vertical axis) is shown for the log
dilution (horizontal axis) of the respective samples. A, SPF (normal rabbit serum);     , Pool 0
(4 animals before); 0, Pool 3 weeks (4 animals); @, Pool 4 weeks (4 animals).
[00281     Figure 2 shows the inhibition of the direct ELISA on the antigen HSAP-2-SS by
PEG. Rabbits were immunized with the antigen HSAP-2-SS and serum samples are prepared
as described in Fig.!. The antigen HSAP-2-h-SS is coated on a surface in 0.1 M carbonate at
pH 9.6 at 1 pg/ml. The samples were diluted in PBS-gelatin buffer or PBS-gelatin-1% PEG
5000 buffer (+ I %PEG) and incubated with the wells and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit
IgG-HRP antibody (SIMIT). The optical density (OD) (vertical axis) is shown for the log
dilution (horizontal axis) of the respective samples.   l, 3 weeks + 1%PEG; 0, 3 weeks; 0, 4
weeks + 1% PEG; @, 4 weeks.
[00291     Figure 3 shows the direct ELISA on a PEG-modified plate. Rabbits were immunized
with the antigen HSAP-2-SS and serum samples are prepared as described in Fig.1. A substrate
(NUNC Maxisorp F96) is coated with mPEG-NPC 5000 at 1 mg/mI in 15 mM HEPES 2 hours
at room temperature and then blocked with PBS-gelatin (5 mg/ml). The samples were diluted
in PBS-gelatin buffer and incubated with the wells and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit
IgG-HRP antibody (SIMIT). The optical density (OD) (vertical axis) is shown for the log
dilution (horizontal axis) of the respective samples. The optical density (OD) (vertical axis) is
shown for the log dilution (horizontal axis) of the respective samples. 0, Pool 3 week; E, Pool
SPF (normal rabbit serum).
 [00301    Figure 4 shows the direct ELISA on VWF and PEG-VWF. Rabbits were immunized
with the antigen HSAP-2-SS and serum samples are prepared as described Fig.1. A substrate is
coated with PEGylated VWF (PEG-VWF) in 0.1 M carbonate at pH 9.6, another substrate is
coated with recombinant VWF (rVWF-12) in 0.1 M carbonate at pH 9.6. The samples were
diluted in PBS-gelatin buffer and incubated with the wells and subsequently with a goat
 anti-rabbit IgG-HRP antibody (SIMIT). The optical density (OD) (vertical axis) is shown for
the log dilution (horizontal axis) of the respective samples. 0, Pool 3 week (Coat: PEG-VWF);
17, Pool 3 week (Coat: rVWF-12).
 100311     Figure 5 shows the ELISA for the detection of VWF-PEGylation. A substrate
 (NUNC Maxisorp F96) was coated with anti-VWF antibody and incubated with decreasing
 amounts of PEGylated VWF followed by an incubation with an anti-PEG peroxidase
                                                  7

conjugate. The bound peroxidase was detected by a color reaction with SureBlue and the signal
intensity is correlated with the concentration of PEGylated VWF in the dilution. The optical
density (OD) (vertical axis) is shown for the log mU anti-VWF antibody/ml dilution
(horizontal axis) of the respective samples. 0, wP-005-1-SS a (A); A, wP-005-1-SS e (E); 0,
wP-005-1-SS f (F); 0, wP-005-1-SS g (G). Sample A represents the native rVWF before
modification whereas the preparations E, F and G were prepared using the PEGylation reagent
PEG-SS-5K in the molar concentrations of 1 mM, 2.5 mM and 7.5 mM.
100321     Figure 6 shows inhibition of the rVWF-PEG detection when free PEG 5000 is added
to the culture.
100331     Figure 7 shows dose-response curves of a PEG-PEG ELISA.
100341     Figure 8 illustrates the specificity of a PEG-PEG ELISA.
100351     Figure 9 shows the strong detection of PEG protein using the PEG-protein ELISA, as
shown with stable PEGylated rVWF.
100361     Figure 10 illustrates the strong detection of PEGylated protein using the PEG-protein
ELISA, as shown with releasable PEGylated rVWF.
 100371     Figure II illustrates the specificity of the PEG-protein ELISA for protein-bound
PEG as shown with PEGylated rVWF.
 100381     Figure 12 shows the specificity of the PEG-rFVIII ELISA.
 [00391     Figure 13 is a comparison of detection of different anti-FVIII peroxidase conjugates
in the PEG-FVIII ELISA assay.
 100401     Figure 14 shows the detection of PEG-rFVIII ELISA in the plasma of
FVIII-deficient mice and in rat plasma.
 [00411     Figure 15 is a comparison of the ELI SA assay in the detection of PEGylated rFVIII
preparations with different degree of PEGylation.
 100421     Figure 16. shows the influence of free PEG on the PEG-rFVIII ELISA.
 100431     Figure 17 depicts the ability of the PEG-rFVIII ELISA assay to measure PEG release
 from a releasable PEGylated rFVIII preparation and demonstrates the ELISA is capable to
 differentiate PEGylated FVIII molecules with different degrees of PEGylation.
 100441     Figure 18 shows that PEGylated protein was detectable using the sensitive ECL
 method in all applied concentrations.
                                                   8

100451     Figure 19 is a comparison of the levels of detection of PEGylated protein diluted in
buffer (Figure 2A) or in human plasma (Figure 2B).
100461     Figure 20 illustrates that the method detects the change in degree of PEGylation of
the PEGylated rFVIIa over time.
100471     Figure 21 shows that the method is able to differentiate between degrees of
PEGylation (Figure 4A, PD=3.7, Figure 4B, PD=6), wherein a higher PEGylation degree
resulted in a stronger signal.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [00481    The present invention is directed to methods for determining the amount of a
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein.
100491     Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs. The following references provide one of skill with a general definition of
many of the terms used in this invention: Singleton, et al., DICTIONARY OF
MICROBIOLOGY AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY (2d ed. 1994); THE CAMBRIDGE
DICTIONARY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (Walker ed., 1988); THE GLOSSARY
OF GENETICS, 5TH ED., R. Rieger, et al. (eds.), Springer Verlag (1991); and Hale and
Marham, THE HARPER COLLINS DICTIONARY OF BIOLOGY (1991).
 100501    Each publication, patent application, patent, and other reference cited herein is
incorporated by reference in its entirety to the extent that it is not inconsistent with the present
disclosure.
 [00511    It is noted here that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
 [00521    As used herein, the following terms have the meanings ascribed to them unless
specified otherwise.
 [00531    The term "sample" as used herein refers to any sample containing at least one protein
bound to at least one physiologically acceptable polymer molecule, such as any fluid or
 solution originating from a process for preparing pharmaceutical products.
                                                   9

100541     The term "protein" as used herein refers to any protein, protein complex or
polypeptide, including recombinant proteins, protein complexes and polypeptides composed of
amino acid residues linked via peptide bonds. Proteins may be obtained by isolation of a
protein from in vivo, by synthetic methods or obtained via recombinant DNA technology.
Synthetic polypeptides are synthesized, for example, using an automated polypeptide
synthesizer. A recombinant protein used according to the present invention may be produced
by any method known in the art as described herein below. In one embodiment, the protein is
a physiologically active protein, including a therapeutic protein or a biologically active
derivative thereof. The term "biologically active derivative" refers to a modification of a
protein having substantially the same functional and/or biological properties of the parent
protein. The term "protein" typically refers to large polypeptides. The term "peptide"
typically refers to short polypeptides. As used herein, polypeptide, protein and peptide are
used interchangeably. A "protein complex" refers to a molecule that is comprised of at least
one protein bound to at least one other protein. Examples of protein complexes include, but are
not limited to, a protein bound to a cofactor or chaperone protein, ligand-receptor complexes
 and multisubunit proteins such as integrins and other cell surface receptors comprises of
multiple protein subunits.
 [0055]     As used herein a "fragment" of a polypeptide refers to any portion of the polypeptide
 smaller than the full-length polypeptide or protein expression product. Fragments are typically
 deletion analogs of the full-length polypeptide wherein one or more amino acid residues have
 been removed from the amino terminus and/or the carboxy terminus of the full-length
 polypeptide. Accordingly, "fragments" are a subset of deletion analogs described below.
 [00561     As used herein an "analog" or "derivative" (which may be used interchangeably)
 refers to a polypeptide substantially similar in structure and having the same biological
 activity, albeit in certain instances to a differing degree, to a naturally-occurring molecule.
 Analogs differ in the composition of their amino acid sequences compared to the
 naturally-occurring polypeptide from which the analog is derived, based on one or more
 mutations involving (i) deletion of one or more amino acid residues at one or more termini of
 the polypeptide and/or one or more internal regions of the naturally-occurring polypeptide
 sequence, (ii) insertion or addition of one or more amino acids at one or more termini (typically
 an "addition" analog) of the polypeptide and/or one or more internal regions (typically an
 "insertion" analog) of the naturally-occurring polypeptide sequence or (iii) substitution of one
 or more amino acids for other amino acids in the naturally-occurring polypeptide sequence.
                                                    10

Substitutions are conservative or non-conservative based on the physico-chemical or
functional relatedness of the amino acid that is being replaced and the amino acid replacing it.
100571      In one aspect, an analog exhibits about 70% sequence similarity but less than 100%
sequence similarity with a given compound, e.g., a peptide. Such analogs or derivatives are, in
one aspect, comprised of non-naturally occurring amino acid residues, including by way of
example and not limitation, homoarginine, ornithine, penicillamine, and norvaline, as well as
naturally occurring amino acid residues. Such analogs or derivatives are, in another aspect,
composed of one or a plurality of D-amino acid residues, or contain non-peptide interlinkages
between two or more amino acid residues. The term "derived from" as used herein refers to a
polypeptide or peptide sequence that is a modification (including amino acid substitution or
deletion) of a wild-type or naturally-occurring polypeptide or peptide sequence and has one or
more amino acid substitutions, additions or deletions, such that the derivative sequence shares
about 70% but less than 100% sequence similarity to the wild-type or naturally-occurring
sequence. In one embodiment, the derivative may be a fragment of a polypeptide, wherein the
 fragment is substantially homologous (i.e., at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least
 85%, at least 90%, or at least 95% homologous) over a length of at least 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
35, 40, 45 or 50 amino acids of the wild-type polypeptide.
 100581     For sequence comparison, typically one sequence acts as a reference sequence, to
which test sequences are compared. When using a sequence comparison algorithm, test and
 reference sequences are input into a computer, subsequence coordinates are designated, if
 necessary, and sequence algorithm program parameters are designated. The sequence
 comparison algorithm then calculates the percent sequence identity for the test sequence(s)
 relative to the reference sequence, based on the designated program parameters.
 100591      Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison is conducted, in certain
 embodiments, by the local homology algorithm of Smith & Waterman, Adv. Apple. Math.
 2:482 (1981), by the homology alignment algorithm of Needleman & Wunsch, J. Mol. Biol.
 48:443 (1970), by the search for similarity method of Pearson & Lipman, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
 USA 85:2444 (1988), by computerized implementations of these algorithms (GAP, BESTFIT,
 FASTA, and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package, Genetics Computer
 Group, 575 Science Dr., Madison, WI), or by visual inspection. One example of a useful
 algorithm is PILEUP, which uses a simplification of the progressive alignment method of Feng
 & Doolittle, J. Mol. Evol. 35:351-360 (1987) and is similar to the method described by Higgins
                                                 11

& Sharp, CABIOS 5:151-153 (1989). Another algorithm useful for generating multiple
alignments of sequences is Clustal W (Thompson et al., Nucleic Acids Research 22:
4673-4680 (1994)). An example of algorithm that is suitable for determining percent sequence
identity and sequence similarity is the BLAST algorithm (Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol.
215:403-410 (1990); Henikoff & Henikoff, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89:10915 (1989);
Karlin & Altschul, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90:5873-5787 (1993)). Software for
performing BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National Center for
Biotechnology Information.
100601     Substitutions are conservative or non-conservative based on the physico-chemical or
functional relatedness of the amino acid that is being replaced and the amino acid replacing it.
 Substitutions of this type are well known in the art. Alternatively, the invention embraces
substitutions that are also non-conservative. Exemplary conservative substitutions are
described in Lehninger, [Biochemistry, 2nd Edition; Worth Publishers, Inc., New York (1975),
pp.71-77] and set out below.
                             CONSERVATIVE SUBSTITUTIONS
              SIDE CHAIN                            AMINO ACID
              CHARACTERISTIC
              Non-polar (hydrophobic):
                     A. Aliphatic                   ALIVP
                     B. Aromatic                    FW
                     C. Sulfur-containing           M
                     D. Borderline                  G
              Uncharged-polar:
                     A. Hydroxyl                    STY
                     B. Amides                      NQ
                     C. Sulfhydryl                  C
                     D. Borderline                  G
              Positively charged (basic)            KRH
              Negatively charged (acidic)           DE
 100611    Alternatively, exemplary conservative substitutions are set out immediately below.
                                                12

                          CONSERVATIVE SUBSTITUTIONS U
              ORIGINAL RESIDUE               EXEMPLARY
                                             SUBSTITUTION
              Ala (A)                        Val, Leu, Ile
              Arg (R)                        Lys, Gln, Asn
              Asn (N)                        Gln, His, Lys, Arg
              Asp (D)                        Glu
              Cys (C)                        Ser
              Gln (Q)                        Asn
              Glu (E)                         Asp
              His (H)                         Asn, Gln, Lys, Arg
               Ile (I)                        Leu, Val, Met, Ala, Phe,
               Leu (L)                        Ile, Val, Met, Ala, Phe
               Lys (K)                        Arg, Gin, Asn
               Met (M)                        Len, Phe, Ile
               Phe (F)                        Len, Val, Ile, Ala
               Pro (P)                        Gly
               Ser (S)                        Thr
               Thr (T)                        Ser
               Trp (W)                        Tyr
               Tyr (Y)                        Trp, Phe, Thr, Ser
               Val (V)                        Ile, Leu, Met, Phe, Ala
                                                                                              to
100621    As used herein a "variant" refers to a protein or analog thereof that is modified
comprise additional chemical moieties not normally a part of the molecule. Such moieties
improve, in various aspects, the molecule's solubility, absorption, biological half-life, etc. The
moieties alternatively decrease the toxicity of the molecule and eliminate or attenuate any
undesirable side effect of the molecule, etc. Moieties capable of mediating such effects are
disclosed in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences (1980). Procedure for coupling such
moieties to a molecule are well known in the art. In certain aspects, without limitation, variants
are polypeptides that are modified by glycosylation, PEGylation, or polysialylation.
                                                                                                 to
 100631    As used herein, "naturally-occurring," as applied to a protein or polypeptide, refers
a protein found in nature. For example, a polypeptide or polynucleotide sequence that is
present in an organism (including viruses) that are isolated from a source in nature and which
                                                 13

has not been intentionally modified by man in the laboratory is naturally-occurring. The terms
"naturally-occurring" and "wild-type" are used interchangeably throughout.
100641     As used herein, "plasma-derived," as applied to a protein or polypeptide, refers to a
naturally-occurring polypeptide or fragment thereof that is found in blood plasma or serum of
a subject.
100651     The term "physiologically acceptable polymer molecule" as used herein refers to
polymer molecules which are substantially soluble in aqueous solution or may be present in
form of a suspension and have substantially no negative impact to mammals upon
administration of a polymer-protein conjugate in a pharmaceutically effective amount and are
regarded as biocompatible. In one embodiment, physiologically acceptable molecules
comprise from 2 to about 1000, or from about 2 to about 300 repeating units. Exemplary
physiologically acceptable polymers include, but are not limited to, poly(alkylene glycols)
 such as polyethylene glycol (PEG), poly(propylene glycol) ("PPG"), copolymers of ethylene
 glycol and propylene glycol and the like, poly(oxyethylated polyol), poly(olefinic alcohol),
poly(vinylpyrrolidone), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylamide), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylate),
poly(saccharides), poly(a-hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl alcohol), polyphosphasphazene,
 polyoxazoline, poly(N-acryloylmorpholine), poly(alkylene oxide) polymers, poly(maleic
 acid), poly(DL-alanine), polysaccharides, such as carboxymethylcellulose, dextran, hyaluronic
 acid and chitin, poly(meth)acrylates, and combinations of any of the foregoing.
 100661     The physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is not limited to a particular
 structure and, in certain aspects, is linear (e.g. alkoxy PEG or bifunctional PEG), branched or
 multi-armed (e.g. forked PEG or PEG attached to a polyol core), dendritic, or with degradable
 linkages. Moreover, the internal structure of the polymer molecule are, in still other
 aspects,organized in any number of different patterns and are selected from the group
 consisting of, without limitation, homopolymer, alternating copolymer, random copolymer,
 block copolyner, alternating tripolymer, random tripolymer, and block tripolymer.
  100671    The term "linker" refers to a molecular fragment that links the physioloigically
 acceptable polymer to a biologically active molecule. The fragment typically has two
  functional groups that can be coupled to or activated to react with another linker or directly
 with the biologically active nucleophile. As an example, oi-aminoalkanoic acid such as lysine
  is commonly used. In the present invention, linkers includes stable, releasable and
  hydrolyzable linkers.
                                                    14

100681     The expression "protein bound to at least one physiologically acceptable polymer
molecule" as used herein includes a protein covalently bound or non-covalently bound by
interactions such as ionic, hydrophobic, affinity, bioaffinity interactions, to one or more
polymer molecules. In various embodiments, the polymer molecule is coupled to the protein
by use of bifunctional reagents and via a spacer arm. In addition, the polymer molecule is
coupled to the protein by affinity interaction. For example, the protein, in certain
embodiments, is biotinylated and avidin or streptavidin conjugated polymer molecules can be
bound to the protein. Further, polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies as well as fragments
thereof are bound to a polymer molecule, and then this complex can be bound to the protein.
Polymer molecules are also bound to the protein also by enzymatic methods such as, for
example, the transfer of saccharides with polyglycosyltransferase (US 6,379,933) or
glycopegylation (US 2004 0132640). Another approach is the binding of polymer molecules
to the protein on the basis of their biological function, like for example the binding of
 PEGylated collagens or collagen fragments to the Al and A3 domains of the VWF protein. For
 this purpose, in some embodiments, collagens from type I and III, e.g. from human placenta,
 showing a strong interaction with the VWFare used. In certain embodiments, the binding of
 the polymer molecule is irreversible or reversible under physiological conditions after an in
 vivo-application of the protein.
  [0069]    The term "PEGylated" as used herein refers to a protein, protein complex or
 polypeptide bound to one or more PEG moieties. The term "PEGylation" as used herein refers
 to the process of binding one or more PEGs to a protein. In one embodiment, the molecular
 weight of said PEG is in the range of from 3 to 200 kDa, from 5 to 120 kDa, from 10 to 100
  kDa, from 20 to 50 kDa, from 5 to 60 kDA, from 5 to 40 kDa, from 5 to 25 kDa, from 5 to 15
  kDa, or from 5 to 10 kDa.
  100701    The term "specifically binds" or is "specific for" a physiologically acceptable
  polymer refers to the ability of a binding agent to recognize and bind a physiologically
  acceptable polymer, but not other compounds (or other antigens). For example, an antibody
  "specific for" its cognate antigen indicates that the variable regions of the antibodies recognize
  and bind the compound of interest with a detectable preference (i.e., able to distinguish the
  compound of interest from other known compounds of the similar structure or composition, by
  virtue of measurable differences in binding affinity, despite the possible existence of localized
   sequence identity or homology if the antibody is specific for a polypeptide, or similarity
  between compounds). It will be understood that specific antibodies may also interact with
                                                   15

other proteins (for example, S. aureus protein A or other antibodies in ELISA techniques)
through interactions with sequences outside the variable region of the antibodies, and in
particular, in the constant region of the molecule. Screening assays to determine binding
specificity of an antibody for use in the methods of the invention are well known and routinely
practiced in the art. For a comprehensive discussion of such assays, see Harlow et al. (Eds),
Antibodies A Laboratory Manual; Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory; Cold Spring Harbor, NY
(1988), Chapter 6. Antibodies for use in the invention can be produced using any method
known in the art.
100711      A "detectable label" or a "detectable moiety" is a composition detectable by
spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, chemical, or other physical
means. For example, labels suitable for use in the present invention include, for example,
radioactive labels (e.g., 3P), fluorophores (e.g., fluorescein), electron dense reagents, enzymes
(e.g., as commonly used in an ELISA), biotin, digoxigenin, or haptens and proteins which are
made detectable, e.g., by incorporating a radiolabel into the hapten or peptide, or used to detect
antibodies specifically reactive with the hapten or peptide.
 100721     The term "substrate" or "carrier matrix" does not mean any specific limitations, and
relates, for example, to an insoluble polymer material, which can be an organic polymer, such
as polyamide or a vinyl polymer (e.g. poly(meth)acrylate, polystyrene and polyvinyl alcohol,
or derivatives thereof), a natural polymer such as cellulose, dextrane, agarose, chitin and
polyamino acids, or an inorganic polymer, such as glass or metallohydroxide. In certain
embodiments, the substrate is in the form of a microcarrier, particles, membranes, strips, paper,
 film, pearls, beads or plates, such as microtiter plates. In one aspect, the protein bound to at
least one physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is immobilized on the substrate directly
by covalent coupling or via a carrier such as a linker molecule or an antibody immobilized on
the substrate.
 100731     "Pharmaceutical composition" refers to a composition suitable for pharmaceutical
 use in subject animal, including humans and mammals. A pharmaceutical composition
 comprises a pharmacologically effective amount of a polymer-polypeptide conjugate and also
 comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. A pharmaceutical composition encompasses
 a composition comprising the active ingredient(s), and the inert ingredient(s) that make up the
 carrier, as well as any product which results, directly or indirectly, from combination,
 complexation or aggregation of any two or more of the ingredients, or from dissociation of one
                                                  16

or more of the ingredients, or from other types of reactions or interactions of one or more of the
ingredients. Accordingly, the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention
encompass any composition made by admixing a compound or conjugate of the present
invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
100741     "Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to any of the standard pharmaceutical
carriers, buffers, and excipients, such as a phosphate buffered saline solution, 5% aqueous
solution of dextrose, and emulsions, such as an oil/water or water/oil emulsion, and various
types of wetting agents and/or adjuvants. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers and formulations
are described in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 19th Ed. (Mack Publishing Co.,
Easton, 1995). Preferred pharmaceutical carriers depend upon the intended mode of
administration of the active agent. Typical modes of administration include enteral (e.g., oral)
or parenteral (e.g., subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous or intraperitoneal injection; or
topical, transdermal, or transmucosal administration). A "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" is
a salt that is formulated into a compound or conjugate for pharmaceutical use including, e.g.,
metal salts (sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, etc.) and salts of ammonia or organic
amines.
 [00751     "Pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to a material which is not biologically or
otherwise undesirable, i.e., the material may be administered to an individual without causing
any undesirable biological effects or interacting in a deleterious manner with any of the
components of the composition in which it is contained.
 100761     One aspect of the present invention relates to a method for determining the amount
of a physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to a protein, comprising the steps of:
 100771           (a)    providing at least one protein bound to at least one physiologically
 acceptable polymer molecule;
 100781           (b)    providing at least one antibody being capable of specifically binding to
 said physiologically acceptable polymer molecule;
 100791           (c)    bringing the antibody of step (b) into contact with the protein of step (a)
 under conditions suitable for binding said antibody to the at least one polymer molecule bound
 to said protein; and
 100801           (d)    detecting a formation of a complex between the antibody and the
 physiologically acceptable polymer molecule.
                                                  17

100811     The complex between the antibody and the polymer molecule is detected by methods
well known in the art. Examples for the detection of the above mentioned complex include, but
are not limited to, the use of a labelled antibody directed against the antibody being capable of
specifically binding to the physiologically acceptable polymer molecule or the antibody being
capable of specifically binding to a physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is covalently
linked to a detectable label which is any suitable detectable label known in the art. The
detection method for measuring the detectable label is, for example, and without limitation,
selected from the group consisting of an enzyme assay, a chromogenic assay, a lumino assay,
a fluorogenic assay, and a radioimmune assay. The reaction conditions to perform detection of
the detectable label depend upon the detection method selected. It is within the knowledge of
the person skilled in the art to choose the optimal parameters, such as buffer system,
temperature and pH for the respective detection system to be used.
[00821      The quantification of the detectable label resulting in the determination of the
amount of the physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to the protein is carried out
by standard methods. For example, in one aspect, the antibody being capable of specifically
binding to the physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is conjugated to an enzyme (e.g.,
a peroxidase), and for detection, an enzymatic substrate reaction is carried out. The amount of
physiologically acceptable polymer molecules is calculated from a calibration curve obtained
by a protein of interest bound to the physiologically acceptable polymer molecules defined
amounts. The amounts of physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to the protein
of interest can are obtained, for example, by evaluating data from SDS - gel electrophoresis and
determining the mass increase after binding of the physiologically acceptable polymer
molecules.
 [00831     In one aspect, the antibody according to the present invention is selected from the
 group consisting of a polyclonal antibody, a chimeric antibody, a monoclonal antibody derived
 by conventional hybridoma techniques, and an antibody or antibody fragment obtained by
 recombinant techniques, e.g. phage display or ribosome display. In one embodiment of the
 present invention, the antibody is a polyclonal antibody.
 100841     According to the present invention, the term "protein" does not underlie a specific
 restriction and may include any protein, protein complex or polypeptide, including
 recombinant proteins, protein complexes and polypeptides obtained via recombinant DNA
 technology. The recombinant protein used according to the present invention may be produced
                                                  18

by any method known in the art. This may include any method known in the art for (i) the
production of recombinant DNA by genetic engineering, e.g. via reverse transcription of RNA
and/or amplification of DNA, (ii) the introduction of recombinant DNA into prokaryotic or
eukaryotic cells by transfection, e.g. via electroporation or microinjection, (iii) the cultivation
of said transformed cells, e.g. in a continuous or batchwise manner, (iv) the expression of the
protein, e.g. constitutive or upon induction, and (v) the isolation of the protein, e.g. from the
culture medium or by harvesting the transformed cells, in order to (vi) obtain purified
recombinant protein, e.g. via anion exchange chromatography or affinity chromatography.
Proteins and Protein Complexes
100851      Proteins contemplated for use in the compositions include physiologically active
proteins useful for administration to a subject. In one embodiment, the physiologically active
protein is a therapeutic protein. The physiologically active protein, is in one aspect, a protein
or any fragment of such that still retains some, substantially all, or all of the therapeutic or
biological activity of the protein. In some embodiments, the protein is one that, if not
expressed or produced or if substantially reduced in expression or production, would give rise
to a disease. Preferably, the protein is derived or obtained from a mammal.
100861      In various embodiments of the invention, when the physiologically active protein
conjugated to a physiologically acceptable polymer is a protein or fragment thereof possessing
a biological activity of the protein, the physiologically active protein has an amino acid
sequence identical to the amino acid sequence to the corresponding portion of the unconjugated
human or mammalian protein. In other embodiments, the physiologically active protein of the
conjugate is a protein native to the species of the human or mammal. In other embodiments,
                                                                               8 0 %, 85%, 90%,
the protein or fragment thereof, is substantially homologous (i.e., at least
95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical in amino acid sequence over a length of at least 10, 25,
 50, 100, 150, or 200 amino acids, or the entire length of the active agent) to a native sequence
of the corresponding human or mammalian protein.
Methods of Making a Protein
 100871     Methods for making recombinant proteins are well-known in the art. Methods of
producing cells, including mammalian cells, which express DNA or RNA encoding a
 recombinant protein are described in U.S. patent numbers 6,048,729, 5,994,129, and
 6,063,630. The teachings of each of these applications are incorporated herein by reference in
 their entirety.
                                                  19

                                                                                            or
100881      In one embodiment, a nucleic acid construct used to express a polypeptide
                                                                                                in the
fragment, or analog thereof is one which is expressed extrachromosomally (episomally)
transfected mammalian cell or one which integrates, either randomly or at a pre-selected
                                                                                         A construct
targeted site through homologous recombination, into the recipient cell's genome.
which is expressed extrachromosomally comprises, in addition to polypeptide-encoding
sequences, sequences sufficient for expression of the protein in the cells and, optionally, for
replication of the construct. It typically includes a promoter, a polypeptide-encoding DNA
                                                                                          in the
 sequence and a polyadenylation site. The DNA encoding the protein is positioned
 construct in such a manner that its expression is under the control of the promoter. Optionally,
 the construct may contain additional components such as one or more of the following: a splice
                                                                                  appropriate
 site, an enhancer sequence, a selectable marker gene under the control of an
 promoter, and an amplifiable marker gene under the control of an appropriate promoter.
  100891     In those embodiments in which the DNA construct integrates into the cell's genome,
 it includes the polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid sequences. Optionally, it can include a
 promoter and an enhancer sequence, a polyadenylation site or sites, a splice site or sites,
 nucleic acid sequences which encode a selectable marker or markers, nucleic acid sequences
 which encode an amplifiable marker and/or DNA homologous to genomic DNA in the
  recipient cell to target integration of the DNA to a selected site in the genome (targeting DNA
  or DNA sequences).
  Host Cells
   100901     Host cells used to produce recombinant proteins are bacterial, yeast, insect,
  non-mammalian vertebrate, or mammalian cells; the mammalian cells include, but are not
   limited to, hamster, monkey, chimpanzee, dog, cat, bovine, porcine, mouse, rat, rabbit, sheep
   and human cells. The host cells include immortalized cells (a cell line) or non-immortalized
                                                                                         as, but not
   (primary or secondary) cells and include any of a wide variety of cell types, such
   limited to, fibroblasts, keratinocytes, epithelial cells (e.g., mammary epithelial cells, intestinal
   epithelial cells), ovary cells (e.g., Chinese hamster ovary or CHO cells), endothelial cells, glial
   cells, neural cells, formed elements of the blood (e.g., lymphocytes, bone marrow cells),
   muscle cells, hepatocytes and precursors of these somatic cell types.
    100911    Commonly used host cells include prokaryotic cells such as gram negative or gram
   positive bacteria, i.e., any strain of E. coli, Bacillus, Streptomyces, Saccharomyces,
   Salmonella, and the like; eukaryotic cells such as CHO (Chinese hamster ovary) cells; baby
                                                     20

hamster kidney (BHK) cells; human kidney 293 cells; COS-7 cells; insect cells such as D.
Mel-2, Sf4, Sf5, Sf9, and Sf21 and High 5; plant cells and various yeast cells such as
Saccharomyces and Pichia.
[00921      Host cells containing the polypeptide-encoding DNA or RNA are cultured under
conditions appropriate for growth of the cells and expression of the DNA or RNA. Those cells
which express the polypeptide are identified, using known methods, and the recombinant
protein isolated and purified, using known methods; either with or without amplification of
polypeptide production. Identification is carried out, for example and without limitation,
through screening genetically modified mammalian cells displaying a phenotype indicative of
the presence of DNA or RNA encoding the protein, such as PCR screening, screening by
Southern blot analysis, or screening for the expression of the protein. Selection of cells having
incorporated protein-encoding DNA may be accomplished by including a selectable marker in
the DNA construct and culturing transfected or infected cells containing a selectable marker
gene under conditions appropriate for survival of only those cells that express the selectable
marker gene. Further amplification of the introduced DNA construct is affected, in certain
aspects, by culturing genetically modified cells under conditions appropriate for amplification
(e.g., culturing genetically modified cells containing an amplifiable marker gene in the
presence of a concentration of a drug at which only cells containing multiple copies of the
 amplifiable marker gene can survive).
 100931     In one example of the present invention, the protein is a physiologically active
protein, protein complex or polypeptide, particularly a therapeutic protein, or a biologically
 active derivative thereof. As used herein, the term "biologically active derivative" includes
 any derivative of a protein, protein complex or polypeptide having substantially the same
 functional and/or biological properties of said protein, protein complex or polypeptide, such as
 binding properties, and/or the same structural basis, such as a peptidic backbone or a basic
 polymeric unit.
 [00941     Recombinant proteins which are physiologically active proteins or therapeutic
 proteins include, but are not limited to, cytokines, growth factors, therapeutic coagulation
 proteins or blood clotting factors, enzymes, chemokines, soluble cell-surface receptors, cell
 adhesion molecules, antibodies, hormones, cytoskeletal proteins, matrix proteins, chaperone
 proteins, structural proteins, metabolic proteins, and other therapeutic proteins known to those
 of skill in the art. Exemplary recombinant proteins which are used as therapeutics include, but
                                                 21

are not limited to, Factor VIII, Factor VIII:C, Antihemophilic Factor, Factor VII, Factor IX and
von Willebrand factor, erythropoietin, interferons, insulin, CTLA4-Ig,
alpha-glucocerebrosidase, alpha-glucosidase, follicle stimulating hormone, anti-CD20
antibody, anti-H ER2 antibody, anti-CD52 antibody, TNF receptor, and others known in the art.
 See, for example, Physicians Desk Reference, 624n Edition, 2008, Thomson Healthcare,
Montvale, NJ.
[00951     In one embodiment, the protein is a therapeutic coagulation factor or blood (clotting)
factor, including but not limited to, Factor II, Factor V, Factor VII, Factor VIII, Factor IX ,
Factor X, Factor XI, Factor XII, Factor XIII, von Willebrand Factor, protein C, antithrombin
III, and activated forms of any one of these proteins.. In a related embodiment, the protein
complex comprises one or more blood factors. Exemplary protein complexes of blood factos
include a complex between FVIII and VWF.
Blood Factors
100961     In one specific example of the present invention, the protein is a plasma-derived
(plasmatic) and/or recombinant von Willebrand factor (VWF) or a biologically active
derivative thereof. The term "plasma-derived VWF (pVWF)" includes mature VWF obtained
from a mammal. One biologically active derivative of said pVWF is pro-VWF which contains
the pro-peptide. In one example of the present invention the protein is selected from the group
consisting of immature VWF including the precursor VWF molecule (pre-pro-VWF)
synthesized by endothelial cells and megakaryocytes, the VWF propeptide (pro-VWF), and
mature plasma-derived VWF obtained upon cleavage of the signal peptide and pro-peptide,
respectively, of the precursor molecule. Further examples of biologically active derivatives of
plasmatic VWF include pro-drugs which are processed or converted into the biologically
active form, or are biologically active as such, truncated forms, forms having deletions, forms
having substitutions, forms having additions other than pro-forms, fragments of the mature
 form, chimeric forms, and forms having post-translational modifications as compared to the
 natural form. The term "recombinant VWF (rVWF)" includes VWF obtained via recombinant
 DNA technology having optionally a glycosylation pattern which is pharmacologically
 acceptable. Specific examples thereof include VWF without A2 domain thus resistant to
 proteolysis (Lankhof et al., Thromb Haemost.;77:1008-1013,1997) and the VWF fragment
 from Val 449 to Asn 730 including the glycoprotein lb-binding domain and binding sites for
 collagen and heparin (Pietu et al., Biochem Biophys Res Commun.;164:1339-1347, 1989).
                                                  22

100971     von Willebrand Factor exists in plasma in a series of multimer forms of a molecular
weight of from Ix 06 to 20x 106 Dalton. VWF (Genbank Accession No. NP_ 000543) is a
glycoprotein primarily formed in the endothelial cells of mammals and subsequently secreted
into circulation. In this connection, starting from a polypeptide chain having a molecular
weight of approximately 220 kD, a VWF dimer having a molecular weight of 550 kD is
produced in the cells by the formation of several sulfur bonds. Further polymers of the VWF
with increasing molecular weights, up to 20 million Dalton, are formed by the linking of VWF
dimers. It is presumed that particularly the high-molecular VWF multimers have an essential
importance in blood coagulation.
100981     VWF syndrome manifests clinically when there is either an underproduction or an
overproduction of VWF. Overproduction of VWF causes increased thrombosis (formation of
a clot or thrombus inside a blood vessel, obstructing the flow of blood) while reduced levels of,
or lack of, high-molecular fornis of VWF causes increased bleeding and an increased bleeding
time due to inhibition of platelet aggregation and wound closure.
 [00991    A VWF deficiency may also cause a phenotypic hemophilia A since VWF is an
essential component of functional Factor VIII. In these instances, the half-life of Factor VIII is
reduced to such an extent that its function in the blood coagulation cascade is impaired.
Patients suffering from von Willebrand disease (VWD) or VWF syndrome frequently exhibit
a Factor VIII deficiency. In these patients, the reduced Factor VIII activity is not the
consequence of a defect of the X chromosomal gene, but an indirect consequence of the
quantitative and qualitative change of VWF in plasma. The differentiation between
hemophilia A and vWD may normally be effected by measuring the VWF antigen or by
 determining the ristocetin-cofactor activity. Both the VWF antigen content and the ristocetin
cofactor activity are lowered in most vWD patients, whereas they are normal in hemophilia A
patients. VWF products for the treatment of VWF syndrome include, but are not limited to:
 HUMATE-P;and, IMMUNATE@, INNOBRAND, and SY@, which therapies comprising
 FVIII/VWF concentrate from plasma.
 1001001     In a related embodiment, the protein is Factor VIII. Factor VIII (FVIII) is a blood
 plasma glycoprotein of about 260 kDa molecular mass produced in the liver of mammals
 (Genbank Accesion No. NP_000123). It is a critical component of the cascade of coagulation
 reactions that lead to blood clotting. Within this cascade is a step in which Factor IXa, in
 conjunction with FVIII, converts Factor X (Genbank Accession No. NP_000495) to an
                                                 23

activated form, Factor Xa. FVIII acts as a cofactor at this step, being required with calcium
ions and phospholipid for the activity of Factor IXa. The two most common hemophilic
disorders are caused by a deficiency of functional FVIII (Hemophilia A, about 80% of all
cases) or functional Factor IXa (Hemophilia B or Christmas Factor disease). FVIII circulates,
in plasma at a very low concentration and is bound non-covalently to von Willebrand Factor
(VWF). During hemostasis, FVIII is separated from VWF and acts as a cofactor for activated
Factor IX (FIXa)-mediated Factor X (FX) activation by enhancing the rate of activation in the
presence of calcium and phospholipids or cellular membranes.
1001011     FVIII is synthesized as a single-chain precursor of approximately 270-330 kD with
the domain structure A1-A2-B-A3-C1-C2.         When purified from plasma, FVIII is composed of
a heavy chain (Al-A2-B) and a light chain (A3-Cl-C2). The molecular mass of the light chain
is 80 kD whereas, due to proteolysis within the B domain, the heavy chain is in the range of
90-220 kD.
[001021     FVIII is also synthesized as a recombinant protein for therapeutic use in bleeding
disorders. Various in vitro assays have been devised to determine the potential efficacy of
recombinant FVIII (rFVIII) as a therapeutic medicine. These assays mimic the in vivo effects
of endogenous FVIII. In vitro thrombin treatment of FVIII results in a rapid increase and
subsequent decrease in its procoagulant activity, as measured by in vitro assay. This activation
and inactivation coincides with specific limited proteolysis both in the heavy and the light
chains, which alter the availability of different binding epitopes in FVIII, e.g., allowing FVIII
to dissociate from VWF and bind to a phospholipid surface or altering the binding ability to
certain monoclonal antibodies.
 [001031    Until recently, the standard treatment of Hemophilia A involved frequent infusion
of preparations of FVIII concentrates derived from the plasmas of human donors. While this
replacement therapy is generally effective, such treatment puts patients at risk for
virus-transmissible diseases such as hepatitis and AIDS. Although this risk has been reduced
by further puri fication of FVIII from plasma by immunopurification using monoclonal
antibodies, and by inactivating viruses by treatment with either an organic solvent or heat, such
preparations have greatly increased the cost of treatment and are not without risk. For these
reasons, patients have been treated episodically, rather than prophylactically. A further
complication is that about 15% of patients develop inhibitory antibodies to plasma-derived
FVIII. Patients with severe haemophilia A with FVIII levels below 1%, are generally on
                                                 24

prophylactic therapy with the aim of keeping FVIII above 1% between doses. Taking into
account the average half-lives of the various FVIII products in the circulation, this can usually
be achieved by giving FVIII two to three times a week.
                                                                                          of cDNA
1001041     An important advance in the treatment of Hemophilia A was the isolation
clones encoding the complete 2,351 amino acid sequence of human FVIII (see, Wood et al,
Nature, 312: 330 (1984) and U.S. Pat. No. 4,757,006) and the provision of the human FVIII
                                                                       FVIII products for the
gene DNA sequence and recombinant methods for its production.
treatment of hemophilia include, but are not limited to: ADVATE (Antihemophilic Factor
                                                                               Antihemophilic
(Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method, rAHF-PFM), recombinant
Factor (BIOCLATE TM, GENARC@, HELIXATE FS@, KOATE@, KOGENATE FS,
 RECOMBINAT E@): MONOCLATE-P, purified preparation of Factor VIII:C,
 Antihemophilic Factor/von Willebrand Factor Complex (Human) HUMATE-P@ and
 ALPHANATE, Anti-hemophilic Factor/von Willebrand Factor Complex (Human); and
 HYATE C, purified pig Factor VIII. ADVATE@, is produced in CHO-cells and
 manufactured by Baxter Healthcare Corporation. No human or animal plasma proteins or
 albumin are added in the cell culture process, purification, or final formulation of ADVATE@.
                                                                                         proteins in
 1001051     Factor VII (proconvertin), a serine protease enzyme, is one of the central
 the blood coagulation cascade (Genbank Accession No. NP_000122). The main role of Factor
 VII (FVII) is to initiate the process of coagulation in conjunction with tissue factor (TF). Upon
 vessel injury, TF is exposed to the blood and circulating Factor VII. Once bound to TF, FVII
 is activated to FVIIa by different proteases, among which are thrombin (Factor Ila), activated
 Factor X and the FVIIa-TF complex itself. Recombinant human Factor VIIa
                                                                                in hemophilia
 (NOVOSEVEN) has been introduced for use in uncontrollable bleeding
                                                                              factor.
 patients who have developed inhibitors against replacement coagulation
                                                                                           is a serine
  1001061     Factor IX (FIX, Christmas Factor) (Genbank Accession No. NP_000124)
                                                                               the tissue factor
  protease that is inactive unless activated by Factor XIa or Factor VIIa (of
                                                                                                 bond
  pathway). When activated into Factor IXa, it acts by hydrolyzing an arginine-isoleucine
  in Factor X to form Factor Xa. Factor VIII is a required cofactor for FIX protease activity
                                                                             IX causes hemophilia
  (Lowe GD, Br. J. Haematol. 115: 507-13, 2002). Deficiency of Factor
  B or Christmas disease.
                                                                                  Accession No.
  [001071     Additional blood factors include Factor II (thrombin) (Genbank
  NP_000497), deficiencies of which cause thrombosis and dysprothrombinemia; Factor V,
                                                   25

(Genbank Accession No. NP_000121), deficiencies of which cause hemorrhagic diathesis or
a form of thrombophilia, which is known as activated protein C resistance, Factor XI (Genbank
Accession No. NP_000119), deficiencies of which cause Rosenthal's syndrome (hemophilia
C), and Factor XIII subunit A (Genbank Accession No. NP_000120) and subunit B (Genbank
Accession No. NP_001985), deficiencies of which are characterized as a type I deficiency
(deficiency in both the A and B subunits) and type II deficiency (deficiency in the A subunit
alone), either of which can result in a lifelong bleeding tendency, defective wound healing, and
habitual abortion; Factor XII (Genbank Accession No. NP_000496); protein C (Genbank
Accession No. NP_000303); antithrombin III (Genbank Accession No. NP_000479), and
activated forms thereof.
Polypeptide Variants and Analogs
[001081     Methods of the invention are useful to rapidly detect recombinant proteins in a
sample, as well as fragments, analogs or variants of the recombinant protein, and further may
be useful to detect naturally-occurring protein which may exist as fragments or allelic variants
in vivo wherein glycosylation differences aredetected.
1001091     Methods for preparing polypeptide fragments, analogs or variants are well-known
in the art. Fragments of a polypeptide are prepared using methods well known in the art,
including enzymatic cleavage (e.g., trypsin, chymotrypsin) and also using recombinant means
to generate a polypeptide fragment having a specific amino acid sequence. Fragments may be
generated to comprise a ligand-binding domain, a receptor-binding domain, a dimerization or
multimerization domain, or any other identifiable domain known in the art.
[001101     Methods of making polypeptide analogs are also well-known. Analogs are, in
certain aspects, substantially homologous or substantially identical to the naturally-occurring
polypeptide from which the analog is derived, and analogs contemplated by the invention are
those which retain at least some of the biological activity of the naturally-occurring
polypeptide.
[001111     Substitution analogs typically exchange one amino acid of the wild-type for another
at one or more sites within the protein, and are, in certain aspects, designed to modulate one or
more properties of the polypeptide, such as stability against proteolytic cleavage, without the
loss of other functions or properties. Substitutions of this kind are generally conservative. By
"conservative amino acid substitution" is meant substitution of an amino acid with an amino
acid having a side chain of a similar chemical character. Similar amino acids for making
                                                 26

conservative substitutions include those having an acidic side chain (glutamic acid, aspartic
acid); a basic side chain (arginine, lysine, histidine); a polar amide side chain (glutamine,
asparagine); a hydrophobic, aliphatic side chain (leucine, isoleucine, valine, alanine, glycine);
an aromatic side chain (phenylalanine, tryptophan, tyrosine); a small side chain (glycine,
alanine, serine, threonine, methionine); or an aliphatic hydroxyl side chain shrinee, threonine).
[001121     Polynucleotide analogs and fragments may be readily generated by a worker of skill
to encode biologically active fragments, variants, or mutants of the naturally occurring
molecule that possess the same or similar biological activity to the naturally occurring
molecule. Routinely practiced methods include PCR techniques, enzymatic digestion of DNA
encoding the protein molecule and ligation to heterologous polynucleotide sequences, and the
like. For example, point mutagenesis, using PCR and other techniques well-known in the art,
may be employed to identify with particularity which amino acid residues are important in
particular activities associated with protein activity. Thus, one of skill in the art will be able to
generate single base changes in the DNA strand to result in an altered codon and a missense
mutation.
 [00113]     It is further contemplated that the protein or polypeptide is modified to make an
analog which is a fusion protein comprising a second agent which is a polypeptide. In one
embodiment, the second agent which is a polypeptide is an enzyme, a growth factor, a
cytokine, a chemokine, a cell-surface receptor, the extracellular domain of a cell surface
receptor, a cell adhesion molecule, or fragment or active domain of a protein described above
 or of any other type of protein known in the art. In a related embodiment, the second agent is
 a blood clotting factor such as Factor II, Factor V, Factor VII, Factor VIII, Factor IX, Factor
 X, Factor XI, Factor XII, Facter XIII, von Willebrand Factor, protein C, antithrombin III, and
 activated forms thereof. The fusion protein contemplated is made by chemical or recombinant
 techniques well-known in the art.
 1001141     Protein variants contemplated include polypeptides chemically modified by such
 techniques as ubiquitination, glycosylation, conjugation to therapeutic or diagnostic agents,
 labeling (e.g., with radionuclides or various enzymes), covalent polymer attachment such as
 PEGylation (derivatization with polyethylene glycol), introduction of non-hydrolyzable bonds,
 and insertion or substitution by chemical synthesis of amino acids such as ornithine, which do
 not normally occur in human proteins. Variants retain the binding properties of non-modified
 molecules of the invention.
                                                  27

1001151      Additional polypeptide variants useful in the methods of the present invention
include polypeptides comprising polysialylate (PSA) moieties. Methods for preparing
polysialylated polypeptide are described in U.S. Patent Publication 20060160948 and Saenko
et al., Haemophilia 12:42-51, 2006.
Physiologically Acceptable Polymers
1001161      In one embodiment, the invention contemplates chemically modified proteins or
polypeptides, which have been linked to a chemical moiety that provides advantageous effects
to production, viability of the protein or polypeptide. For example, nonspecific or site-specific
conjugation of physiologically acceptable polymers to polypeptides is known in the art to
improve half-life by potentially reducing immunogenicity, renal clearance, and/or improving
protease resistance.
 [00117]     A physiologically acceptable polymer molecule includes polymer molecules which,
 for example, are substantially soluble in an aqueous solution or may be present in form of a
 suspension and have substantially no negative impact, such as side effects, to mammals upon
 administration of a polymer molecule-protein-conjugate in a pharmaceutically effective
 amount and are regarded as biocompatible. There is no particular limitation to the
 physiologically acceptable polymer molecule used according to the present invention.
 1001181      The polymer molecules are typically characterized as having for example from
 about 2 to about 1000, or from about 2 to about 300 repeating units. Examples of such polymer
 molecules include, but are not limited to, poly(alkylene glycols) such as polyethylene glycol
 (PEG), poly(propylene glycol) ("PPG"), copolymers of ethylene glycol and propylene glycol
 and the like, poly(oxyethylated polyol), poly(olefinic alcohol), poly(vinylpyrrolidone),
 poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylamide), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylate), poly(saccharides),
 poly(a-hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl alcohol), polyphosphasphazene, polyoxazoline,
 poly(N-acryloylmorpholine), poly(alkylene oxide) polymers, poly(maleic acid),
 poly(DL-alanine), polysaccharides, such as carboxymethylcellulose, dextran, hyaluronic acid
  and chitin, poly(meth)acrylates, and combinations of any of the foregoing.
  [001191     For example water-soluble polymers, including but not limited to, poly(ethylene
  glycol) (PEG), poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO), polyoxyethylene (POE), polyvinyl alcohols,
  hydroxyethyl celluloses, or dextrans, are commonly conjugated to proteins or peptides to
  increase stability or size, etc., of a protein or peptide.
                                                     28

1001201     PEG, PEO or POE refers to an oligomer or polymer of ethylene oxide. PEGs and
PEOs include molecules with a distribution of molecular weights, i.e., polydisperse. The size
distribution is characterized statistically by its weight average molecular weight (Mw) and its
number average molecular weight (Mn), the ratio of which is called the polydispersity index
(Mw/Mn). Mw and Mn are measured, in certain aspects, by mass spectroscopy. Most of the
PEG-protein conjugates, particularly those conjugated to PEG larger than I KD, exhibit a
range of molecular weights due to a polydisperse nature of the parent PEG molecule. For
example, in case of mPEG2K (Sunbright ME-020HS, NOF), actual molecular masses are
distributed over a range of 1.5 ~ 3.0 KD with a polydispersity index of 1.036. Exceptions are
proteins conjugated to MS(PEG)n (N=4, 8, 12 or 24, e.g., PEO4, PEO12)-based reagents
(Pierce), which are specially prepared as monodisperse mixtures with discrete chain length and
defined molecular weight.
1001211     The physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is not limited to a particular
structure and is, in various aspects, linear (e.g. alkoxy PEG or bifunctional PEG), branched or
multi-armed (e.g. forked PEG or PEG attached to a polyol core), dentritic, or with degradable
linkages. Moreover, the internal structure of the polymer molecule is organized in any number
of different patterns and is selected from the group consisting of homopolymer, alternating
copolymer, random copolymer, block copolymer, alternating tripolymer, random tripolymer,
and block tripolymer.
 [001221    In one specific example of the present invention, the physiologically acceptable
polymer molecule is PEG and derivatives thereof. There is no specific limitation of the PEG
used according to the present invention. For example, PEG-protein conjugates include but are
not limited to linear or branched conjugates, polymer:proteins conjugated by NHS
(N-hydroxysuccinimide)- or aldehyde-based chemistry, variants with a different chemical
linkage between the PEG chain and conjugation site, and variants differing in lengths. The
average molecular weight of the PEG will range from about 3 kiloDalton ("kDa") to about 200
kDa, from about 5 to about 120 kDa, from about 10 to about 100 kDa, from about 20 to about
50 kDa,from about 5 kDa to about 60 kDa, from about 5 kDa to about 40 kDa, from about 3 to
about 30 kDa, from about 5 kDa to about 25 kDa, from about 5 kDa to about 15 kDa, or from
 about 5 kDa to about 10 kDa. In certain embodiments, the PEG is about 5 kDa, about 10 kDa,
  about 15 kDa, about 20 kDa, about 25 kDa, is about 30 kDa, about 35 kDa, about 40 kDa,
 about 45 kDa, about 50 kDa, about 55 kDa, about 60 kDa, about 65 kDa, about 70 kDa, about
 75 kDa, about 80 kDa, about 85 kDa, about 90 kDa, about 95 kDa, about 100 kDa, about 110
                                                  29

kDa, about 120 kDa, about 130 kDa, about 140 kDa, about 150 kDa, about 160 kDa, about 170
kDa, about 180 kDa, about 190 kDa, or about 200 kDa.
1001231     The invention contemplates PEG-protein conjugates selected from the group
consisting of linear PEG-protein conjugates that are NHS-conjugated and range in length from
-(CH2-CH2-O)n-, where n = I to 2000, linear PEG-protein conjugates that are
aldehyde-conjugated and range in length from-(CH2-CH2-O)n-, where n = 1 to 2000, two-arm
branched PEG-protein conjugates that are NHS-conjugated and range in length, from 3 to 100
kDa in mass, and three-arn branched PEG-protein conjugates that are NHS-conjugated. The
invention also contemplates PEG-protein conjugates that contain different chemical linkages
(-CO(CH2)n-, and -(CH2)n- where n = 1 to 5) between its conjugation site and the PEG chain.
 The invention further contemplates charged, anionic PEG-protein conjugates to reduce renal
clearance, including but not limited to carboxylated, sulfated and phosphorylated compounds
(anionic) (Caliceti & Veronese, Adv Drug Deliv Rev 2003 55(10):1261-77; Perlman et al., J
Clin Endo Metab 2003 88(7):3227-35; Pitkin et al., Antimicrob Agents Chemother 1986 29(3):
440-44; Vehaskari et al., Kidney Intl 1982 22 127-135). In a further embodiment, the peptide
is optionally conjugated to a moiety including a bisphosphonate, a water-soluble polymer such
as PEG or PEO, carbohydrates, fatty acids, or further amino acids.
[001241      Macromolecule chemical modification is, in one aspect, performed in a
non-specific fashion (leading to mixtures of modified species) or in a site-specific fashion
(based on wild-type macromolecule reactivity-directed modification and/or site-selective
modification using a combination of site-directed mutagenesis and chemical modification) or,
alternatively, using expressed protein ligation methods (Curr Opin Biotechnol. 13(4):297-303
(2002)).
 1001251     To discover if the in vivo therapeutic half-life of a peptide would benefit from
PEGylation, a variety of different PEG-protein conjugates are synthesized, characterized in
vitro and in-vivo for pharmacokinetics. In order to both optimize the potential effects of
PEGylation a design strategy is employed wherein polymer length, conformation, and charge
of PEG is varied.
 1001261     Methods for preparing the PEGylated protein of the present invention generally
 comprise the steps of (a) reacting the protein of interest with polyethylene glycol under
 conditions whereby PEG becomes attached to the N-terminus/C-terminus of the protein, and
 (b) obtaining the reaction product(s). Because PEGylating a protein might significantly alter
                                                  30

the intrinsic activity of the protein, different types of PEG are explored. The chemistry used for
PEGylation of protein includes, but is not limited to, the acylation of the primary amines of the
protein using the NHS-ester of methoxy-PEG
(0-[(N-Succinimidyloxycarbonyl)-methyl]-O'-methylpolyethylene glycol). Acylation with
methoxy-PEG-NHS or methoxy-PEG-SPA results in an amide linkage that eliminates the
charge from the original primary amine (also, Boc-PEG for C-terminus). Unlike ribosome
protein synthesis, synthetic peptide synthesis proceeds from the C-terminus to the N-terminus.
  Therefore, Boc-PEG is one method (i.e. using tert-(B)utyl (o)xy (c)arbonyl (Boc, t-Boc)
synthesis) to attach PEG to the C-terminus of the peptide (R. B. Merrifield (1963). "Solid
Phase Peptide Synthesis. 1.The Synthesis of a Tetrapeptide". J. Am. Chem. Soc. 85 (14):
2149-2154). (F)luorenyl-(m)eth(o)xy-(c)arbonyl (FMOC) chemistry (Atherton, E.; Sheppard,
R.C. (1989). Solid Phasepeptide synthesis: a practicalapproach.Oxford, England: IRL
Press.) is favored because it does not require the hazardous use of hydrofluoric acid to remove
side-chain protecting groups. The present methods provide for a substantially homogenous
mixture of polymer:protein conjugate. "Substantially homogenous" as used herein means that
only polymer:protein conjugate molecules are observed. The polymer:protein conjugate has
biological activity and the present "substantially homogenous" PEGylated protein preparations
are those which are homogenous enough to display the advantages of a homogenous
preparation, e.g., ease in clinical application in predictability of lot to lot pharmiacokinetics.
 [001271     Exemplary stable linkers that can facilitate conjugation of the physiologically
 acceptable polymer to the polypeptide of interest include, but are not limited to, amide, amine,
 ether, carbamate, thiourea, urea, thiocarbamate, thiocarbonate, thioether, thioester, and
 dithiocarbamate linkages, such as o,o-aminoalkane, N-carboxyalkylmaleimide, or
 aminoalkanoic acids, maleimidobenzoyl sulfosuccinimide ester, glutaraldehyde, or succinic
 anhydride, N-carboxymethylmaleimide N,N'-disuccinimidyl oxalate and
 1,1'-bis[6-(trifluoromethy)benzo-triazolyl] oxalate.
 [001281     In other embodiments, the physiologically acceptable polymer is conjugated to the
 polypeptide using a releasable linker. In one embodiment, the releasable linker is a
 hydrolyzable linkers A hydrolyzable or degradable bond is a relatively weak bond that reacts
 with water (i.e., is hydrolyzed) under physiological conditions. The tendency of a bond to
 hydrolyze in water will depend not only on the general type of linkage connecting two central
 atoms but also on the substituents attached to these central atoms. Methods of making
 conjugates comprising water soluble polymers having hydrolyzable linkers are described in US
                                                    31

Patent 7,259,224 (Nektar Therapeutics) and US Patent 7,267,941 (Nektar Therapeutics and
National Institutes of Health). For example, a PEG can be prepared having ester linkages in the
polymer backbone that are subject to hydrolysis. This hydrolysis results in cleavage of the
polymer into fragments of lower molecular weight. Appropriate hydrolytically unstable or
weak linkages include but are not limited to carboxylate ester, phosphate ester, anhydrides,
acetals, ketals, acyloxyalkyl ether, imines, orthoesters, peptides and oligonucleotides,
thioesters, thiolesters, and carbonates. Hydrolytically degradable linkages that may be
contained within the polymer backbone include carbamate, carbonate, sulfate, and
acyloxyalkyl ether linkages; imine linkages, resulting, for example, from reaction of an amine
and an aldehyde (see, e.g., Ouchi et al., Polymer Preprints, 38(1):582-3 (1997)); carbamate,
phosphate ester, hydrazone, acetal, ketal, or orthoester linkages, including
acetone-bis-(N-maleimidoethyl)ketal linkers (MK).
 1001291     In a further embodiment, the polymer molecules contemplated for use in the
PEGylation approaches described herein are selected from among water-soluble polymers or
a mixture thereof. The polymer may have a single reactive group, such as an active ester for
acylation or an aldehyde for alkylation, so that the degree of polymerization may be controlled.
 The water-soluble polymer, or mixture thereof if desired, may be selected from the group
 consisting of, for example, PEG, monomethoxy-PEG, PEO, dextran, poly-(N-vinyl
 pyrrolidone), propylene glycol homopolymers, fatty acids, a polypropylene oxide/ethylene
                                                                                      TM
 oxide co-polymer, polyoxyethylated polyols (e.g., glycerol), HPMA, FLEXIMAR , and
 polyvinyl alcohol, mono-(C 1-C O)alkoxy-PEG, aryloxy-PEG, tresyl monomethoxy PEG,
 PEG propionaldehyde, bis-succinimidyl carbonate PEG, cellulose, other carbohydrate-based
 polymers, or mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments, the polymer selected is water-soluble
 so that the protein to which it is attached does not precipitate in an aqueous environment, such
 as a physiological environment. The polymer is, in various aspects, branched or unbranched.
 In one embodiment, for therapeutic use of the end-product preparation, the polymer is
 pharmaceutically acceptable. Methods for generating peptides comprising a PEG moiety are
 well-known in the art. See, for example, US Patent 5,824,784.
 1001301      In one embodiment, the reactive aldehyde is PEG- propionaldehyde, which is
 water-stable, or mono-CI-C1O alkoxy or aryloxy derivatives thereof (see U.S. Patent No.
 5,252,714). As used herein, PEG is meant to encompass any of the forms of PEG that have
 been used to derivatize other proteins, such as mono-(C I-C10) alkoxy- or
 aryloxy-polyethylene glycol. In some embodiments, the polymer is branched or unbranched.
                                                  32

In one embodiment, for therapeutic use of the end-product preparation, the polymer is
pharmaceutically acceptable.
1001311     A protein bound to at least one physiologically acceptable polymer molecule
includes a protein covalently bound or non-covalently bound by interactions such as ionic,
hydrophobic, affinity, bioaffinity interactions, to one or more polymer molecules. In one
embodiment, the polymer molecule is coupled to the protein by use of bifunctional reagents
and via a spacer arm. In a related embodiment, the polymer molecule is coupled to the protein
by affinity interaction. For example, the protein is biotinylated and avidin or streptavidin
conjugated polymer molecules is bound to the protein. Further, polyclonal or monoclonal
antibodies as well as fragments thereof are bound to a polymer molecule, and then this complex
is bound to the protein. Polymer molecules are bound to the protein also by enzymatic methods
such as, for example, the transfer of saccharides with polyglycosyltransferase (US 6,379,933)
or glycopegylation (US 2004 0132640). Another approach is the binding of polymer
molecules to the protein on the basis of their biological function, like for example the binding
of PEGylated collagens or collagen fragments to the Al and A3 domains of the VWF protein.
F or this purpose, in certain aspects, collagens from type I and IlI, e.g. from human placenta,
showing a strong interaction with the VWF are used. The binding of the polymer molecule is
irreversible or reversible under physiological conditions after an in vivo-application of the
protein.
1001321     In one example of the present invention, in step (a) the protein bound to at least one
physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is immobilized on a substrate or carrier matrix,
for example by an antibody being capable of specifically binding to said protein.
1001331     A substrate or carrier matrix does not have any specific limitations, and relates, for
example, to an insoluble polymer material, which can be an organic polymer, such as
polyamide or a vinyl polymer (e.g. poly(meth)acrylate, polystyrene and polyvinyl alcohol, or
derivatives thereof), a natural polymer such as cellulose, dextrane, agarose, chitin and
polyamino acids, or an inorganic polymer, such as glass or metallohydroxide. In certain
embodiments, the substrate is in the form of a microcarrier, particles, membranes, strips, paper,
film, pearls, beads or plates, such as microtiter plates. In one aspect, the protein bound to at
least one physiologically acceptable polymer molecule is immobilized on the substrate directly
by covalent coupling or via a carrier such as a linker molecule or an antibody immobilized on
the substrate.
                                                33

Detectable Labels
[001341      In some embodiments, the protein or polymer useful in the method of the invention
is labeled to facilitate its detection. A "label" or a "detectable moiety" is a composition
detectable by spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, chemical, or other
physical means.
1001351      Depending on the screening assay employed, the protein or fragment thereof, or the
polymer,or a portion thereof is labelled. The particular label or detectable group used is not a
critical aspect of the invention, as long as it does not significantly interfere with the biological
activity of the conjugate. The detectable group is any material having a detectable physical or
chemical property. Thus, a label is any composition detectable by spectroscopic,
photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, electrical, optical or chemical means.
 [001361      Examples of labels suitable for use in the present invention include, but are not
 limited to, fluorescent dyes (e.g., fluorescein isothiocyanate, Texas red, rhodamine, and the
 like), radiolabels (e.g., 3H, 1251, 35S, 14C, or 32P), enzymes (e.g., horse radish peroxidase,
 alkaline phosphatase and others commonly used in an ELISA), and colorimetric labels such as
 colloidal gold or colored glass or plastic beads (e.g., polystyrene, polypropylene, latex, etc.).
 1001371      The label may be coupled directly or indirectly to the desired component of the
 assay according to methods well known in the art. Preferably, the label in one embodiment is
 covalently bound to the biopolymer using an isocyanate reagent for conjugating an active agent
 according to the invention. In one aspect of the invention, the bifunctional isocyanate reagents
 of the invention are used to conjugate a label to a biopolymer to form a label biopolymer
 conjugate without an active agent attached thereto. The label biopolymer conjugate may be
 used as an intermediate for the synthesis of a labeled conjugate according to the invention or
 may be used to detect the biopolymer conjugate. As indicated above, a wide variety of labels
 are used, with the choice of label depending on sensitivity required, ease of conjugation with
 the desired component of the assay, stability requirements, available instrumentation, and
  disposal provisions. Non-radioactive labels are often attached by indirect means. Generally,
  a ligand molecule (e.g., biotin) is covalently bound to the molecule. The ligand binds to
  another molecules (e.g., streptavidin) molecule, which is either inherently detectable or
  covalently bound to a signal system, such as a detectable enzyme, a fluorescent compound, or
  a chemiluminescent compound.
                                                  34

100138]      In certain aspects, the conjugates are conjugated directly to signal generating
compounds, e.g., by conjugation with an enzyme or fluorophore. Enzymes suitable for use as
labels include, but are not limited to, hydrolases, particularly phosphatases, esterases and
glycosidases, or oxidotases, particularly peroxidases. Fluorescent compounds, i.e.,
fluorophores, suitable for use as labels include, but are not limited to, fluorescein and its
derivatives, rhodamine and its derivatives, dansyl, umbelliferone, etc. Further examples of
suitable fluorophores include, but are not limited to, eosin, TRITC-amine, quinine, fluorescein
W, acridine yellow, lissamine rhodamine, B sulfonyl chloride erythroscein, ruthenium (tris,
bipyridinium), Texas Red, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, flavin adenine dinucleotide, etc.
 Chemiluminescent compounds suitable for use as labels include, but are not limited to,
luciferin and 2,3-dihydrophthalazinediones, e.g., luminol. For a review of various labelling or
signal producing systems that are used in the methods of the present invention, see U.S. Patent
No. 4,391,904.
[001391      Means for detecting labels are well known to those of skill in the art. Thus, for
example, where the label is radioactive, means for detection include a scintillation counter
(e.g., radioimmunoassay, scintillation proximity assay) (Pitas et al., Drug Metab Dispos.
34:906-12, 2006) or photographic film, as in autoradiography. Where the label is a fluorescent
label, it may be detected by exciting the fluorochrome with the appropriate wavelength of light
and detecting the resulting fluorescence (e.g., ELISA, immunoblot, flow cytometry, or other
methods known in the art). The fluorescence may be detected visually, by the use of electronic
detectors such as charge coupled devices (CCDs) or photomultipliers and the like. Similarly,
enzymatic labels may be detected by providing the appropriate substrates for the enzyme and
detecting the resulting reaction product. Colorimetric or chemiluminescent labels may be
detected simply by observing the color associated with the label. Other labeling and detection
systems suitable for use in the methods of the present invention will be readily apparent to
those of skill in the art.
1001401      In one embodiment the label, the protein:polymer conjugate or the polymer:protein
complex conjugate contemplated for use in the method are linked to a solid support, such as a
substrate or carrier matrix, including but not limited to, a filter, a microcarrier, a particle, a
membrane, a strip, paper, a film, a bead or a plate, or any other carrier matrix known in the art.
                                                 35

1001411     It is further contemplated that the labeled compounds may be labeled and interact in
solution. For example, the capture antibody may be labeled with a fluorescent resonance
energy transfer (FRET) donor molecule and the target molecule is labeled with a FRET
acceptor molecule such that the molecules are in proximity when binding occurs.
Alternatively, the target molecule may be labeled with the FRET donor and the antibody
molecule the FRET acceptor. Another possibility is to separate quenching and fluorescent
molecule both present on the antibody or target when target and antibody hybridize. The target
molecule is only close enough for its label to emit if it is interacting with the reagent. This
produces a system where the molecule only emits when it interacts with the reagent (direct
monitoring). In one embodiment, a narrow band pass filter is used to block all wavelengths
except that of the molecule's label. FRET molecule pairs are commercially available in the art
(e.g., from Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), and may be used according to the manufacturer's
protocol. FRET emissions are detected using optical imaging techniques, such as a CCD
camera.
[001421     Another method of detecting antibody-antigen interactions is to label it with an
electron donor. This donor label would give electrons to an electrical contact to which the
reagent is bound. See, for example, Ghindilis, A. (Biochem Soc Trans. 28:84-9, 2000) and Dai
et al. (Cancer Detect Prev. 29:233-40, 2005) which describe enzymes useful in and methods for
electro immunoassays. The electron contact would then be read by an A to D (analog to
digital) converter and quantified. The higher the electron count the more interactions took
place.
 1001431     One embodiment of a label capable of single molecule detection is the use of
plasmon-resonant particles (PRPs) as optical reporters, as described in Schultz et al., Proc.
Nat'l Acad. Sci., 97:996-1001 (2000), incorporated herein by reference. PRPs are metallic
 nanoparticles, typically 40-100 nm in diameter, which scatter light elastically with remarkable
 efficiency because of a collective resonance of the conduction electrons in the metal (i.e., the
 surface plasmon resonance). The magnitude, peak wavelength, and spectral bandwidth of the
 plasmon resonance associated with a nanoparticle are dependent on the particle's size, shape,
 and material composition, as well as the local environment. By influencing these parameters
 during preparation, PRPs are formed that have scattering peak anywhere in the visible range of
 the spectrum. For spherical PRPs, both the peak scattering wavelength and scattering
 efficiency increase with larger radius, providing a means for producing differently colored
 labels. Populations of silver spheres, for example, are reproducibly prepared for which the
                                                  36

peak scattering wavelength is within a few nanometers of the targeted wavelength, by adjusting
the final radius of the spheres during preparation. Because PRPs are bright, yet nanosized, they
are used as indicators for single-molecule detection; that is, the presence of a bound PRP in a
field of view can indicate a single binding event.
[00144]      It is contemplated that the assay and the detection are useful to determine the
number of polymers bound to a protein or protein complex, or to determine the extent of free
polymer in a solution, such as serum or plasma. The detectable signal observed in the method
correlates with the number of polymers bound to the protein or protein complex, or free in
solution when compared to a standard having a known amount of polymer.
1001451      Therefore, in one embodiment, the invention provides a method for determining the
number of physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to a protein or a protein
complex or free in solution comprising, contacting said polymer with an antibody that
specifically binds said polymer, wherein the number of polymers bound by the antibody
correlates with levels of antibody detected bound when compared to a known control.
1001461      In an alternate embodiment, the invention contemplates a method for determining
the number of physiologically acceptable polymer molecules bound to a protein or a protein
complex, contacting said protein or protein complex with an antibody that specifically binds
said protein or protein complex, wherein the number of polymers bound by the antibody
correlates with levels of antibody detected bound when compared to a known control.
100147]      In related embodiments, the method of the invention is carried out using an other
detection regimens, for example, wherein the protein and polymer specific antibodies are used
in any order as follows, wherein the first antibody listed is the antibody bound to the carrier
matrix and the second antibody bound in the antibody that is detectable. Exemplary assays
useful to detect the number of polymers bound to a protein or protein complex include an
anti-polymer - anti-protein detection method, an anti-protein - anti-polymer detection method,
or an anti-polymer-anti-polymer detection method, wherein the anti-polymer antibody is the
same antibody for each binding step, or is a different polymer-specific antibody for each step.
 In a related embodiment, the assay is carried out using only an anti-polymer specific antibody
or an anti-protein-specific antibody.
Kits
1001481      As an additional aspect, the invention includes kits which comprise one or more
compounds or compositions packaged in a manner which facilitates their use to practice
                                                 37

methods of the invention. In one embodiment, such a kit includes a composition comprising
a protein or protein complex conjugated to a physiologically acceptable polymer, such as
PEGylated Factor VIII, and an antibody or other molecule that specifically detects the water
soluble polymer on the protein, packaged in a container such as a sealed bottle or vessel, with
a label affixed to the container or included in the package that describes use of the compound
or composition in practicing the method. In related embodiments, the binding agent is a
soluble receptor, a ligand, a cofactor or another agent that specifically binds the protein, protein
complex or polymer. The kit may optionally include reagents and buffers for preparation of the
samples for detection of the polymer-protein complex. Preferably, the compound or
composition is packaged in a unit dosage form. The kit may further include a device suitable
for administering the composition according to a specific route of administration. Preferably,
the kit contains a label that describes use of the modified blood factor composition.
1001491      In one embodiment of the present invention, the method includes an Enzyme
Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) comprising the following steps:
[001501       (i) immobilizing an antibody being capable of specifically binding to a protein
bound to at least one physiologically acceptable polymer molecule to an ELISA plate;
 [001511     (ii) binding the protein of interest to the immobilized antibody; and
 1001521     (iii)detecting the amount of physiologically acceptable polymer molecule bound to
the protein by an antibody being capable of specifically binding to a physiologically acceptable
polymer molecule bound to said protein of interest.
 [001531     The present invention will be further illustrated in the following examples, without
 any limitation thereto.
                                            EXAMPLES
                                              Example 1
     Direct Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) on the antigen HSAP-2-SS
                            (PEGylated human serum albumin (hSA))
 1001541      To determine if polyclonal antibodies to PEG generated using a PEGylated antigen
 injected into animals, human serum albumin (hSA) was linked to PEG and the protein
 conjugate injected into rabbits. The amount of anti-PEG antibody was then measured.
                                                   38

                                                                                                 AW
[001551       In brief, a polyclonal antibody is generated by immunization of rabbits (Richter
et al. 1983; Int Arch Allergy Appi Immunol 70:124-3 1) with PEG covalently bound to human
serum albumin (HSA). Rabbits are inoculated with preparations of the antigen HSAP-2-h-SS
                                                                                                all
with about 380 ptg/ml protein and a PEG concentration of 250 Ig/ml. Serum samples of
animals are taken before the start and after 3 and 4 weeks and are subsequently tested for
detectable antibody formation against the antigen HSAP-2-h-SS.         The antigen HSAP-2-h-SS
                                                                                samples are diluted
(PEGylated hSA) is coated in 0.1 M carbonate at pH 9.6 at I ptg/ml. The
in PBS-gelatin buffer and incubated with the wells and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit
                                                                                           (Naser,
IgG-HRP antibody using Single Incubation Multilayer Immune Technique (SIMIT)
                                                                                              ligand
W., J Immunol Methods. 129:151-7, 1990). In SIMIT, the ligand (e.g., antibody) and
binding agent (e.g., anti-antibody) are co-incubated in order that during a single incubation
 step, multiple layers of immunoreactants are formed thereby resulting in enhanced assay
 sensitivity. An antibody formation against the antigen HSAP-2-h-SS is detectable. The
                                                                                        of
 antigen can be coated directly on plate and there is an increase of titer with time
 immunization Figure IA).
  [001561      More specifically, PEGylated hSA was prepared according to Abuchowski et al (J
 Biol Chem 252: 3578-81, 1977). The PEGylated hSA had higher molecular weight as shown
                                                                              Serum samples of all
 by high-performance size-exclusion chromatography and SDS-PAGE.
  animals were taken before the start and after 3 and 4 weeks and pooled. These pooled samples
  were subsequently tested for antibody formation against the immunization antigen by a direct
                                                                                                9.6 at
  ELISA. Briefly, the PEGylated hSA was coated in 0.1 M sodium carbonate buffer, pH
  a concentration of 1 ptg/mL to 96-well polystyrene microplates (Nunc Maxisorp F96). The
                                                                                                  1
  pooled rabbit serum samples were diluted in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing
                                                                                            IgG-HRP
  mg/mL gelatin and incubated with the wells and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit
   antibody. An antibody formation against the immunization antigen was detectable. In
   addition, there was an increase of titer with time of immunization (Figure IB). The same
   method was used to measure the antibody titers in samples obtained in another immunization
                                                                                   taken at the start
   study. Table I shows the blank-corrected optical densities (OD) of samples
                                                                                                 1/100
   and after 36 and 50 days. Also in this case, the results for the sample dilutions 1/50 and
   demonstrate the formation of IgG against the immunization antigen that increased with time.
                                              Table 1.
                Anti-PEG IgG titers after immunization with PEGylated hSA
                                           Dilution 1/50                 Dilution 1/100
                                                      39

            Rabbit                  dO        6d      d50        dO        d36        d50
               1                  0.000    0.699     0.651     0.000      0.480      0.260
               2                  0.000    0.420     0.329     0.000      0.233      0.116
               3                  0.000    0.162     0.084     0.000      0.098      0.022
               4                  0.000    0.440     0.343     0.000      0.212      0.116
               5                  0.000    0.423     0.408     0.000      0.196      0.115
               6                  0.003    0.152     0.115     0.002      0.114      0.079
             Mean                 0.001    0.383     0.322     0.000      0.222      0.118
[001571      These results show that a PEG conjugated hSA protein induces the production of
polyclonal antibodies from subject animals.
                                             Example 2
              Inhibition of the direct ELISA on the antigen HSAP-2-SS by PEG
[00158]      To determine if the binding of the anti-PEG antibody was specific for PEG, the
ability of free PEG to interfere with antibody binding was assessed.
[001591      In brief, rabbits are immunized with the antigen HSAP-2-SS and serum samples are
prepared as described above (Example 1). The antigen HSAP-2-h-SS is coated on a surface in
0.1 M carbonate at pH 9.6 at 1 pig/ml. The samples are diluted in PBS-gelatin buffer or
PBS-gelatin-1I% PEG 5000 buffer (+ 1% PEG) and incubated with the wells and subsequently
with a goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP antibody (SIMIT). The binding of the antibody to the antigen
(=PEGylated hSA) obtained by the immunization of rabbits can be inhibited by the addition of
PEG 5000 to the sample dilution buffer (Figure 2A).
[001601      More specifically, the anti-PEG specificity of the antisera obtained by
immunization with the PEGylated hSA was checked with an inhibition study. Plates (Example
1) were coated with the immunization antigen PEGylated hSA at a concentration of 10 tg/mL.
 Pooled rabbit serum samples taken 3 and 4 weeks after the start of the immunization were
diluted in PBS-gelatin to obtain dilution series ranging from 1/100 to 1/100,000. PEG 5000
was added at a concentration of 10 mg/mL to inhibit the binding to PEGylated hSA. Bound
rabbit IgG was detected by using a goat anti-rabbit IgG-peroxidase conjugate and the
peroxidase substrate Sureblue. Polyethylene glycol (PEG) 5000 decreased the binding of
rabbit IgG to the plate-immobilized PEGylated hSA (Figure 2B)
                                                 40

1001611      These results demonstrate that the IgG contained in the rabbit serum specifically
recognized and bound to PEG. Residual binding of rabbit IgG in the presence of PEG was
caused by antibodies directed towards hSA. These non-PEG-specific IgGs were adsorbed by
affinity chromatography on immobilized hSA.
                                            Example 3
                              Direct ELISA on a PEG-modified plate
[001621      To determine if the anti-PEG antibody would bind PEG bound directly to the
plastic, a direct PEG ELISA was developed.
[001631      In brief, rabbits are immunized with the antigen HSAP-2-SS and serum samples are
prepared as described above (Example 1). A substrate (NUNC Maxisorp F96) is coated with
mPEG-NPC 5000 at 1 mg/ml in 15 mM HEPES 2 hours at room temperature and then blocked
with PBS-gelatin (5 mg/ml). The samples are diluted in PBS-gelatin buffer and incubated with
the wells and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP antibody (SIMIT). A binding of
the antibodies present in the serum samples to a PEG-modified plate (NUNC Maxisorp F96) is
detected (Figure 3).
1001641      More specifically, rabbits were immunized with PEGylated hSA and serum
samples were prepared as described above (Example 1). Plates (Example 1) were coated with
mPEG-p-nitrophenyl carbonate (NPC; SunBio, Korea) 5000 at I mg/ml in 15 mM HEPES at
room temperature for 2 hours and then blocked with PBS-gelatin (5 mg/ml). The serum
samples were diluted with PBS-gelatin buffer, incubated with the wells and subsequently with
a goat anti-rabbit IgG-peroxidase. A clear binding of IgG present in the rabbit serum samples
to the PEG-modified plate was detected (Figure 3). When the same procedure was carried out
with polylysine- and NH 2 -activated plates (Costar), no reaction could be observed.
1001651      These results demonstrate that the anti-PEG IgG contained in the rabbit serum
samples recognized and bound to PEG.
[00166]      Example 4
Direct ELISA on VWF and PEG-VWFTo determine if the anti-PEG antibody will bind
PEGylated proteins other than the immunization antigen, the anti-PEG antibodies were used in
an ELISA with PEGylated von Willebrand Factor.
                                                41

1001671      In brief, rabbits are immunized with the antigen HSAP-2-SS and serum samples
were prepared as described above (Example 1). A substrate is coated with PEGylated VWF
(PEG-VWF) in 0.1 M carbonate at pH 9.6, another substrate is coated with recombinant VWF
(rVWF-12) in 0.1 M carbonate at pH 9.6. The samples are diluted in PBS-gelatin buffer
incubated with the wells and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP antibody (SIMIT).
 The PEGylation of VWF is determined as an increase in molecular weight confirmed by
SDS-PAGE. The binding of the antibodies present in the serum samples to PEGylated
recombinant VWF (rVWF) is detected. No binding of the antibodies present in the serum
samples to rVWF is observed (Figure 4A).
1001681      More specifically, rabbit serum samples (see Example 1) were allowed to react with
plate-immobilized rVWF and PEGylated rVWF. PEGylated rVWF was prepared by using the
PEGylation reagent as described by Kozlowski et al (BioDrug 5: 419-29, 2001). Both proteins
were coated to polystyrene plates (Example 1). The rabbit serum samples, taken before the
immunization and after 3 weeks, were diluted in PBS-gelatin buffer, incubated with the wells
and subsequently with a goat anti-rabbit IgG-HRP antibody. The binding of the IgG present in
the rabbit serum samples to plate-immobilized PEGylated rVWF was detected, although the
rabbits were immunized with PEGylated hSA. No binding of the IgG present in the rabbit
serum samples to rVWF was observed (Figure 4B).
 1001691     These experiments demonstrate that the anti-PEG antibodies do not
non-specifically bind non-PEGylated protein.
                                              Example 5
                          ELISA for the detection of VWF-PEGylation
 1001701      To determine the ability of the anti-PEG antibody to detect PEGylated protein, such
 as PEGylated VWF, a VWF-PEG ELISA was developed.
 In brief, a substrate (NUNC Maxisorp F96) is coated with anti-VWF antibody and incubated
 with decreasing amounts of PEGylated VWF followed by an incubation with an anti-PEG
 peroxidase conjugate. The bound peroxidase is detected by a color reaction with SureBlue and
 the signal intensity is correlated with the concentration of PEGylated VWF in the dilution
 (Figure 5).
  1001711     More specifically, the following example describes a protein-PEG ELISA that uses
 a protein-specific antibody, preferably derived from rabbit, in combination with an
                                                   42

enzyme-conjugated anti-PEG lgG, preferably derived from rabbits, for the detection and the
measurement of a PEGylated protein. Basically, the PEGylated protein is captured by the
plate-immobilized anti-protein antibody and then allowed to react with an anti-PEG
IgG-peroxidase conjugate. Rabbit anti-human VWF (DakoCytomation A-0082) was diluted
1/500 in sodium carbonate buffer, pH 9.6 and coated to a polystyrene plate (Example 1).
Alternatively, any monoclonal antibody can be used in an appropriate dilution. Washing was
done with PBS, the dilution buffer contained gelatin at 5 mg/mL. rVWF (sample A) and
various PEGylated rVWF preparations (samples E, F, G) were diluted with dilution buffer to
a VWF:Ag concentration of 0.85 mU/mL. Sample A represents the native rVWF before
modification whereas the preparations E, F and G were prepared using the PEGylation reagent
PEG-SS-5K in the molar concentrations of 1 mM, 2.5 mM and 7.5 mM. Five further 1+1
dilutions were prepared and incubated with the plate-immobilized anti-VWF IgG. Bound
PEGylated rVWF was detected by reaction with the anti-PEG IgG peroxidase conjugate and
the peroxidase substrate SureBlue. Table 2 shows the slopes and the regression coefficients for
the dose-response curves of the different preparations measured. Obviously, non-PEGylated
rVWF (sample A) showed no response, whereas the linear dose-response curves of the three
PEGylated rVWF samples E, F and G had clearly differing slopes.
Table 2.
Slope and correlation coefficients of dose-response curves of the rVWF-PEG ELISA
                           Sample A        Sample E         Sample F         Sample G
slope                        000           0.4771           2.0523           4.6259
correlation coefficient    n.a.            1.000            0.992            0.995
 [001721      The three PEGylated rVWF preparations showed increased molecular weight on
SDS PAGE (Figure 5) as compared to the non-PEGylated rVWF. In addition, higher PEG to
rVWF ratios applied for the PEGylation resulted in increased molecular weights of the
PEGylated rVWF preparations and in steeper dose-response curves. Thus, the design
described not only specifically detected protein-bound PEG, but also allowed the
differentiation of preparations with different degrees of PEGylation.
                                           Example 6
          Specificity of the rVWF-PEG ELISA as shown by the inhibition with PEG
                                                43

1001731      In order to assess the specificity of the PEG assay, an inhibition study study was
carried out.
1001741      The assay was done as described above (see Example 5) using the PEGylated rVWF
preparation G with the highest degree of PEGylation. The diluted PEGylated rVWF sample
(0.85 mU/mL) was incubated with the plate-immobilized anti-VWF antibody and then with the
anti-PEG IgG-peroxidase conjugate in the presence of PEG 5000 (50 mg/mL to 0.024 mg/mL).
 PEG 5000 causes a clear dose-dependent inhibition (Figure 6) with an IC 50 of 0.18 pig/mL.
                                              Example 7
                                Description of a PEG-PEG ELISA
 1001751      This example describes a PEG-PEG ELISA that uses the polyclonal rabbit
 anti-PEG IgG for capturing and detecting PEGylated proteins or free PEG.
 1001761      Anti-albumin-depleted rabbit anti-PEG IgG was coated in 0.1 M sodium carbonate,
 pH 9.6 overnight to polystyrene plates (Example 1). The blocking of the plates was done with
                                                                               0
 PBS, pH 6.1 containing 2% non-fat dry milk and 2 mM benzamidine, at 37 C for 3 hours.
 Tween 20 or other polyethoxy-containing detergents were not used for the whole assay.
 Blocking buffer was used to prepare dilution series for the following samples:
 mPEG2-20K-NHS (stable 20K PEGylation reagent as described by Kozlowski et al [Biodrug
 2001; 5: 419-29]) and stable PEGylated rVWF (9.8 ptg bound PEG per IU VWF:Ag), prepared
 by using this reagent; 20K-PEG2-FMOC-NHS (branched "releasable" 20K PEG reagent, as
 described in US2008/0234193) and releasable 20K-PEGylated rVWF (8.2 pIg bound PEG per
 IU VWF:Ag) prepared by using this reagent. The PEG reagents were dissolved in distilled
 water at a concentration of 10 mg/mL and kept at room temperature overnight to hydrolyze the
 active N-hydroxysuccine imide (NHS) group. The samples' dilutions were allowed to bind to
 the plate-immobilized anti PEG antibody at room temperature for 1 hour. The plates were then
  washed and anti-PEG IgG peroxidase was applied. Finally, bound peroxidase activity was
  measured. All samples showed linear dose-response curves (Figure 7), although with different
  sensitivities. The PEGylated rVWF preparations could be measured in the low ng range of
  bound PEG. The non-conjugated free PEG reagents after hydrolysis could also be measured
  with this assay design but higher PEG concentrations were required for the linear
  dose-response relation.
                                                    44

1001771      These findings demonstrated that the anti-PEG IgG obtained by immunization of
rabbits with 5K PEGylated hSA (i) binds not only to 5 k PEG used for the immunization and
(ii) binds to a repeating epitope presented on the PEG chain and not to the protein-PEG linkage
region. By employing a pretreatment for the removal of protein-bound PEG, this assay design
is useful for the measurement of free, non-conjugated PEG as it remains, for example, in the
reaction mixture after PEGylation. In addition, this assay is also useful to measure the amounts
of non-bound PEG in the purified PEG-protein conjugate.
                                            Example 8
                               Specificity of the PEG-PEG ELISA
 1001781     The specificity of the PEG-PEG ELISA described above was shown using the assay
 conditions described above (Example 7). In addition, a non-PEGylated rVWF sample was
 analyzed using the PEG-PEG assay and showed no response, even at more than I 00-times
 higher VWF:Ag concentration (Figure 8). These results demonstrate the specificity of the
 anti-PEG antibody and the PEG-PEG assay.
                                             Example 9
   Description of a PEG-protein ELISA for the measurement of stable PEGylated rVWF
 100179]     To determine if a PEG-specific ELISA would be a sensitive detection method when
 the anti-PEG antibody was used as the capture antibody, a PEG-protein ELISA was developed
 which uses an anti-PEG antibody for capturing the PEGylated protein and a protein-specific
 antibody for detecting the bound PEGylated protein.
  [001801     Albumin-depleted anti-PEG IgG was diluted to about 50 pg/mL with 0.1 M
 carbonate buffer, pH 9.6 and coated to the wells of 96-well polystyrene microplate (Nunc
 Maxisorp F96). The wells were then blocked with dilution buffer (3% non-fat dry milk in PBS,
  2 mM benzamidine; pH 6.1) at 37'C for two hours. Serial dilutions of the samples were then
  loaded and incubated with the wells at room temperature for 60 min. After washing, rabbit
  anti-human VWF-peroxidase (DakoCytomation) was added and bound peroxidase activity was
  measured with SureBlue. Alternatively, the peroxidase conjugate was added to the samples
  and incubated without a preceding washing step using the single incubation multilayer immune
  technique (SIMIT). A stable 20K-PEGylated rVWF preparation (see Example 7) was used.
  The robustness of the PEG-VWF ELISA assay was shown by diluting this preparation in Von
  Willebrand deficient (VWD) mouse plasma (final concentration of VWF in plasma was 90%)
                                                  45

and by the addition of PEG reagent (final concentration of PEG reagent: 1 mg/mL at 0.5 IU
PEGylated VWF) as described in Example 7 and rVWF (final concentration of rVWF: 7 IU at
5 IU PEGylated rVWF). Linear dose-response curves were obtained for all samples in the
range of 27 to 1.7 ng/mL bound PEG (Figure 9) when using the sequential assay format, but
also for the SIMIT format.
[001811     Neither the presence of non-conjugated PEG reagent nor a surplus of
non-PEGylated rVWF impaired the assay. Also, the matrix of VWD mouse plasma did not
interfere. Thus, the assay demonstrates robust and sensitive detection of PEG-protein
conjugates
                                           Example 10
   Description of a PEG-protein ELISA for the measurement of releasable PEGylated
                                              rVWF
[001821     The robustness study described above (see Example 9) was also done with a
releasable 20K PEGylated rVWF preparation (see Example 7). Similar results were obtained
for the releasable 20K-PEGylated rVWF preparation with a linear range of 21 to 1.3 ng/mL
(Figure 10) and no interference of any of the compounds was detected. These data
demonstrated that the linker used to attach the PEG moiety to the protein had no impact on the
detection/measurement of the PEG-protein conjugate.
                                           Example 11
               Specificity of the PEG-protein ELISA for protein-bound PEG
[001831     The specificity of the PEG-protein ELISA was shown by the direct measurement of
the non-conjugated PEG reagents and PEGylated rVWF preparations as described above.
1001841     In both cases, stable and releasable reagents and conjugates were used. Both
PEGylated rVWF preparations showed similar, dose-dependent responses, whereas both
reagents, measured at 10-times higher concentrations, did not show dose-dependent signals
(Figure 11). These data demonstrate that the PEG-protein ELISA specifically detects and
measures PEG-protein conjugates.
                                           Example 12
                              Specificity of a PEG-rFVIII ELISA
                                                46

[001851     To determine if the PEG ELISA described herein could be used for additional blood
clotting factors, the general applicable principle of the PEG-protein ELISA was shown by
analyzing a PEGylated rFVIII preparation using the assay conditions as described above
(Example 9).
[001861     An anti-human FVIII peroxidase (Cedarlane) was used instead of an anti-human
VWF peroxidase for detecting plate-bound PEGylated rFVIII. Results showed that the
PEG-rFVIII ELISA was specific because non-PEGylated rFVIII did not show any signal even
when analyzed at 1000-times higher FVIII:Ag concentrations (Figure 12).
                                           Example 13
             PEG-rFVIII ELISA with stable and releasable PEGylated rFVIII
[001871     The specificity of the PEG ELISA was also measured for stable and releaseable
preparations of PEG-FVIII.
1001881     Albumin-depleted anti-PEG IgG was diluted to about 50 pg/mL with 0.1 M
carbonate buffer, pH 9.6 and coated to the wells of a 96-well polystyrene microplate. The
wells were then blocked with dilution buffer (3% non-fat dry milk in PBS, 2 mM benzamidine;
pH 6.1) at room temperature for two hours. Serial dilutions of the samples were then loaded
and incubated with the wells at room temperature for 60 min. After washing, sheep anti-human
FVIII-peroxidase (Cedarlane) was added and bound peroxidase activity was measured with
SureBlue. A stable and a releasable 20K-PEGylated rFVIII preparation were used. These
preparations had concentrations of bound PEG of 115 ig/mL and 301 ptg/mL, respectively.
Table 3 shows the measuring data obtained on analysis of these samples and gives the
characteristics of the regression curves.
                                                47

 Table 3.
PEG-rFVIII ELISA with stable and releasable PEGylated rFVIIl
                            Releasable PEGylated rFVIII                    ----
Stable PEGylated rFVII-
                                            Day 1                  Day 2
 ng PEG/mL     OlD          ngPEG /mL       plate I       late 2    late I       late 2
57.6           1.181        75.2            0.698         .674     0.761        0.883
28.8             .732       37.6            0.363         .351      .382        0.527
14.4           0.432        18.8            0.182        0175      0.200          .250
7.2            0.237        9.4             0.097        0087      0.104        0.125
3.6              .149       4.7             0.046        0.045     0.049        0.062
slope           ).7600      slope             .9751      09822       .9791        .9740
r09992                      r09985            .9997        .9999    .9996
1001891     The analysis of both the stable PEGylated and the releasable PEGylated rFVIII
preparation resulted in linear dose-response curves in the nanogram range of bound PEG. In
addition, the assay had good reproducibility as shown for the releasable PEGylated rFVIII
preparation, which allows for accurate measurement of PEGylated FVIII.
                                           Example 14
     Influence of different anti-FVIII peroxidase conjugates on the assay performance
 1001901     The influence of different anti-FVIII peroxidase conjugates on the assay
performance was investigated.
 1001911     The PEG-rFVIII ELISA was carried out as described above (see Example 13).
 Detection of anti-human FVIII peroxidase conjugates from Asserachrom and Cedarlane were
 compared in the same assay (Figure 13). In both cases, linear dose-response relations were
 obtained between signal and FVIII:Ag levels of the samples, confirming that both conjugates
 could be used interchangeably.
 1001921     These results suggest that the PEG ELISA is useful with any preparation of
 anti-protein antibody conjugate available at an appropriate selectivity.
                                            Example 15
  Performance of the PEG-FVIII        ELISA    in FVIII-deficient mouse plasma and rat plasma
  [001931    The efficacy and sensitivity of the PEG-rFVIII ELISA was investigated in
 FVIII-deficient mouse plasma and in rat plasma.
                                                   48

 1001941     A releasable PEGylated rFVIII preparation was spiked at a concentration equivalent
to 0.5 tg bound PEG/mL in the plasma of the animals or in dilution buffer. The resulting
dose-response curves of these samples (Figure 14) were very similar in buffer and in the animal
plasma. In addition, stable PEGylated rFVIII was spiked to FVIII-deficient mouse plasma,
diluted 1/10 and 1/20, at levels of bound PEG of 50 ng/mL. Recoveries of 99.8% and 97.9%
of the spiked concentrations were measured. This demonstrated that the PEG-rFVIII ELISA is
useful for monitoring the pharmacokinetic of releasable PEGylated rFVIII at high sensitivity
and specificity without requiring any specific sample pretreatment other than appropriate
sample dilution. Similar data were obtained when samples with PEGylated rVWF were
analyzed.
                                          Example 16:
   Measurement of releasable PEGylated rFVIII preparations with different degree of
                                          PEGylation
[001951      Releasable PEGylated rFVIII preparations with different degree of PEGylation
were analyzed with the PEG-FVIII ELISA.
1001961     The ELISA was done as described above (see Example 13). In addition, the
FVIII:Ag levels of these preparations were measured using a commercially available FVIII
ELISA kit. The degree of PEGylation of these preparations was measured with a HPLC-based
method and was expressed as mol bound PEG per mol FVIIL The PEGylated FVIII
preparation was added to dilution buffer or to FVIII-deficient mouse plasma and these samples
were measured with the PEG-FVIII ELISA The concentrations of bound PEG measured with
the PEG rFVIII ELISA were then normalized to the FVIII:Ag concentrations of these samples
and expressed as pg bound PEG per U FVIII:Ag. These FVIII:Ag-normalized PEG
concentrations correlated well in buffer and in the plasma of FVIII-deficient mice with the
degree of PEGylation as measured for the different preparations with the HPLC-based method
(Figure 15).
[001971     These results show that the PEG-rFVIII ELISA could discriminate between
PEGylated rFVIII preparations according to their degree of PEGylation, and comparison of the
absorbance of the samples to a known standard indicates the degree of PEGylation of the
protein sample.. Additionally, these results are achieved in buffer and also in the matrix of
FVIII deficient mouse plasma as the assay does not require any specific sample pretreatement
except appropriate dilution of the test samples. This provides a method to measure PEGylated
                                               49

protein or other PEG levels in the serum of a patient receiving PEGylated therapeutic protein.
                                           Example 17
                       Influence of free PEG on the PEG-FVII[ ELISA
1001981     The possible interference of free PEG on the PEG ELISA assay was investigated in
a PEG concentration range up to 1000 pg/mL.
[001991     A releasable PEGylated rFVIII preparation was mixed with
20K-PEG2-FMOC-NHS to yield final concentrations of 20, 100, 200, 500 and 1000 pg/mL.
The PEG reagent was dissolved in distilled water and kept overnight to destroy the NHS
reactivity before it was added to the PEGylated rFVIII preparation. The dose-response curves
obtained for these samples were highly similar (Figure 16) and their slopes differed less than
 10%.
1002001      This assays shows that even high levels of free PEG had no influence on detection
levels of the PEG-rFVIII ELISA.
                                           Example 18
              Measurement of PEG release from a releasable PEGylated rFVIII
 [002011     As shown above, the PEG ELISA measures release of the PEG polymer from the
protein-PEG conjugate. To determine if the assay can measure the rate of release, a releasable
 PEGylated rFVIII preparation kept at conditions triggering the release of protein-bound PEG
 was used to measure PEG release over time.
 1002021     The levels of free PEG were measured with size-exclusion chromatography. The
 levels of protein-bound PEG were measured with the PEG-FVIII ELISA and related to the
 FVIII:Ag concentrations of these samples. The FVIII:Ag normalized FVIII-bound PEG levels
 correlated well with the levels of free PEG (see Figure 17).
 1002031     These experiments demonstrated that the PEG-FVIII ELISA was capable of
 monitoring the release of PEG from a releasable PEGylated rFVIlI preparation. This assay is
 useful to measure the release kinetics of PEGylated protein in vivo to patients receiving
 PEGylated FVIII or other PEGylated therapeutic protein.
                                                50

                                            Example 19
                Detection of PEGylated rFVIIa in normal pooled rat plasma
1002041     Alternative methods to determine the levels of PEGylation of a protein or protein
complex include detection of the protein-polymer complex based on molecular weight of the
complex itself. This type of assay is carried out using sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide
gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) isolation of the protein and detection of PEG molecules on
the protein using an anti-PEG Western blot detection method.
[002051     To determine the detection PEGylated protein in plasma using this technique,
samples of PEGylated FVIII were diluted in rat plasma and PEGylated protein levels were
measured.
1002061     Samples of 20-kDa-PEG-FVIla and 40-kDa-PEG-FVIla were diluted to 100 pg/ml,
50 pg/ml, 25 pg/ml, 12.5 pig/ml and 6.3 ig/ml in rat plasma (Sprague Dawley), and subjected
to sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western blot.
Sampling buffer (NuPAGE LDS sample buffer, Invitrogen) was added to I pl of the product
diluted in plasma and loaded onto gradient (3-8%) tris-acetate SDS polyacrylamide gels
(NuPage Novex, 1.0 mm; Invitrogen). Electrophoresis was performed in tris-acetate SDS
running buffer under non-reducing conditions. Proteins were blotted for 16 hours with 1.25
W at +4'C onto polyvinylidene difluoride (PVDF, 0.2 pim) membranes (Sequi-Blot PVDF
membrane, BIO-RAD, Richmond, CA, USA). Afterwards, membranes were blocked in
casein-TBS solution (Pierce, Rockford, IL, USA) for 1 hour at +37'C.
1002071     Afterwards, the immunoblots were incubated with the monoclonal rabbit anti-PEG
antibody (Epitomics, CA, USA), diluted 1/1000 for 2 hours at room temperature. The antibody
was diluted in TBS + 0.05% Tween20 (TBST) + 10% casein-TBS. After 5 washing steps with
TBST, each for 10 minutes, the secondary antibody goat anti-rabbit IgG (H+L)- horseradish
peroxidase (HRP) conjugate was applied (DAKO Cytomation, Glostrup, Denmark), diluted
1/1000 in TBST/10% casein-TBS, for 1 hour at room temperature (RT). After 5 washing steps
with TBST, the blots were developed using the enhanced chemiluminescence (ECL) Plus
Detection Kit according to the manual of the manufacturer (GE Healthcare, Buckinghamshire,
UK).
1002081     For the detection, a less sensitive ECL Western Blotting Reagent was used to
visualize the PEGylated proteins. Even with this technique, the PEGylated protein was
detectable in all applied concentrations. The secondary antibody showed a cross-reaction with
                                                 51

the rat immunoglobulins (band marked with * in Figure 18). This cross reaction could be
avoided by immunodepletion of the rat plasma for the immunoglobulin prior application to the
gel.
                                          Example 20
                  Detection of PEGylated rFVIIa in normal human plasma
 1002091     To determine the detection of PEGylated protein in human plasma, samples of
PEGylated FVIII were diluted and PEGylated protein levels were measured.
 [002101     Samples of 20-kDa-PEG-FVIIa was diluted to 5 pg/ml and 2.5 pig/ml in pooled
normal human (George King Bio-Medical) plasma or in 5% HSA/HNa buffer (25 mM HEPES,
 175 mM NaCI, pH 7.35). The ECL plus detection system was used and the film was exposed
for a very short (30 seconds) time (Figure 2B). For these samples, SDS-PAGE using a 3-8%
tris-acetate gradient gel was followed by Western blot analysis. The ECL Plus Detection
System was used to visualize the bands.
100211]      For comparison, SDS-PAGE using 4-12% bis-tris gradient gels followed by
Western blot analysis of 100 and 50 ng of 20-kDa-PEG-FVIIa detected with anti-PEG antibody
(diluted 1/300 in TBS/0.05% non fat dry milk (BIO-RAD)) and a polyclonal sheep anti-human
FVII antibody (Affinity Biologicals, ON, Canada), diluted 1/2000 in TBST/0.1% non fat dry
milk. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) system was applied to visualize the proteins (Figure
 19A).
1002121      There was no difference detectable whether the PEGylated rFVIIa was diluted in
buffer or in plasma, and only a weak cross reaction with the human plasma was observed
(Figure 19B). These results demonstrate that the method is appropriately sensitive to detect
low levels of conjugated protein in a sample comprising many different proteins, such as
human plasma, and is therefore useful to detect polymer-conjugated protein a sample taken
from a patient receiving blood clotting factor to treat a clotting disorder.
                                          Example 21
    Detection of in vitro PEG-release of 20-kDa-PEG-rFVIIa in normal human plasma
[002131     PEGylation usually decreases the protein's biological function. However,
modifying the proteins with a reversibly-linked PEG, which has the potential to dissociate from
                                               52

the protein over time should allow liberation of the native protein, accompanied with full
restoration of its activity. This process is monitored by measuring the increase of activity in the
plasma over time. However, the measured activity is depending on the rate of release reaction
and inactivation / elimination of the protein. This invention is also suitable to measure the
structural changes including de-PEGylation of such a protein in a plasma matrix.
 1002141     The releasable 20-kDa-PEG-rFVIIa conjugate was diluted to 0.023 pIg/ml in normal
human plasma and incubated for 24 hours at 37 0 C. The release of the PEG molecule was
determined by SDS-PAGE and Western Blot analysis using the specific anti-PEG antibody as
described in Example 1. As shown in Figure 20 the amount of di-PEGylated rFVIla slightly
decreases over time and completely disappears after 24 hours incubation. In contrast, the
mono-PEG species shows a slight increase first and is still present after 24 hours. Thus, the
methods detects sequential de-PEGylation of the protein molecule.
[002151      These results illustrate that the present method allows for the determination of the
degree of water soluble polymer of the surface of a protein or protein complex, and also allows
for a determination of the mechanism of release of a releasable water-soluble polymer from the
protein.
                                             Example 22
                    Detection of PEGylated FVIII in normal human plasma
1002161      To determine the ability of the present assay to detect a change in the degree of
PEGylation, two FVIII samples conjugated with different PEG reagents exhibiting a differing
PEGylation degree were diluted in human plasma and the detection of the molecules measured.
[002171      Samples were diluted in the range of 5 to 1 ig/ml and loaded onto 3-8% gradient
tris-acetate SDS-polyacrylamide gels followed by Western blot analysis. The PEGylation
degree (PD) of the stable 20-kDa PEG-FVIII conjugate is 3.7 (Figure 21A), that of the
releasable one with the same PEG type is 6 (Figure 21B).
100218]      As shown in Figure 21, a higher PEGylation degree resulted in a stronger signal
using the same development conditions.
1002191      These results show that the new method to trace PEGylated proteins in
pharmacokinetic studies described herein can detect changes in their domain structure and
PEGylation degree.
                                                  53

[00220]       Numerous modifications and variations in the invention as set forth in the above
illustrative examples are expected to occur to those skilled in the art. Consequently only such
limitations as appear in the appended claims should be placed on the invention.
[00221]       The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or
"comprising" are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but
not to exclude any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an
exclusive interpretation of the term is required.
[00222]       Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that
the disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                54

                                             CLAIMS
           1.   A method for determining the number of physiologically acceptable polymer
molecules bound to a protein or protein complex in a polymer-protein conjugate, comprising
the steps of
                detecting binding between
                        (i) a polymer:protein conjugate having one or more polymers bound to
the protein and
                        (ii) an antibody that specifically binds said polymer, said antibody
detectable when bound to said polymer:protein conjugate,
                wherein the number of polymers in the polymer:protein conjugate correlates
with levels of antibody detected bound to the polymer:protein conjugate when compared to a
known control.
        2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the antibody comprises a detectable label.
        3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the detectable label is selected from the group
consisting of an enzyme, a radioactive label, a fluorophore, an electron dense reagent, biotin,
digoxigenin, haptens, and proteins which are made detectable by addition of any of these
labels.
        4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer:protein conjugate is bound to a
carrier matrix prior to binding with the antibody.
        5.      The method of claim 4, wherein the substrate is selected from the group
consisting of a microcarrier, a particle, a membrane, a strip, paper, a film, a bead or a plate.
        6.      The method of claim 4, wherein the level of antibody detected is measured as
absorbance of the detectable label.
        7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer:protein conjugate is isolated using
sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and transferred to a
membrane prior to the detecting.
                                                 55

        8        The method of claim 7, wherein the number of polymers in the polymer:protein
conjugate is calculated based on the molecular weight of the protein-polymer conjugate
compared to a known control.
        9.       The method of claim 7, wherein the molecular weight of the polymer-protein
complex correlates with the protein subunit comprising the polymer molecule.
         10.     The method of any one of claims I to 9, wherein the protein or protein complex
is a blood clotting factor or a blood clotting factor complex.
         11.     The method of claim 10 wherein the blood clotting factor or blood clotting
factor complex is human.
         12.     The method of claim 10 wherein the blood clotting factor is selected from the
group consisting of Factor II, Factor III, Factor V, Factor VII, Factor VIII, Factor IX , Factor
X, Factor XI, Factor XII, Facter XIII, von Willebrand Factor, protein C and antithrombin III.
         13.     The method of claim 11 wherein the blood clotting factor complex is
FactorVIII:VWF.
         14.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the polymer is releasable.
         15.     The method of any one of claims I to 13, wherein the polymer is hydrolyzable.
         16      The method of any one of claims I to 15, wherein the polymer is selected from
the group consisting of poly(alkylene glycol), poly(propylene glycol), copolymers of ethylene
glycol and propylene glycol, poly(oxyethylated polyol), poly(olefinic alcohol),
poly(vinylpyrrolidone), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylamide), poly(hydroxyalkylmethacrylate),
poly(saccharides), poly(o-hydroxy acid), poly(vinyl alcohol), polyphosphasphazene,
polyoxazoline, and poly(N-acryloylmorpholine).
         17.     The method of any one of claims I to 16, wherein the polymer is polyethylene
glycol (PEG) or a derivative thereof.
         18.     The method of claim 17, wherein the PEG is from 3 to 100 kDa.
         19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the PEG has a molecular weight in a range of
about 5 kDa to about 60 kDa.
        20.      The method of claim 18, wherein the PEG has a molecular weight in a range of
about 5 kDa to about 40 kDa.
                                                 56

        21.     The method of claim 18, wherein the PEG has a molecular weight in a range of
about 5 kDa to about 15 kDa.
        22.     The method of claim 18, wherein the PEG has a molecular weight in a range of
about 5 kDa to about 10 kDa.
        23.     A method for determining the number of physiologically acceptable polymer
molecules bound to a protein or a protein complex or free in solution comprising,
        contacting said polymer with an antibody that specifically binds said polymer, said
antibody detectable when bound to said polymer,
                wherein the number of polymers bound by the antibody correlates with levels
of antibody detected bound when compared to a known control.
        24.     The method of any one of claims I to 23, wherein the antibody is a polyclonal
antibody.
        25.     The method of any one of claims I to 23, wherein the antibody is monoclonal
antibody.
                                              57

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
