ABSTRACT
        A system for interactive gaming among a plurality of players includes a host computer
system and a plurality of player terminals communicably coupled to the host computer system or
gaming platform via a network. The system includes an electronic collusion detection module,
under the control of one or more processors, configured to detect collusion violations by, at least in
part, determining the locations of each of the plurality of player terminals and evaluating one or
more rules in view of the locations of the plurality of player terminals to determine whether each of
the plurality of player terminals can participate in the interactive gaming session. The plurality of
player terminals or the host computer system collect snapshots of state information of the
interactive gaming session during the course of the interactive gaming session. The snapshots of
the interactive gaming session are submitted to the collusion detection module for analysis to
detect at least action variability, and upon completion of the analysis the winnings from the
interactive gaming session are distributed by adding to the credit associated with one or more of
the plurality of players when no collusion or automated play is detected based on the analysis.

                                                 1/13
  100                                               102          118
                            ii~                                                      114
        110
                                              108
        112
                122-12                                       116          122-52
       122-11          122-13                                      122-51        122-53
 120-1                                                                                   120-5
106-1f                                       10106-5
       122-16         122-14                                       122-56        122-54
                122-15                                                    122-55
                 122-22                                                   122-42
        12-21           122-23                                    122-41         122-43
              120-2              ~122-32124
            120                       122-31          122-33                             2
 106-2f                         120-3                                                 1106-4
        122-26          122-24                                    122-46         122-44
                 122-25        106-a                                      122-45
                                      122-36         122-34
                                             122-35
                                          FIG. 1

                          INTERACTIVE GAMING AMONG A PLURALITY
                              OF PLAYERS SYSTEMS AND METHODS
                        CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims priority from U.S. Patent Application No. 15/192,821, filed on 24
June 2016, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.
                                          TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]      Various embodiments of the technology relate generally to gaming systems.              More
specifically, some embodiments of the technology relate to systems and methods for providing
interactive gaming among a plurality of players.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0003]      The popularity of gambling has increased at extraordinary rates. Many casinos are
opening or reopening poker rooms and Internet poker sites are popping up regularly. Casinos are
also looking for new games and ways to attract players. New players are coming to the casinos
daily.
[0004]      There are, however, several impediments to new players joining the ranks of poker
players and other gamblers. First, with respect to Internet poker and other online gambling, the
legality has not been tested, despite its ever-increasing popularity. Many people simply do not
want to risk the possibility of running afoul of the law.     Second, many people are simply not
comfortable interacting with off-shore enterprises, which is where Internet poker and other
gambling sites are located to avoid the reach of U.S. laws. In order to play at these sites, players
must deposit money, which is not immediately accessible by the player. Many people do not trust
off-shore sites to hold their money.      Third, creating an account at an Internet poker or other
gambling site requires a potential player to divulge personal information that many people simply
do not wish to share. No one knows the limits of how the information will be used. Further, some
people prefer anonymity, which is simply not possible with known Internet poker and other
gambling sites. Hence, for at least these reasons, many people are not becoming poker players
through Internet poker opportunities who otherwise would.
[0005]      Casino poker tables can provide impediments to new players.             For example, the
process of getting on a list to play, getting into a table game, and interacting with the many
characters you will find in a poker room often intimidates new players to the point of disinterest.
[0006]      For at least the foregoing reasons, improved systems and methods are needed for
providing interactive gaming opportunities to players or to at least provide a useful alternative.
                                                   1

                                               SUMMARY
[0007]      In accordance with the present invention there is provided a system facilitating
interactive gaming among a plurality of players, the system comprising:
        a host computer system to engage the plurality of players in an interactive gaming session
                of at least one interactive game,
        a plurality of player terminals communicably coupled to the host computer system via a
                network and configured to engage the plurality of players in head to head play
               within the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system,
               wherein at least one of the plurality of player terminals is a mobile computing device
                         supporting only one of the plurality of players and having a wireless antenna
                        to connect the mobile computing device to the host computer system via the
                         network;
               wherein the host computer system causes the location of each of the plurality of
                         player terminals to be identified;
               wherein each of the plurality of player terminals include a display to depict action
                        from the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system;
               wherein each of the plurality of player terminals are configured to receive a
                         monetary value and upon receiving the monetary value use a processor to
                        generate a credit for one of the plurality of players playing on that player
                        terminal; and
               wherein the players interact with the interactive gaming session during the course of
                        the interactive gaming session through a player interaction area that
                         includes a betting interface having one or more buttons that upon actuation
                         place a bet having a betting value that is then deducted from the credit;
        an electronic collusion detection module, under the control of one or more processors,
               configured to detect collusion violations by, at least in part, determining the
                locations of each of the plurality of player terminals and evaluating one or more
                rules in view of the locations of the plurality of player terminals to determine whether
                each of the plurality of player terminals can participate in the interactive gaming
                session;
        wherein the plurality of player terminals or the host computer system collect snapshots of
                state information of the interactive gaming session during the course of the
                interactive gaming session; and
        wherein the snapshots of the interactive gaming session are submitted to the collusion
               detection module for analysis to detect at least action variability, and upon
                                                    2

                 completion of the analysis the winnings from the interactive gaming session are
                 distributed by adding to the credit associated with one or more of the plurality of
                 players when no collusion or automated play is detected based on the analysis.
[0008]       The present invention also provides a system facilitating interactive gaming among a
plurality of players, the system comprising:
         a host computer system to engage the plurality of players in an interactive gaming session
                 of at least one interactive game,
         a plurality of player terminals communicably coupled to the host computer system via a
                 network and configured to engage the plurality of players in head to head play
                 within the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system,
                 wherein at least one of the plurality of player terminals is a mobile computing device
                          supporting only one of the plurality of players and having a means for
                          connecting the mobile computing device to the host computer system via the
                          network;
                 wherein the host computer system causes the location of each of the plurality of
                          player terminals to be identified;
                 wherein each of the plurality of player terminals include a means for depicting action
                          from the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system;
                 wherein each of the plurality of player terminals include a means for receiving
                          monetary value and upon receiving the monetary value use a processor to
                          generate a credit for one of the plurality of players playing on that player
                          terminal; and
                 wherein the players interact with the interactive gaming session during the course of
                          the interactive gaming session through a player interaction area that
                          includes a betting interface having a means for placing a bet having a
                          betting value that is then deducted from the credit;
         an electronic collusion detection module, under the control of one or more processors,
                 wherein the electronic collusion measures are configured to detect collusion
                 violations by, at least in part, determining the locations of each of the plurality of
                 player terminals and evaluating one or more rules in view of the locations of the
                 plurality of player terminals to determine whether each of the plurality of player
                 terminals can participate in the interactive gaming session;
         wherein the plurality of player terminals or the host computer system collect snapshots of
                 state information of the interactive gaming session during the course of the
                 interactive gaming session; and
                                                     3

        wherein the snapshots of the interactive gaming session are submitted to the collusion
                detection module for analysis to detect at least action variability, and upon
                 completion of the analysis the winnings from the interactive gaming session are
                distributed by adding to the credit associated with one or more of the plurality of
                 players when no collusion or automated play is detected based on the analysis.
[0009]      The present invention also provides a method of operating an interactive gaming
platform having a host computer system to engage a plurality of players in an interactive gaming
session of at least one interactive game, the method comprising:
        connecting a plurality of player terminals to the host computer system via a network to
                 engage the plurality of players in head to head play within the interactive gaming
                 session operated by the host computer system,
                wherein at least one of the plurality of player terminals is a mobile computing device
                          supporting only one of the plurality of players;
        identifying the location of each of the plurality of player terminals;
        receiving a monetary value via at least some of the plurality of player terminals;
        upon receiving the monetary value, using a processor to generate a credit for one of the
                 plurality of players playing on that player terminal;
        depicting action from the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system
                 on displays of any of the plurality of player terminals in the interactive gaming
                 session;
        allowing players to interact with the interactive gaming session during the course of the
                 interactive gaming session through a player interaction area on the plurality of
                 player terminals via a betting interface allowing each of the players to place a bet
                 having a betting value that is then deducted from the credit;
        monitoring, using an electronic collusion detection module, under the control of one or
                 more processors, collusion violations by, at least in part, determining the locations
                 of each of the plurality of player terminals and evaluating one or more rules in view
                 of the locations of each of the plurality of player terminals to determine whether
                 each of the plurality of player terminals can participate in the interactive gaming
                 session;
        collecting snapshots of the interactive gaming session during the course of the interactive
                 gaming session;
        submitting the snapshots to the collusion detection module for analysis to detect at least
                 action variability, and
                                                    4

         distributing, upon completion of the analysis by the collusion detection module, the
                  winnings from the interactive gaming session by adding to the credit associated with
                  one or more of the plurality of players when no collusion or automated play is
                  detected based on the analysis.
                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]       A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the present technology may be
realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the drawings wherein like
reference numerals are used throughout the several drawings to refer to similar components.
Further, various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference
label with a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the
first reference label is used in the specification, the description is applicable to any one of the
similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference
label.
[0011]        Embodiments of the present technology will be described and explained through the
use of the accompanying drawings as follows.
[0012]        Fig. 1 illustrates an exemplary interactive gaming system according to some
embodiments of the present technology.
[0013]        Fig. 2 illustrates graphically one example of how funds flow in an interactive gaming
system, such as the system of Fig. 1, according to various embodiments of the present
technology.
[0014]        Fig. 3 illustrates an exemplary processing environment for an interactive gaming
system according to one or more embodiments of the present technology.
[0015]        Fig. 4 illustrates an example of various components that may be used within a player
terminal in accordance with some embodiments of the present technology.
[0016]        Fig. 5 illustrates an example of a set of operations for enforcing a collusion avoidance
policy on a player terminal in accordance with various embodiments of the present technology.
[0017]        Fig. 6 illustrates an example of a set of operations for detecting automated play on a
player terminal in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present technology.
[0018]        Fig. 7 illustrates an example of a set of operations for setting and updating a gaming
session payout on a player terminal in accordance with some embodiments of the present
technology.
[0019]        Fig. 8 illustrates an example of a set of operations for determining if network connection
is sufficient for allowing a gaming session according to various embodiments of the present
technology.
                                                    5

[0020]      Fig. 9 illustrates an example of a player terminal according to one or more
embodiments of the present technology.
[0021]      Fig. 10 illustrates an example of a player terminal according to some embodiments of
the present technology.
[0022]      Fig. 11 illustrates an example of a set of operations for selecting game play within a
gaming session according to various embodiments of the present technology.
[0023]      Fig. 12 illustrates an example of a set of operations for operating an interactive game
according to one or more embodiments of the present technology.
[0024]      Fig. 13 illustrates an example of a computing platform that may be used in accordance
with some embodiments of the present technology.
[0025]      The drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. Similarly, some components
and/or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the
purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments of the present technology. Moreover, while
the technology is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms, specific embodiments
have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The
intention, however, is not to limit the technology to the particular embodiments described. On the
contrary, the technology is intended to cover all modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling
within the scope of the technology as defined by the appended claims.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0026]      Various embodiments of the present technology provide networked, interactive gaming.
According to some embodiments of the technology, players may engage in interactive games that
require at least one player decision after the game has begun. Interactive games can include
games of skill, games of chance and/or hybrid games that mix games of chance and games of
skill. Examples of interactive games include, but are not limited to, poker, blackjack, video and
arcade games, virtual reality games, eSports, live dealer, pinball, games of chance with bonus
rounds that include games of skill, and others. The interactive games can include head-to-head
games where one player or team of players compete directly against another player or team of
players. In some embodiments, the interactive game may be a single player game where the is
trying to meet various objectives (e.g., score a desired number of points, reach a certain level,
complete a screen within a limited time frame, and the like).
[0027]      With respect to poker, for example, a player must decide whether to bet, raise, call, or
fold after having seen his cards and the action of other players. With respect to blackjack, a player
must decide whether to hit, stand, split, double down, or surrender after having seen his cards and
the dealer's up card. With respect to video games, player interactions are needed throughout the
game to make decisions to navigate obstacles, fire weapons, and the like depending on the
                                                 6

particular video game. Other games can have similar actions during the progress of the game.
These types of player decisions are in direct contrast with slot machines in which players merely
decide to initiate a game, after which no player decision is made until the conclusion of the game.
In other words, no intermediate decisions are made in non-interactive games.
[0028]      "Networked" gaming allows players to participate from different locations, although in
some embodiments, players may play from a common location via a local network. The game,
however, is typically administered by a processor separate from a player's terminal. By allowing
participation from a large number of locations simultaneously, the quality and variety of the gaming
opportunity is enhanced through increased demand.            "Interactive games," unlike, for example,
slots, require at least one player decision after the game has begun.
[0029]      Some embodiments of the technology also provide players the opportunity to
participate in networked gaming anonymously.          Unlike, for example, Internet poker, in which a
player must disclose at least some personal information to create a player account, embodiments
of the present technology allow players to enter a game without disclosing any personal
information. While some embodiments provide loyalty programs to encourage longer sessions,
return customers, and the like, players are not required to participate in loyalty programs. Players
may simply deposit funds into a player terminal and enter a game.             Hence, no disclosure of
personal information is required to participate in games according to embodiments of the present
technology.
[0030]       Further, according to various embodiments, player terminals can be located at licensed
gaming locations. Licensed gaming locations can include any state or, in the future, federal land
whereby a player can play on a personal computing device through a network with a licensed
operator.    Licensing may be governed by the Nevada Gaming Control, tribal council, and/or a
regulatory agency setup within a state. In the future, the federal government may permit federal
licenses for certain operators. For example, if Caesars Entertainment is licensed in Nevada and
someone is playing on their system/networked servers that would be permitted and considered a
licensed jurisdiction. Some states, jurisdictions or specific areas (e.g., schools, churches, etc.)
may still have bans on gambling in those locations. As such, some embodiments of the present
technology may use various location deriving techniques (e.g., geolocation, GPS signals, IP
addresses, and others) to determine if the player terminals that are mobile are in a banned location
or in a location where gambling would be permitted.
[0031]      This also contrasts with traditional Internet poker and the like, wherein player terminals
(e.g., personal computers, table tops, laptops, tablets, smartphones, and the like) may be located
anywhere. Hence, according to some embodiments of the technology, a player may engage in
these games without fear of running afoul of gambling laws. While locations may include casinos,
                                                   7

restaurants, bars, race tracks, hotels (including individual hotel rooms), and the like, players are
secure in the fact that the location is authorized to provide the gaming opportunity.
[0032]       Further still, in some embodiments, efforts are made to protect players from unsavory
activities that have prevented the emergence of such gaming opportunities heretofore.              For
example, collusion and other forms of cheating are addressed through player terminal placement,
privacy features, electronic monitoring, and/or the like. Hence, players are provided an enhanced
gaming opportunity, even with respect to "live" games in which cheating is often hard to detect,
since a casino does not see every player's hole cards, players are able to "mark" cards since the
cards are physically handled, and colluding players can use sophisticated forms of signaling that
go unnoticed by the dealer, floor personnel, or the "eye in the sky."         In some embodiments,
payouts may be withheld for a period of time (e.g., 24 or 48 hours) to allow for a review of the
game play by various hardware and/or software systems that can be used to detect colluding
players or other types of cheating.
[0033]       In some embodiments, the player terminals will need to display various information
about the gaming session the player is about to enter. This information can include various rules,
limitations and payouts. Since some player terminals may be able to support different games,
variable payback, varying skill levels, and multiple profit models (e.g., rake, fixed fee, etc.), the
player terminal can display this type of information clearly to the user.
[0034]       Players also may compete for enhanced prizes over and above the current "pot." For
example, in poker, players may be given bonus jackpots for hitting a certain, usually rare, hand
(e.g., a Royal Flush). Also, players may receive a "consolation prize" in the form of a "bad beat"
jackpot (e.g., having an aces full house beaten by four of a kind or better). These jackpots may be
progressive and could grow to be much more valuable than the contested pot.              In blackjack,
players can receive bonuses for hitting, for example, an ace and jack of spades blackjack. In
some embodiments, bonus rounds may be added with different interactive games (e.g., a game of
skill or a game of chance). The bonus round games may be selected by the player before or after
the main gaming session. In other embodiments, the bonus round may be randomly selected by
the player terminal, the host computing system, or a gaming platform. Still yet, the bonus round
may only be presented to players that win the main gaming session or the bonus round may be
randomly presented. These and other features and enhancements will be described more fully in
the ensuing detailed description.
[0035]       In the following description, for the purposes of explanation, numerous specific details
are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present
technology. It will be apparent, however, to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present
technology may be practiced without some of these specific details.          While, for convenience,
                                                   8

embodiments of the present technology are described with reference to interactive gaming on
various devices, embodiments of the present technology are equally applicable to various other
cloud-based gaming technologies.
[0036]       The techniques introduced here can be embodied as special-purpose hardware (e.g.,
circuitry), as programmable circuitry appropriately programmed with software and/or firmware, or
as a combination of special-purpose and programmable circuitry.           Hence, embodiments may
include a machine-readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to
program a computer (or other electronic devices) to perform a process. The machine-readable
medium may include, but is not limited to, floppy diskettes, optical discs, compact disc read-only
memories (CD-ROMs), magneto-optical discs, ROMs, random access memories (RAMs), erasable
programmable read-only memories (EPROMs), electrically erasable programmable read-only
memories (EEPROMs), magnetic or optical cards, flash memory, or other type of media/machine
readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.
[0037]       The phrases "in some embodiments," "according to some embodiments," "in the
embodiments shown," "in other embodiments," and the like generally mean the particular feature,
structure, or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one implementation of the
present technology, and may be included in more than one implementation.           In addition, such
phrases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiments or different embodiments.
[0038]       Attention is directed to Fig. 1, which illustrates an exemplary gaming network 100
according to embodiments of the technology. The gaming network 100 includes a host computer
system 102 and a communications network 104 through which a plurality of gaming locations 106
communicate with the host computer system 102.           It should be appreciated that the gaming
network 100 is merely exemplary of a number of possible gaming network configurations
according to embodiments of the present technology. Further, although the ensuing description
will relate to a poker gaming network, this is not a requirement.      Embodiments of the present
technology may relate to many other types and varieties of games.
[0039]       This exemplary host computer system 102 includes an internal network 108, a web
server 110, a game server 112, a game storage arrangement 114, a player storage arrangement
116, and an administrator computing device 118.           In this specific embodiment, the various
components of the host computer system 102 are co-located; in other embodiments, the
components may be distributed geographically. As those skilled in the art will appreciate, other
exemplary host computer systems according to embodiments of the technology may include
different components than those illustrated and described herein.
[0040]       Each gaming location 106 may include a local server 120 and one or more player
terminals 122. In some embodiments, the local server 120 may simply facilitate communication
                                                 9

between the player terminals 122 and the host computer system 102. In other embodiments, the
local server 120 administers the games, tracks players for loyalty purposes, manages player
deposits, and/or the like.    In some embodiments, there may be more than 1 server at these
locations handling different aspects of the gaming system.      For example, there may be servers
dedicated to accounting and money management, servers dedicated for detecting collusion and/or
other types of cheating (e.g., automated play), servers managing the loyalty/rewards systems, and
the like.
[0041]      The various servers, networks, computing devices, and storage arrangements may be
any of a variety of well-known devices. For example, in some embodiments, the communications
network 104 is the Internet, the servers 110, 112, 120 are standard products offered, for example,
by Dell Corp., the storage arrangements 114, 116 are typical optical, magnetic, solid state, or
similar mass storage devices, and the administrator computing device 118 is a typical desktop
computer. The player terminals 122 will be described in greater detail below.
[0042]      According to embodiments of the technology, the gaming locations 106 are licensed
gaming locations, such as casinos, race tracks, licensed networks that comply with state or federal
regulations, or the like. In some embodiments, the gaming locations 106 are gas stations, hotels,
stores, airports, or other locations at which gaming is legal. The gaming locations 106 specifically
exclude locations where gaming is not legal. In accordance with various embodiments, gaming
locations need not be attended. As such, players may be able to enter and exit games, deposit
and receive money, interact with the player's terminal, and the like, without the assistance of an
attendant at the gaming location.
[0043]      The player terminals 122 at the gaming locations 106 may be in wired or wireless
communication with the local server 120.         In accordance with various embodiments, player
terminals 122 can include customized electronic devices built for interactive game play. In some
embodiments, the player terminals 122 can include personal computing devices running
customized software (e.g., a gaming application running on a mobile device such as a mobile
phone or tablet). It should be appreciated that the terminals may be wirelessly connected directly
to the host computer system 102 via the communications network 104.            Other examples are
possible. In some embodiments, hotel guests at casino/hotels may "check out" player terminals
122 and engage in gaming from their hotel rooms. In other embodiments, player terminals 122 are
in every room in a hotel and players may engage in gaming using the terminals without ever
leaving their rooms.
[0044]      As will be described in greater detail below, in some embodiments, players can
anonymously engage in games via the gaming network 100. That is, a player may insert cash into
a terminal or otherwise deposit monetary value (e.g., via a credit card, PayPal@, digital currency
                                                 10

transfer, etc.), select a game, and begin playing without creating a user account.         This is a
significant difference between embodiments of the present technology and previously-known
gaming networks, such as Internet poker in which players must create user accounts.
[0045]       As will be described in greater detail hereinafter, players may engage in interactive
games from any location.         For example, players at terminal 122-21 and 122-25 from gaming
location 106-2 may be involved in the same poker game as players using terminals 122-53 and
122-56 from the gaming location 106-5. The host computer system 102 administers the game and
distributes information about the action of the game to appropriate player terminals. Cards are
dealt to players in the game, although players are only able to view their own cards and any
community cards. Betting proceeds from one player to the next, and the host computer system
102 informs each player of the action prior to his turn.
[0046]       Of course, all players in a particular game may be playing from the same location. The
players may be playing next to one another at a common bank of machines or they may be
distributed throughout the gaming location (e.g., some in their hotel rooms, some on one floor of a
casino, and the remainder on another floor of the casino). Still yet, some players may be remotely
located and playing via a network connection with players in a fixed gaming location. Other player
may be playing from their homes, parks, restaurants, bars, and other locations.      Many examples
are possible.
[0047]       It is important to note, however, that gaming locations and the gaming network operator
may take special steps to ensure players are not the victim of collusion or other forms of cheating.
For example, if two players playing from the same location are within eyesight of each other's
terminals, then they may be able to see each other's hole cards or signal each other their holding.
This form of collusion provides these players with a significant advantage over other players in the
game. Similarly, an individual player may be the innocent victim of another player who can see his
hole cards or other position within a game without his knowledge. Hence, the gaming location may
employ any of a number of measures to prevent such cheating.
[0048]       In some embodiments, when a player enters a game from a specific terminal at a
gaming location, other terminals within proximity (e.g., three rows of machines, 100 feet, the same
floor of the casino, etc.) of the player's terminal may be locked out of the game the player entered.
Of course, nothing would prevent two players seated at terminals next to one another from playing
in different games. Similarly, wireless terminals may have features that allow them to know when
they are in proximity of one another and perform similar lockouts. For example, these features can
include, in some embodiments, one or more of proximity sensors, IP address monitoring and
tracing, reporting of GPS locations, beacon-based technology, and the like. As another example,
player terminals may be distributed and fixed within a gaming location. Various mapping
                                                    11

technology can be used to create location maps that can be used as part of the proximity
detection.
[0049]       With respect to an individual player who has another player looking over his shoulder to
see his hole cards, player terminals may have a "hole card reveal" button or the like that allows
players to quickly view their hole cards, whereas the cards are otherwise "face down" on the
terminal display. While not a guarantee that other players cannot see his cards, a player using
such a feature is better able to protect his hand. Shielding on the terminal and/or smaller displays
or other features may be used to enhance a player's ability to protect his hand.
[0050]       Despite all efforts to minimize cheating through visual means, players may nevertheless
collude by communicating with one another via phone calls, texting, or the like. Such collusion
may be dealt with in any of a variety of ways by various embodiments of the present technology.
For example, player terminals or the gaming location in general may employ electronic
countermeasures that disrupt cell phone signals. As one example, when the player terminals are
personal computing devices (e.g., a smartphone or a tablet), the application running the gaming
software may completely deactivate one or more features of the smartphone or tablet such as
cellular service, texting, Internet, etc. Still yet, some embodiments of the gaming software may
identify the mobile number associated with the mobile device. As such, any incoming call when a
game is in session may use the caller ID to block (or securely withhold) calls or text messages
from other players in the common gaming session.
[0051]       In some embodiments, the gaming network operator may employ collusion detection
software that monitors player action. Since the host computer system 102 knows all players' cards
or activity within the gaming session, unusual action by a player may trigger a flag, after which the
player's action is given higher scrutiny. Players suspected of colluding may be immediately barred
from a game and their deposits held pending resolution.
[0052]       Having generally described a gaming network 100 according to embodiments of the
technology, attention is directed to Fig. 2, which provides greater detail relating to the flow of funds
in such a network.       According to this example, players 202 engage in gaming using player
terminals 204. The players 202 may insert value (e.g., cash, points, credits, etc.) into the terminals
204 to thereby engage in the games offered by the terminals. When a player 202-1 is ready to
cash out of a game, the terminal 204-1 is configured to dispense value back to the player 202-1.
[0053]       Excess value travels from the player terminals 204 to a local depository 206 and/or vice
versa. In some cases, the value moves electronically, for example, if the value is measured in
points or credits. In others cases, for example, if the value is in the form of paper currency and/or
coin, value is physically moved from the local depository 206 to the player terminals 204 ("terminal
fills") and vice versa. Occasionally, player cash outs are handled from the local depository 206
                                                   12

directly to the player. In one such example, a player 202-5 is due a higher cash out than the
terminal 204-5 can provide.      The player 202-5 may have experienced an exceptional winning
session, the gaming location may require the player 202-5 to complete tax forms for IRS reporting,
the player 202-5 may have won a specialty jackpot that is paid from the local depository 206, the
player terminal 204-5 may be configured to only print "tickets" which players 202 redeem for cash
at a cashier's cage, credit a player's loyalty card or bank card, and/or the like. Many other such
examples exist.
[0054]       In some examples, value is paid from a local depository 206 to a central depository 208
and vice versa.      As in the immediately-previous discussion, the central depository 208 may
occasionally pay value directly to a player 202-1.
[0055]       In a specific embodiment, the local depository 206 is a licensed gaming location and
the central depository 208 is the operator of the gaming network 100. The operator enlists the
gaming location to house terminals in return for a portion of the revenue generated by the network.
The compensation to the gaming location may be in proportion to the revenues generated at the
gaming location.     For example, if the gaming network operator provides interactive poker, each
contested pot may be "raked" a certain percentage (e.g., 3% to a maximum of $4).         Hence, the
winning player's pot may be light a $4 rake. The gaming locations from which the players are
engaged in the game may keep $2 of the $4, while the remainder is remitted to the operator.
Because players may engage in the same poker game from different locations, occasional
revenue balancing may be required to compensate gaming locations at which players have
winnings in excess of deposits. Likewise, locations at which players lose more over a period of
time provide the excess to the operator for distribution to the locations with the higher wins. In
some embodiments, large payouts may be made by the manufacturer, the casino, or some other
third party.    For example, mega jackpots/progressives that are pooled can get paid by the
manufactures in many instances.
[0056]       Individual gaming locations and/or the operator of the gaming network may offer
promotions to increase player interest.       For example, as will be described in greater detail
hereinafter, gaming locations may offer "high hand" jackpots. Such jackpots are paid to players for
making particular high hands such as four aces, a royal flush, or the like. The jackpot may be reset
to a starting value (e.g., $100 for four aces) and increase in proportion to revenues at the gaming
locations until the high hand is again hit. Different gaming locations may have different high hand
jackpot amounts. In fact, the high hand may be game specific, i.e., there may be one high hand
jackpot for four aces in all Texas Hold'em games and a different four aces high hand jackpot for 7
card Stud games. Jackpots also may be specific to various game limits. High hand jackpots may
be paid to players directly from the local depository 206.
                                                  13

[0057]       The gaming network operator also may offer specialty jackpots, such as "bad beat"
jackpots, in which players who have a high value hand beaten may share (e.g., four-of-a-kind
beaten by a higher hand).        As with the high hand jackpots, bad beat jackpots may reset to a
nominal value after being hit and increase as a function of revenue. The revenue base for a bad
beat jackpot offered by the gaming network operator may be substantially larger than the revenue
base for locally-offered high hand jackpots, in which case, the bad beat jackpot may grow at a
faster rate. As with the high hand jackpots, bad beat jackpots may be game and limit specific.
[0058]       Of course, the preceding discussion should not be understood to limit bad beat jackpots
to being offered by the gaming network operator or high hand jackpots to being offered by the local
gaming location. Further, other types and varieties of jackpots may be offered at any level of the
network.
[0059]       Attention is directed to Fig. 3, which illustrates an exemplary functional diagram 300 of
the host computer system 102. The functional diagram 300 depicts several program modules as
well as basic computer functions. For example, the 1/0 module 302 handles input to and output
from a processing environment and/or the communications network 104. The graphics module
304 provides control over the graphics displayed on player terminals and/or administrative
computers. The terminal control module 306 provides the capability of the host computer system
102 to interact with and/or control a player terminal 122.        The game storage arrangement 308
houses software or other computer-executable code that controls the games offered.
[0060]       A number of processing environments are also included in some embodiments.            For
example, a game processor 310 controls one or more interactive games using the computer
executable code from the game storage arrangement 308. A tournament processor 312 performs
a similar function for player tournaments. A loyalty tracker 314 keeps up with the play of registered
players to thereby reward players for the amount of time they spend playing.            An accounting
processor 316 controls the flow of money and/or other forms of value within the network.            A
collusion detection processor 318 monitors such things as unusual action taken by a specific
player, frequent occurrences of the same players playing together in the same games, and the
like. A software test environment 320 allows new games and/or processes to be tested in an
environment that does not affect ongoing operations. A waiting list queue 322 allows players to
wait in line for a specific game or table. An evaluation module 324 allows for the monitoring of the
communication latency between the plurality of player terminals and the host computer system.
[0061]       Those skilled in the art will appreciate that this is but one of many possible exemplary
functional diagrams for a gaming network according to embodiments of the technology.
[0062]       Fig. 4 illustrates an example of various components that may be used within a player
terminal in accordance with some embodiments of the present technology. As shown in Fig. 4,
                                                   14

player terminals 122 may include memory 402 (e.g., volatile memory and/or nonvolatile memory),
processor(s) 404, power supply 406 (e.g., battery), for executing processing instructions, and
operating system 408. Additional components may include data storage component 410 (e.g.,
hard drive, flash memory, memory card, etc.), one or more network interfaces (e.g., Bluetooth@
Interface 412; and Network Communication Interface 414, which enables the player terminal to
communicate by transmitting and receiving wireless signals using licensed, semi-licensed or
unlicensed spectrums over a telecommunications network), audio interface 416, microphone 418,
display 420, keypad or keyboard 422, SIM card 424, other input and/or output interfaces 426, and
gaming module 428. The various components of a mobile device may be interconnected via a bus.
[0063]       Memory 402 can be any device, mechanism, or populated data structure used for
storing information.    In accordance with some embodiments of the present technology, memory
402 can encompass any type of, but is not limited to, volatile memory, nonvolatile memory and
dynamic memory. For example, memory 402 can be random access memory, memory storage
devices, optical memory devices, media magnetic media, floppy disks, magnetic tapes, hard
drives, SDRAM, RDRAM, DDR RAM, erasable programmable read-only memories (EPROMs),
electrically erasable programmable read-only memories (EEPROMs), compact disks, DVDs,
and/or the like. In accordance with some embodiments, memory 402 may include one or more
disk drives, flash drives, one or more databases, one or more tables, one or more files, local cache
memories, processor cache memories, relational databases, flat databases, and/or the like.           In
addition, those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate many additional devices and techniques for
storing information which can be used as memory 402.
[0064]       Memory 402 may be used to store instructions for running one or more applications or
modules on processor(s) 404.           For example, memory 402 could be used in one or more
embodiments to house all or some of the instructions needed to execute the functionality of the
various system components and/or modules. Processor(s) 404 are the main processors of player
terminal    122 which may include          application processors,    baseband processors, various
coprocessors, and other dedicated processors for operating player terminal 122. For example, an
application processor can provide the processing power to support software applications, memory
management,      graphics processing, and multimedia.            An application processor may be
communicably coupled with memory 402 and configured to run the operating system 408, the user
interface, and the applications stored on memory 402 or data storage component 410.                  A
baseband processor may be configured to perform signal processing and implement/manage real
time radio transmission operations of a player terminal (e.g., a mobile device). These processors,
along with the other components, may be powered by power supply 406.                  The volatile and
nonvolatile memories found in various embodiments may include storage media for storing
                                                    15

information such as processor-readable instructions, data structures, program modules, or other
data.    Some examples of information that may be stored include basic input/output systems
(BIOS), operating systems, and applications.
[0065]       Operating system 408 can also provide common services for software applications
running on processor(s) 404. According to the embodiments shown in Fig. 4, gaming module 428
can include identification module 430, policy enforcement module 432, payout adjustment module
434, skill level adjustment module 436, accounting module 438, and state recordation module 440.
Each of these modules can be embodied as special-purpose hardware (e.g., one or more ASICS,
PLDs, FPGAs, or the like), or as programmable circuitry (e.g., one or more microprocessors,
microcontrollers, or the like) appropriately programmed with software and/or firmware, or as a
combination of special purpose hardware and programmable circuitry. Other embodiments of the
present technology may include some, all, or none of these modules and components along with
other modules, applications, and/or components. Still yet, some embodiments may incorporate
two or more of these modules and components into a single module and/or associate a portion of
the functionality of one or more of these modules with a different module. For example, in one
embodiment, identification module 430 and policy enforcement module 432 can be combined into
a single module for identifying and enforcing various policies on a player terminal.
[0066]       Identification module 430 can be used to gather information about the player terminal,
current and/or past gaming sessions, player information, specific hardware and software
configurations of the player terminal, GPS coordinates, associated telephone numbers, IP
addresses, e-mail addresses, user identifiers, international mobile station equipment identity
(IMEI), mobile equipment identifiers (MEID), integrated circuit card identifiers (ICCID),      part
identifiers, software identifiers, current gaming session identifiers, identification of any nearby
player terminals, and the like. This information can be used in a variety of ways, including by
policy enforcement module 432 which can set customized collusion avoidance policies that can, in
some embodiments, be dynamically set (e.g., based on location, current gaming session, etc.).
[0067]       Payout adjustment module 434 can be used to dynamically adjust the payout of a
gaming session. For example, there may be minimum payout requirements (e.g., between 85%
and 98%) that are required to be met over a period of time (e.g., daily, weekly, monthly, and
yearly). As such, the payout module can ensure those minimum requirements are met. Payout
adjustment module 434 may also be able to adjust the payout based on the profit model being
used for a particular gaming session. For example, some games may take a fee or percentage off
the top, a rake (e.g., 1% to 15%, fifty cents, one dollar, etc.) of the money at play. As another
example, the games may use a pooled liquidity model for jackpots where the money is derived
from multiple sources (e.g., multiple casinos).       As such, the percentage may be different
                                                16

depending on the game play location or other factor. Still yet, payout adjustment module 434 may
be connected to a casino or other rewards system and grant higher payouts based on various
reward models (e.g., number of visits, average bet, total money bet, holiday/birthday month, gift,
etc.).
[0068]      Skill level adjustment module 436 can be used to adjust playing parameters within the
game.     Examples of playing parameters can include, but are not limited to, number of lives,
amount of time to complete an objective, game speed, amount of ammo, firing rates, items caught,
items chosen, number of automated opponents, automated opponent strengths, and the like. The
higher the skill level set by skill level adjustment module 436, the higher the payout. Accounting
module 438 can be used to interface with various existing backend accounting systems and other
reporting and record keeping systems (e.g., IRS reporting systems).            In some embodiments,
accounting module 438 may be used to implement procedures that are designed to detect and
prevent transactions that may be associated with money laundering, fraud and other criminal
activities and to ensure compliance with all federal laws related to money laundering.
[0069]      State recordation module 440 can be used to capture the state of the gaming session.
This can include a variety of game states including, but not limited to, wager, payout levels, skill
level settings, and others. The state of the gaming session can be repeatedly captured so that in
the event of a communication failure, terminal fault, or other issue that would prevent the gaming
session from being completed a record of the current state can be reconstructed. For example, in
some embodiments, the state may be captured at least every second. In other embodiments, the
state may be captured more or less quickly depending on game dynamics. The state captured by
state recordation module 440 may also be used (possibly with state information from other player
terminals of the same gaming session) by a collusion avoidance module to determine if any
collusion is occurring. In some embodiments, the state information captured by state recordation
module 440 can be used to generate various gaming analytics. In some embodiments, the host
computer (or gaming platform) may capture the snapshots of the state information directly.
[0070]      State recordation module 440 may store the state information in database for regulatory
compliance, analytics, or other purpose. For example, in some embodiments, all the game play
within a period of time (e.g., a five year period, a two year period, a year, a month, a week, a day,
etc.) could be recorded and stored in the database. In other embodiments, a limited number of
gaming sessions could be recorded (e.g., last one hundred, last thirty, etc.).         Still yet, some
embodiments of state recordation module 440 may only record (or record for longer period of time)
games that have betting above a set threshold (e.g., $500, $1000, etc.).
[0071]      The state information recorded by state recordation module may be a direct copy of the
game play or only information sufficient to reproduce the game play.            For example, in some
                                                  17

embodiments, the state information may include various gaming parameters (e.g., ammo amounts,
number of lives, level, etc.), gaming session identifier, date and time the interactive gaming
session is opened or terminated, the date and time the interactive gaming session is logged in to
or is logged out of by various player terminals, the physical location, by state or foreign jurisdiction,
of the authorized player while logged in to the interactive gaming account, and/or other types of
information.
[0072]       In some embodiments, the player terminals can provide for social media, chatting and
other communication channels. For example, some embodiments, may have interfaces that allow
for third party access through another gateway like Facebook@ or other social media.               Some
embodiments of the player terminals may allow for picture in picture or multiple screens.             For
example, players may be able to play an interactive game via one screen or video channel and in
the second screen or video channel being displayed in the picture in picture (PIP) thereby allowing
players to play more than one at a time. The additional screens or video channel, for example,
could be used to watch sports, fantasy sports betting, ordering drinks or food, and the like. In
some embodiments, additional screens may be present to present various promotions such as
ticket sells for shows, restaurant deals, future room bookings, room upgrades, and the like.
[0073]       Some embodiments of the player terminals may also include external video outputs that
allow for display of the game by others. For example, in various tournament play (e.g., eSports),
the external video outputs may allow others to watch the game play. In various embodiments, the
player terminals may support virtual reality interfaces, hologram generation systems, and other
visualizations system for the gaming. The player terminals, in some embodiments, can include
various sensors to detect gestures that can be interpreted as controls for betting, controlling
gaming action, ordering drinks, etc.
[0074]       Fig. 5 illustrates an example of a set of operations 500 for enforcing a collusion
avoidance policy on a player terminal in accordance with various embodiments of the present
technology. Various embodiments of the present technology allow for heterogeneous player
terminals that can be at either fixed locations or mobile (i.e., able to move to different locations).
Since the player terminals may have different capabilities and may even be owned and operated
by a player (e.g., a tablet), each player terminal may need different and/or dynamically changing
collusion avoidance policies.     For example, a player terminal that is mobile may be able to be
positioned nearby (e.g., within 25 feet) of a second player terminal that is stationary. As such, the
collusion avoidance policies may need to be dynamically updated so that those player terminals
may not participate in the same gaming session.         In some instances, for example in various
eSports events and other team based gaming session, the collusion avoidance policies may allow
multiple players to collude. As such, this type of dynamic policy adjustment can allow, in some
                                                   18

embodiments, the collusion detection and enforcement to be appropriately set or even completely
disengaged.
[0075]       As illustrated in Fig. 5, for example, collection operation 510 determines the player
terminal information.       Player terminal information can include information regarding specific
hardware and software configurations of the player terminal.        In some embodiments, the player
terminal information can include player information collected via the player terminal.                   In
accordance with various embodiments, and depending on the type of player terminal, collecting
the player terminal information can be done in a variety of ways. For example, the player terminal
information could be automatically collected by accessing various sensors, components, operating
systems, and/or software associated with the player terminal.        In some embodiments, the player
terminal location maybe monitored over long periods of time and predictive analytics or learning
algorithms can be used to generate a likely current location for the player based on historical
information.
[0076]       In some embodiments, the player terminal information could include GPS coordinates,
telephone numbers, IP addresses, e-mail addresses, user identifiers, international mobile station
equipment identity (IMEI), mobile equipment identifiers (MEID), integrated circuit card identifiers
(ICCID), part identifiers, software identifiers, current gaming session identifiers, identification of any
nearby player terminals, and the like. As another example, management software or gaming
software loaded on the player terminal may send out or monitor for beacon signals (e.g., using
Bluetooth@ or other short range communication protocols) that can be received or transmitted by
monitoring stations located at various physical locations (e.g., at a casino, airport, etc.).
[0077]       The player terminal information can be reported, during reporting operation 520, to a
collusion detection module. The collusion detection module may be part of the player terminal or
separate from the player terminal.       Reporting operation 520 may stream the information to the
collusion detection module or send the information in batches. As the player terminal information
changes, the changes can be detected and then sent to the collusion detection module. This may
be particularly helpful in reducing traffic between the player terminal and a separate collusion
module. The collusion detection module can then process the player terminal information along
with other information such as, for example, collusion rules to develop a collusion avoidance
policy. Once the player terminal information is received during receiving operation 530, the player
terminal can enforce the collusion avoidance policy on the player terminal during enforcement
operation 540.
[0078]       Fig. 6 illustrates an example of a set of operations 600 for detecting automated play on
a player terminal in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present technology. As
illustrated in Fig. 6, monitoring operation 610 can monitor player action within a gaming session.
                                                    19

Using the player action, determination operation 620 determines action variability. For example,
the variability in responding to various game play situations, the player's logic in responding to
various game play situations, the player's strategy, the player's response time for responding to
various game play situations, the player's betting patterns, and/or other information derivable from
monitoring player actions. In some embodiments, determination operation 620 may also monitor
various biometrics of the player or record the player with a camera.
[0079]      Using the action variability, determination operation 630 can determine if a player
terminal is using automated play during the gaming session. This may be a score, a percentile,
confidence level, a range, or other indicator that automated play is likely occurring.              If
determination operation 630 determines that automated play is occurring (or likely occurring), then
determination operation 630 branches to enforcement operation 640.              During enforcement
operation 640, the collusion avoidance policy can be enforced and may include a variety of actions
including, but not limited to holding the game, terminating gaming sessions, holding payouts
subject to further review, initiating review of other available data (e.g., from video surveillance
systems), creating entries in a user tracking system and the like. The collusion avoidance policy
may have variable enforcement depending on the confidence or likelihood of the automated play,
the betting amount, the identity of the player, the number of auto play triggers for the identified
player, and the like. Such features may be manually engaged or disengaged by the operators or
be associated with a set of rules that can allow the system to automatically engage or disengage
the feature in some embodiments.
[0080]      If determination operation 630 determines that automated play is not occurring (or not
likely occurring), then determination operation 630 branches to allowance operation 650, which
allows the game play to continue and returns to monitoring operation 610 where the player action
within a gaming session is monitored. If determination operation 630 flags the play as potentially
automated, then determination operation 630 branches to review operation 660 which can allow
the game to continue with a heightened level of review or elevate the review to other systems or
gaming administrators for review. During this time, the game may be allowed to continue to collect
additional evidence with monitoring operation 610 or a collusion avoidance policy may be enforced
with enforcement operation 640. The collusion avoidance policy may request that an additional
game be played where the gaming action is varied (e.g., speed, difficulty level, etc.) to determine if
automated playing is occurring.
[0081]      Fig. 7 illustrates an example of a set of operations 700 for setting and updating a
gaming session payout on a player terminal in accordance with some embodiments of the present
technology.     As illustrated in Fig. 7, receiving operation 710 receives information regarding a
baseline skill distribution for one or more interactive games (e.g., Pac-Man, Tetris, etc.). This
                                                  20

baseline may be collected offline or via terminals over a period of time. Using the baseline skill
distribution, payout operation 720 sets the initial game payout based on the baseline skill
distribution.    As players play the interactive games, additional live game play statistics can be
received from one or more terminals during playing operation 730. The skill distribution can be
updated based on the additional live game play statistics during update operation 740. Using the
updated skill distribution, determination operation 750 can determine if a game payout modification
is needed.      If determination operation 750 determines that a game payout modification is not
needed, then determination operation 750 can branch to initiation operation 760 to initiate a
gaming session with a set payout. If determination operation 750 determines that a game payout
modification is needed, the determination operation 750 can branch to setting operation 770 where
a fixed payout for a gaming session is updated and set. Once the payout is set, then the gaming
session can be initiated from initiation operation 760.
[0082]        Fig. 8 illustrates an example of a set of operations 800 for determining if network
connection is sufficient for allowing a gaming session according to various embodiments of the
present technology. As illustrated in Fig. 8, receiving operation 810 can receive a request for a
player terminal to enter a gaming session.           Connection operation 820 can determine the
connection information between the player terminal and the host server.             The connection
information may include information such as, but not limited to, upload speeds, download speeds,
connection type (e.g., fiber/cat-5, WiFi, cellular, miracast etc.), and other connection information.
Using the connection information, determination operation 830 can determine whether the gaming
criteria is met. For example, the gaming criteria can include minimum upload speeds, minimum
download speeds, and the like. If determination operation 830 determines the gaming criteria has
been met, then determination operation 830 can branch to initiation operation 840 where the
gaming session can be initiated. If determination operation 830 determines the gaming criteria has
not been met, then determination operation 830 can branch to denial operation 850 where a
gaming session is not initiated and then suggestion operation 860 can be used to suggest an
alternative game based on the connection information.
[0083]        Fig. 9 illustrates an exemplary player terminal 900 according to embodiments of the
technology. Only the most relevant aspects of the user interface portion of the player terminal 900
are illustrated and described herein. It should be apparent that the user interface may be part of a
hand-held player terminal, a free standing player terminal (e.g., a tabletop gaming console, a
dedicated gaming enclosure with electronics supporting the game, etc.), a computing device
configured as a player terminal (e.g., a laptop, mobile phone, tablet, e-reader, etc.), a "set-top"
gaming console, and/or the like. Further, it is not necessary for all elements of the player terminal
illustrated and described herein to be included in the player terminal.
                                                  21

[0084]       The terminal includes a jackpot payout information area 902, a game display area 904,
a player interaction area 906, and a cash and credit interaction area 908. The jackpot payout
information area 902 includes information about the status of jackpot accumulations. The amounts
associated with the various jackpots may increase with time and may be game specific. For
example, if the player terminal provides the possibility to engage in different types of games and
limits, then the jackpot amounts displayed in the jackpot information area may change with
different player game selections.
[0085]       The game display area 904 provides a visual depiction of the game in which the player
is involved. For example, the game display area 904 may show a poker table 910 and players 912
sitting around the table. As players are dealt cards, the cards may appear in front of each player.
As players bet, chips may be displayed in front of the players. At the end of each betting round,
the chips from the round may be scooped into the middle of the table to symbolize the pot for
which the players are competing. As the action proceeds around the table, the next player to act
may be highlighted and that player's terminal may beep, or otherwise alert the player that it is his
turn to act. Community cards may appear on the table for all players to see. At the conclusion of
the hand, the pot may be pushed to the winning player as the hole cards of all players still in the
hand are revealed. Each player's present bankroll may be graphically or numerically displayed so
that all players know how much each player has available to wager.
[0086]       The game display area 904 may be where players look to view their hole cards. A
player's hole cards may be continuously displayed. In some embodiments, however, steps are
taken to help ensure a player's hole cards remain hidden from other players potentially playing at
nearby terminals to thereby prevent cheating. In some embodiments, a button is included (e.g., the
enter button 932) that causes the hole cards to be revealed. If the button is not depressed, then
the hole cards are simply shown as face down. This way, players can quickly glance at their cards
thereby reducing the risk that someone else can view their hole cards. In other embodiments, hole
cards may be displayed on a separate display screen. In either case, shielding, glass coatings,
polarization screens, and/or the like may be employed to prevent others from viewing a player's
hole cards.
[0087]       The player interaction area 906 includes player buttons, input devices, and the like
through which players interact with the game. It should be appreciated that the player interaction
area 906 may comprise touch screen buttons on the game display area 904. Hence, it should be
understood that this embodiment is merely exemplary of a number of possible embodiments as will
be appreciated by those skilled in the art.
[0088]       The player interaction area 906 in this embodiment includes discard buttons 920 for
draw games (e.g., 5-card draw, 2-7 triple draw lowball, etc.). Players use these buttons to identify
                                                22

cards to be discarded in a drawing round. The player interaction area 906 also includes a bet
button 922, a raise button 924, a fold button 926, a call button 927, and a check button 928.
These buttons are used to take the appropriate action according to each button's name. In some
embodiments, additional input buttons and devices are included. For example, a track ball 930
may be included for indicating how much a player wants to bet in unstructured games. It also may
be used to select from several choices displayed on the display screen 904. It may be used in
combination with the enter button 932 to confirm a selection. A cash out button 934 allows a
player to leave a game with the value the player has presently accumulated. Those skilled in the
art will appreciate many other possibilities in light of this disclosure. For example, depending on
the type of game play contemplated, the player interaction area could include other types of input
devices to accept inputs. These input devices can include, but are not limited to voice recognition,
actuators, joysticks, 3D-image tracking systems to monitor player motions, and the like.
[0089]      The cash and credit interaction area 908 provides a loyalty card accepter 940, a bill or
ticket accepter/dispenser 942, and a coin dispenser 944. These items work in ways similar to
analogous devices on, for example, video poker machines, except that the player terminal sends
signals to the host computer system in response to player actions taken with respect to cashing in
and out.
[0090]      Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing description is merely
exemplary of a number of possible player terminal embodiments. For example, other embodiments
may include all touch screen controls, may only accept bills and dispense tickets, may not include
jackpot values, and the like. Most embodiments, however, minimally include a display area through
which the action is depicted and which may include player input buttons that change depending on
the state of the game. It should also be appreciated that the display region may show display
screens that allow players to select games and limits, enter personal information, if desired, and
advertise promotions and the like when the terminal is not in use. Many other possibilities exist
and are apparent to those skilled in the art in light of this disclosure.
[0091]      Fig. 10 illustrates an example of a player terminal            1000 according to some
embodiments of the present technology. As illustrated in player terminal 1000, there may be a
player interaction area 1010 where the interactive game is presented. The performance area 1020
can show various challenge levels, typical success rates, payouts, and other information. Game
selection area 1030 may be used to select the one or more games being played, the skill level,
bets, and objectives for winning.
[0092]      Fig. 11 illustrates an example of a set of operations 1100 for selecting game play within
a gaming session according to various embodiments of the present technology.            While some
terminals may be fixed and generally available for play, other player terminals may be personal
                                                   23

computing devices of the player. As such, receiving operation 1110 can receive a notification that
a player terminal has joined the network. Using update operation 1120, the player terminal can be
updated with the available games or a list of the available games. The player can be presented
with an opportunity to select a plurality of games for play. For example, during selection operation
1130, an indication can be received indicating the main game and the bonus round game that the
player would like to combine.
[0093]       Some embodiments set various rules for how the games may be paired. For example,
one rule may require that at least one of the games is an interactive game. As another example,
the rules may seek to limit or minimize the average estimated play time. As such, only those
games with average game play below a particular threshold may be presented as pairing options
once the first game has been selected. Determination operation 1140 can determine if the pairing
rules have been satisfied. If determination operation determines that the pair rules have not been
satisfied, then determination operation 1140 branches to selection operation 1130 where different
selections can be made.         If determination operation determines that the pair rules have been
satisfied, then determination operation 1140 branches to initiation operation 1150 where the
gaming session is initiated.
[0094]       Fig. 12 illustrates an example of a set of operations 1200 for operating an interactive
game according to one or more embodiments of the present technology. The method may be
implemented in gaming network 100 of Fig. 1 or other appropriate system. Those skilled in the art
will appreciate that other exemplary embodiments may include more, fewer, or different steps than
those illustrated and described here.       Further, other exemplary embodiments may traverse the
steps in different orders than shown herein.
[0095]       The set of operations 1200 begins at block 1202 at which a host computer system,
such as the host computer system 102, initiates a game session. A game session, could be, for
example, a poker game among several players. The game session could consist of one or more
hands of poker in which players compete against one another for the pot. The game session could
be a series of blackjack hands in which one or more players compete against the house as is
known in the art. The game session also could be a series of hands of other games such as gin
rummy, bridge, and the like.         As another example, the game session could be any type of
interactive game such as a game of skill, game of chance, or a hybrid game that includes a game
of skill and a game of chance as regular game play or in a bonus.
[0096]       In some embodiments, initiating a game session comprises making a selection
available on one or more player terminals. The selection allows players at the player terminals to
enter the game session. Any number of game sessions could be available at any given time for
players to enter. The games may comprise a variety of games (e.g., Texas Hold'em, 7-Card Stud,
                                                   24

Omaha, Draw poker, 2-7 lowball, Blackjack, Bridge, pinball, Grand Theft Auto, Tetris, Minecraft,
Hearthstone, Super Mario, Super Mario Kart, Pac-Man, Guitar Hero, Galaga, League of Legends,
Frogger, StarCraft, Donkey Kong, words with friends, Sonic the Hedgehog, Counter-Strike,
Metroid, Ms. Pac-Man, Space Invaders, Punch-Out, Rainbow Six Seige, Fallout, Final Fantasy,
Call of Duty, Street Fighter, Dota, Journey, Dark Souls, etc.) and a variety of limits ($0.25/$0.50,
$11$2, $11$2 Blind No Limit, $10/$20, $500/$1000, etc.). In some embodiments, the players may
be able to select the game played in the gaming session and a game of skill to be played in the
bonus round.       In some embodiments, the game session may be a tournament, which may be a
single-table tournament or a multi-table tournament.
[0097]       At block 1204, players are joined to the game session. This may comprise receiving a
signal from a player terminal that the player desires to enter the game and has deposited sufficient
funds to enter the game. The player is assigned to a seat (or is allowed to select a seat) at a
virtual table, which may be displayed as shown in Fig. 9. The player's bankroll (i.e., the player's
stake in the game) may be depicted at the virtual table.
[0098]        In some embodiments, players may be provided with an option to change their
perspective of the virtual table. For example, a player may desire to "sit" at the bottom of the table
in the seat identified as 912-5 in Fig. 9. If the player is seated in a different seat, the player may
elect to "rotate" the perspective of the table so that the player is depicted in the desired position.
This does not change the player's position at the table with respect to the other players; it merely
changes the player's perspective for display purposes. This option may be useful in reducing
cheating, since the player may relocate his position at the table to a position that obstructs the
view of a potential cheater located near the player's terminal. Of course, a player my elect to take
a different seat at the table in some embodiments.
[0099]        In some embodiments, players are randomly assigned to a game session. While a
player may identify the game and what limit the player wants to play, the table to which the player
is assigned is not up to the player. This minimizes the chance that a group of colluding players are
able to sit at the same table. Of course, a player can always request a table change or leave the
game entirely.
[00100]       In some embodiments, players enter a waiting list for certain games and limits. If, for
example, all the seats at a desired table are taken, a player may request to be placed on a waiting
list for that game. Players may enter waiting lists for specific games and/or limits. When a seat
opens in a game session that corresponds to the list in which a player is waiting at the top of the
list, the player is given the opportunity to enter the game session.
[00101]      As described previously, collusion or other forms of cheating may be addressed by
prohibiting players from engaging in the same game session from locations proximate one
                                                    25

another. For example, if a casino has a plurality of player terminals distributed throughout the
casino, then players may be prevented from joining the same game session from neighboring
terminals.    After a player joins a game session from a specific terminal, nearby terminals are
"locked out" of that game session. The same process may be followed at all locations. If players
are playing from wireless terminals, the wireless terminals may have proximity detection features
that perform a similar function of locking out nearby terminals. Many other possibilities exist. In
some embodiments, all or certain players may be permitted to communicate and collude during an
interactive gamine session (e.g., in eSports or other team-based gaming).              As such, some
embodiments allow for the collusion detection to be suspended during certain permitted game
types or as selected by an operator.
[00102]      Once a sufficient number of players are joined to a game session, a game, or hand, is
initiated at block 1206. If, for example, the game is Texas Hold'em Poker, two cards are dealt to
each player in the hand.
[00103]      At block 1208, the game proceeds as is known in the art, with the host computer
system sending signals to each player terminal indicating the state of the game. The player
terminals provide a visual representation of the game state, and a player whose turn it is to act is
provided with a set of options. Hence, play continues at block 1210 with the host computer system
receiving signals indicating a player's action. The actions of blocks 1208 and 1210 continue with
players interactively checking, betting, raising, calling, or folding and the host computer system
updating the state of the game by sending signals to the player terminals. If the game limits are
fixed, players merely need to indicate their selection for the action to proceed. If, however, the
game is "no limit," "pot limit," or another non-structured betting limit, then players also indicate the
size of each bet.
[00104]      At block 1212, a winner is determined and the value of the pot is awarded to the
winning player. A new game may then be initiated at block 1206. Since players are able to enter
and leave game sessions at any time, new players may be joined at block 1204 to replace any
players that leave the game session. While the foregoing description focuses on poker being
played in the game session, those skilled in the art will appreciate that other forms of poker and
other interactive games may be played according to other embodiments of the present technology.
Exemplary Computer System Overview
[00105]      Aspects and implementations of the interactive gaming system of the disclosure have
been described in the general context of various steps and operations. A variety of these steps
and operations may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in computer
executable instructions, which may be used to cause a general-purpose or special-purpose
processor (e.g., in a computer, server, cloud-based gaming platform or other computing device)
                                                  26

programmed with the instructions to perform the steps or operations. For example, the steps or
operations may be performed by a combination of hardware, software, and/or firmware.
[00106]     Fig. 13 is a block diagram illustrating an example machine representing the computer
systemization of the host computer system. The gaming controller 1300 may be in communication
with entities including one or more users 1325 client/terminal devices 1320 (e.g., devices 122),
user input devices 1305, peripheral devices 1310, optional co-processor device(s) (e.g.,
cryptographic processor devices) 1315, and networks 1330 (e.g., 104 in Fig. 1).            Users may
engage with the gaming controller 1300 via terminal devices 1320 over networks 1330. In some
embodiments, all or a portion of the communications between terminal devices 1320 and gaming
controller 1300 can be encrypted. The law requires cryptography for some things.
[00107]     Computers may employ central processing units (CPUs) or processors to process
information.     Processors may include programmable general-purpose or special-purpose
microprocessors, programmable controllers, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs),
programmable logic devices (PLDs), embedded components, a combination of such devices and
the like. Processors execute program components in response to user and/or system-generated
requests. One or more of these components may be implemented in software, hardware or both
hardware and software. Processors pass instructions (e.g., operational and data instructions) to
enable various operations.
[00108]     The gaming controller 1300 may include clock 1365, CPU 1370, memory such as read
only memory (ROM) 1385 and random access memory (RAM) 1380 and co-processor 1375
among others.      These controller components may be connected to a system bus 1360, and
through the system bus 1360 to an interface bus 1335.             Further, user input devices 1305,
peripheral devices 1310, co-processor devices 1315, and the like, may be connected through the
interface bus 1335 to the system bus 1360.          The interface bus 1335 may be connected to a
number of interface adapters such as processor interface 1340, input output interfaces (1/O) 1345,
network interfaces 1350, storage interfaces 1355, and the like.
[00109]     Processor interface 1340 may facilitate communication between co-processor devices
1315 and co-processor 1375.        In one implementation, processor interface 1340 may expedite
encryption and decryption of requests or data.          Input output interfaces (1/O)   1345 facilitate
communication between user input devices 1305, peripheral devices 1310, co-processor devices
1315, and/or the like and components of gaming controller 1300 using protocols such as those for
handling audio, data, video interface, wireless transceivers, or the like (e.g., Bluetooth@, IEEE
1394a-b, serial, universal serial bus (USB), Digital Visual Interface (DVI), 802.11 a/b/g/n/x, cellular,
etc.). Network interfaces 1350 may be in communication with the network 1330. Through the
network 1330, gaming controller 1300 may be accessible to remote terminal devices 1320 (e.g.,
                                                  27

player terminals 122 illustrated in Fig. 1).  Network interfaces 1350 may use various wired and
wireless connection protocols such as, direct connect, Ethernet, wireless connection such as IEEE
802.11 a-x, miracast and the like. Some components of the interactive gaming system may include
various protocols or comply with various standards or certifications set forth by different
associations or regulatory agencies.       For example, some embodiments may use the slot
accounting system (SAS) protocol or comply with the game to system (G2S) standard.
[00110]     Examples of network 1330 include the Internet, Local Area Network (LAN), Metropolitan
Area Network (MAN), a Wide Area Network (WAN), wireless network (e.g., using Wireless
Application Protocol WAP), a secured custom connection, and the like. The network interfaces
1350 can include a firewall which can, in some aspects, govern and/or manage permission to
access/proxy data in a computer network, and track varying levels of trust between different
machines and/or applications. The firewall can be any number of modules having any combination
of hardware and/or software components able to enforce a predetermined set of access rights
between a particular set of machines and applications, machines and machines, and/or
applications and applications, for example, to regulate the flow of traffic and resource sharing
between these varying entities. The firewall may additionally manage and/or have access to an
access control list which details permissions including, for example, the access and operation
rights of an object by an individual, a machine, and/or an application, and the circumstances under
which the permission rights stand. Other network security functions performed or included in the
functions of the firewall, can be, for example, but are not limited to, intrusion-prevention, intrusion
detection, next-generation firewall, personal firewall, etc., without deviating from the novel art of
this disclosure.
[00111]     Storage interfaces 1355 may be in communication with a number of storage devices
such as, storage devices 1390, removable disc devices, and the like. The storage interfaces 1355
may use various connection protocols such as Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA),
IEEE 1394, Ethernet, Fiber, Universal Serial Bus (USB), and the like.
[00112]     User input devices 1305 and peripheral devices 1310 may be connected to 1/O
interface 1345 and potentially other interfaces, buses and/or components.          User input devices
1305 may include card readers, finger print readers, joysticks, keyboards, microphones, mouse,
remote controls, retina readers, touch screens, sensors, and/or the like. Peripheral devices 1310
may include antenna, audio devices (e.g., microphone, speakers, etc.), cameras, external
processors, communication devices, radio frequency identifiers (RFIDs), scanners, printers,
storage devices, transceivers, and/or the like. Co-processor devices 1315 may be connected to
the controller 1300 through interface bus 1335, and may include microcontrollers, processors,
interfaces or other devices.
                                                 28

[00113]     Computer executable instructions and data may be stored in memory (e.g., registers,
cache memory, random access memory, flash, etc.) which is accessible by processors. These
stored instruction codes (e.g., programs) may engage the processor components, motherboard
and/or other system components to perform desired operations. The controller 1300 may employ
various forms of memory including on-chip CPU memory (e.g., registers), RAM 1380, ROM 1385,
and storage devices 1390.        Storage devices 1390 may employ any number of tangible, non
transitory storage devices or systems such as fixed or removable magnetic disk drive, an optical
drive, solid state memory devices and other processor-readable storage media.                 Computer
executable instructions stored in the memory may include an interactive gaming platform having
one or more program modules such as routines, programs, objects, components, data structures,
and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. For example,
the memory may contain operating system (OS) component                      1395, modules and other
components, database tables, and the like.          These modules/components may be stored and
accessed from the storage devices, including from external storage devices accessible through an
interface bus 1335.
[00114]     The database components can store programs executed by the processor to process
the stored data. The database components may be implemented in the form of a database that is
relational, scalable and secure.        Examples of such database include DB2, MySQL, Oracle,
Sybase, and the like. Alternatively, the database may be implemented using various standard
data-structures, such as an array, hash, list, stack, structured text file (e.g., XML), table, and/or the
like. Such data-structures may be stored in memory and/or in structured files.
[00115]     The    gaming    controller   1300   may    be   implemented     in distributed    computing
environments, where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices, which are
linked through a communications network, such as a Local Area Network ("LAN"), Wide Area
Network ("WAN"), the Internet, and the like.        In a distributed computing environment, program
modules or subroutines may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
Distributed computing may be employed to load balance and/or aggregate resources for
processing. Alternatively, aspects of the gaming controller 1300 may be distributed electronically
over the Internet or over other networks (including wireless networks).            Those skilled in the
relevant art(s) will recognize that portions of the interactive gaming system may reside on a server
computer, while corresponding portions reside on a client computer.                Data structures and
transmission of data particular to aspects of the gaming controller 1300 are also encompassed
within the scope of the disclosure.
                                                   29

Conclusion
[00116]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise," "comprising," and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense,
as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not
limited to." As used herein, the terms "connected," "coupled," or any variant thereof means any
connection or coupling, either direct or indirect, between two or more elements; the coupling or
connection between the elements can be physical, logical, or a combination thereof. Additionally,
the words "herein," "above," "below," and words of similar import, when used in this application,
refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the
context permits, words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may
also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word "or," in reference to a list of two
or more items, covers all of the following interpretations of the word: any of the items in the list, all
of the items in the list, and any combination of the items in the list.
[00117]      The above Detailed Description of examples of the technology is not intended to be
exhaustive or to limit the technology to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples
for the technology are described above for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications
are possible within the scope of the technology, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize.
For example, while processes or blocks are presented in a given order, alternative
implementations may perform routines having steps, or employ systems having blocks, in a
different order, and some processes or blocks may be deleted, moved, added, subdivided,
combined, and/or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or
blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also, while processes or blocks are at
times shown as being performed in series, these processes or blocks may instead be performed or
implemented in parallel, or may be performed at different times. Further, any specific numbers
noted herein are only examples: alternative implementations may employ differing values or
ranges.
[00118]      Having described several embodiments, it will be recognized by those of skill in the art
that various modifications, alternative constructions, and equivalents may be used without
departing from the spirit of the technology. Additionally, a number of well-known processes and
elements have not been described in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present
technology. Accordingly, the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the
technology, which is defined in the following claims.
[00119]      The teachings of the technology provided herein can be applied to other systems, not
necessarily the system described above.          The elements and acts of the various examples
described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the technology. Some
                                                  30

alternative implementations of the technology may include not only additional elements to those
implementations noted above, but also may include fewer elements.
[00120]      These and other changes can be made to the technology in light of the above Detailed
Description.    While the above description describes certain examples of the technology, and
describes the best mode contemplated, no matter how detailed the above appears in text, the
technology can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its
specific implementation, while still being encompassed by the technology disclosed herein. As
noted above, particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the
technology should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be
restricted to any specific characteristics, features, or aspects of the technology with which that
terminology is associated.     In general, the terms used in the following claims should not be
construed to limit the technology to the specific examples disclosed in the specification, unless the
above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly, the actual scope of
the technology encompasses not only the disclosed examples, but also all equivalent ways of
practicing or implementing the technology under the claims.
[00121]      To reduce the number of claims, certain aspects of the technology are presented below
in certain claim forms, but the applicant contemplates the various aspects of the technology in any
number of claim forms.     For example, while only one aspect of the technology is recited as a
computer-readable medium claim, other aspects may likewise be embodied as a computer
readable medium claim, or in other forms, such as being embodied in a means-plus-function claim.
Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C.  112(f) will begin with the words "means for",
but use of the term "for" in any other context is not intended to invoke treatment under 35 U.S.C.
 112(f). Accordingly, the applicant reserves the right to pursue additional claims after filing this
application to pursue such additional claim forms, in either this application or in a continuing
application.
[00122]      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or
known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this
specification relates.
                                                  31

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.     A system facilitating interactive gaming among a plurality of players, the system
comprising:
       a host computer system to engage the plurality of players in an interactive gaming session
               of at least one interactive game,
       a plurality of player terminals communicably coupled to the host computer system via a
               network and configured to engage the plurality of players in head to head play
              within the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system,
              wherein at least one of the plurality of player terminals is a mobile computing device
                        supporting only one of the plurality of players and having a wireless antenna
                       to connect the mobile computing device to the host computer system via the
                        network;
              wherein the host computer system causes the location of each of the plurality of
                        player terminals to be identified;
              wherein each of the plurality of player terminals include a display to depict action
                       from the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system;
              wherein each of the plurality of player terminals are configured to receive a
                        monetary value and upon receiving the monetary value use a processor to
                        generate a credit for one of the plurality of players playing on that player
                       terminal; and
              wherein the players interact with the interactive gaming session during the course of
                       the interactive gaming session through a player interaction area that
                        includes a betting interface having one or more buttons that upon actuation
                        place a bet having a betting value that is then deducted from the credit;
       an electronic collusion detection module, under the control of one or more processors,
               configured to detect collusion violations by, at least in part, determining the
               locations of each of the plurality of player terminals and evaluating one or more
               rules in view of the locations of the plurality of player terminals to determine whether
               each of the plurality of player terminals can participate in the interactive gaming
               session;
       wherein the plurality of player terminals or the host computer system collect snapshots of
               state information of the interactive gaming session during the course of the
               interactive gaming session; and
                                                  32

         wherein the snapshots of the interactive gaming session are submitted to the collusion
                 detection module for analysis to detect at least action variability, and upon
                 completion of the analysis the winnings from the interactive gaming session are
                 distributed by adding to the credit associated with one or more of the plurality of
                 players when no collusion or automated play is detected based on the analysis.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one interactive game includes card games,
video games, or arcade games.
3.       The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one interactive game is a game of skill, a game
of chance, or a hybrid game of skill and chance.
4.       The system of claim 1, wherein the at least on interactive game requires at least one
interaction from the player during the course of the interactive gaming session.
5.       The system of claim 1, further comprising an evaluation module to monitor the
communication latency between the plurality of player terminals and the host computer system.
6.       The system of claim 1, wherein upon the conclusion of the gaming session at least one the
plurality of player terminals initiates a bonus round for player, wherein the bonus round is a
different game than the at least one interactive game played in the interactive gaming session.
7.       The system of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of players at the plurality of player
terminals selects the different game to be played during the bonus round at their player terminal at
the end of the interactive gaming session.
8.       The system of claim 1, wherein a first player terminal of the plurality of player terminals
includes a memory having stored thereon instructions that when executed by one or more
processors cause the first player terminal to:
         collect player terminal information;
         report the player terminal information to a collusion detection subsystem that uses the
                 player terminal information to generate a collusion avoidance policy for the first
                 player terminal;
         receive, at the first player terminal, the collusion avoidance policy from the collusion
                 detection subsystem; and
                                                 33

        enforce the collusion avoidance policy on the first player terminal.
9.      The system of claim 8, wherein the player terminal information includes location data or
map coordinates of the first player terminal, hardware configurations of the first player terminal,
software configurations of the first player terminal, and gaming session identifier identifying the
interactive gaming session.
10.     The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of player terminals are configured to
receive monetary value via an electronic data structure representing an indication of the monetary
value.
11.     A system facilitating interactive gaming among a plurality of players, the system
comprising:
        a host computer system to engage the plurality of players in an interactive gaming session
                of at least one interactive game,
        a plurality of player terminals communicably coupled to the host computer system via a
                network and configured to engage the plurality of players in head to head play
               within the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system,
               wherein at least one of the plurality of player terminals is a mobile computing device
                         supporting only one of the plurality of players and having a means for
                         connecting the mobile computing device to the host computer system via the
                         network;
               wherein the host computer system causes the location of each of the plurality of
                         player terminals to be identified;
               wherein each of the plurality of player terminals include a means for depicting action
                        from the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system;
               wherein each of the plurality of player terminals include a means for receiving
                         monetary value and upon receiving the monetary value use a processor to
                         generate a credit for one of the plurality of players playing on that player
                        terminal; and
               wherein the players interact with the interactive gaming session during the course of
                        the interactive gaming session through a player interaction area that
                         includes a betting interface having a means for placing a bet having a
                         betting value that is then deducted from the credit;
                                                    34

        an electronic collusion detection module, under the control of one or more processors,
                wherein the electronic collusion measures are configured to detect collusion
                violations by, at least in part, determining the locations of each of the plurality of
                player terminals and evaluating one or more rules in view of the locations of the
                plurality of player terminals to determine whether each of the plurality of player
                terminals can participate in the interactive gaming session;
        wherein the plurality of player terminals or the host computer system collect snapshots of
                state information of the interactive gaming session during the course of the
                interactive gaming session; and
        wherein the snapshots of the interactive gaming session are submitted to the collusion
                detection module for analysis to detect at least action variability, and upon
                completion of the analysis the winnings from the interactive gaming session are
                distributed by adding to the credit associated with one or more of the plurality of
                players when no collusion or automated play is detected based on the analysis.
12.     The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one interactive game includes card games,
video games, or arcade games.
13.     The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one interactive game is a game of skill, a
game of chance, or a hybrid game of skill and chance.
14.     The system of claim 11, wherein the at least on interactive game requires at least one
interaction from the player during the course of the interactive gaming session.
15.     The system of claim 11,         further comprising an evaluation module to monitor the
communication latency between the plurality of player terminals and the host computer system.
16.     The system of claim 11, wherein upon the conclusion of the gaming session at least one
the plurality of player terminals initiates a bonus round for player, wherein the bonus round is a
different game than the at least one interactive game played in the interactive gaming session.
17.     The system of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of players at the plurality of player
terminals selects the different game to be played during the bonus round at their player terminal at
the end of the interactive gaming session.
                                                  35

18.     The system of claim 11, wherein a first player terminal of the plurality of player terminals
includes a memory having stored thereon instructions that when executed by one or more
processors cause the first player terminal to:
        collect player terminal information;
        report the player terminal information to a collusion detection subsystem that uses the
                 player terminal information to generate a collusion avoidance policy for the first
                 player terminal;
        receive, at the first player terminal, the collusion avoidance policy from the collusion
                 detection subsystem; and
        enforce the collusion avoidance policy on the first player terminal.
19.     The system of claim 18, wherein the player terminal information includes location data or
map coordinates of the first player terminal, hardware configurations of the first player terminal,
software configurations of the first player terminal, and gaming session identifier identifying the
interactive gaming session.
20.     The system of claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of player terminals are configured to
receive monetary value via an electronic data structure representing an indication of the monetary
value.
21.     A method of operating an interactive gaming platform having a host computer system to
engage a plurality of players in an interactive gaming session of at least one interactive game, the
method comprising:
        connecting a plurality of player terminals to the host computer system via a network to
                 engage the plurality of players in head to head play within the interactive gaming
                 session operated by the host computer system,
                wherein at least one of the plurality of player terminals is a mobile computing device
                          supporting only one of the plurality of players;
        identifying the location of each of the plurality of player terminals;
        receiving a monetary value via at least some of the plurality of player terminals;
        upon receiving the monetary value, using a processor to generate a credit for one of the
                 plurality of players playing on that player terminal;
        depicting action from the interactive gaming session operated by the host computer system
                 on displays of any of the plurality of player terminals in the interactive gaming
                 session;
                                                    36

        allowing players to interact with the interactive gaming session during the course of the
                 interactive gaming session through a player interaction area on the plurality of
                 player terminals via a betting interface allowing each of the players to place a bet
                 having a betting value that is then deducted from the credit;
        monitoring, using an electronic collusion detection module, under the control of one or
                 more processors, collusion violations by, at least in part, determining the locations
                 of each of the plurality of player terminals and evaluating one or more rules in view
                 of the locations of each of the plurality of player terminals to determine whether
                 each of the plurality of player terminals can participate in the interactive gaming
                 session;
        collecting snapshots of the interactive gaming session during the course of the interactive
                 gaming session;
        submitting the snapshots to the collusion detection module for analysis to detect at least
                 action variability, and
        distributing, upon completion of the analysis by the collusion detection module, the
                 winnings from the interactive gaming session by adding to the credit associated with
                 one or more of the plurality of players when no collusion or automated play is
                 detected based on the analysis.
22.     The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one interactive game includes card games,
video games, or arcade games.
23.     The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one interactive game is a game of skill, a
game of chance, or a hybrid game of skill and chance.
24.     The method of claim 21, wherein the at least on interactive game requires at least one
interaction from the player during the course of the interactive gaming session.
25.     The method of claim 21, further comprising monitoring the communication latency between
the plurality of player terminals and the host computer system.
26.     The method of claim 21, wherein upon the conclusion of the gaming session at least one
the plurality of player terminals initiates a bonus round for player, wherein the bonus round is a
different game than the at least one interactive game played in the interactive gaming session.
                                                    37

27.     The method of claim 26, wherein each of the plurality of players at the plurality of player
terminals selects the different game to be played during the bonus round at their player terminal at
the end of the interactive gaming session.
28.     The method of claim 21, further comprising:
        collecting player terminal information;
        reporting the player terminal information to a collusion detection subsystem that uses the
                player terminal information to generate a collusion avoidance policy for the first
                player terminal;
        receiving, at the first player terminal, the collusion avoidance policy from the collusion
                detection subsystem; and
        enforcing the collusion avoidance policy on the first player terminal.
29.     The method of claim 28, wherein the player terminal information includes location data or
map coordinates of the first player terminal, hardware configurations of the first player terminal,
software configurations of the first player terminal, and gaming session identifier identifying the
interactive gaming session.
30.     The method of claim 21, wherein each of the plurality of player terminals are configured to
receive monetary value via an electronic data structure representing an indication of the monetary
value.
                                                 38

                                                                       <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                100
                                                                        102           118
                                                                                                       114
                        110
                                                                 108
<removed-apn>
                        112
                                122-12                                          116          122-52
                       122-11         122-13                                           122-51       122-53
               120-1                                                                                         120-5
                                                                 104
              106-1                                                                                           106-5
                       122-16       122-14                                             122-56        122-54
                              122-15                                                          122-55
                               122-22                                                        122-42
                       122-21        122-23                                            122-41        122-43
               120-2                                             122-32
                                                        122-31        122-33                                 120-4
              106-2                                                                                           106-4
                                                120-3
                       122-26         122-24                                           122-46       122-44
                                122-25                                                       122-45
                                               106-3
                                                        122-36         122-34
                                                                 122-35
                                                           <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>

                                            <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                      202-1       202-2        202-3         202-4       202-5
<removed-apn>        $      $    $       $    $         $   $      $    $       $
                  204-1       204-2         204-3        204-4       204-5       $
              $
                                               $
                                               206
                                               $
                                               208
                                          <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                           <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                     310
                                                      300
                GAME PROCESSOR
                                     312
<removed-apn>
              TOURNAMENT PROCESSOR
                                     314                           302
                 LOYALTY TRACKER                            I/O
                                     316
                                                                   304
              ACCOUNTING PROCESSOR
                                                     GRAPHICS
                                     318
               COLLUSION DETECTION
                                                                   306
                                     320
                                                  TERMINAL CONTROL
                 SOFTWARE TEST
                                                                  308
                                     322
                                                   GAME
                WAITING LIST QUEUE                STORAGE
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                EVALUATION MODULE
                                     <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

                                        <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                  MEMORY                             PROCESSOR(S)
                                  402                                404
               POWER SUPPLY                     OPERATING SYSTEM
                                  406                                408
<removed-apn>
                DATA                                     NETWORK
                                  BLUETOOTH
              STORAGE                                  COMMUNICATION
                        410                    412                 414
               AUDIO              MICROPHONE               DISPLAY
                        416                    418                   420
              KEYPAD                    SIM              INPUT/OUTPUT
                        422                    424                   426
                 IDENTIFICATION                   POLICY
                    MODULE                     ENFORCEMENT
                                                  MODULE
                                  430                         432
                    PAYOUT                     SKILL LEVEL
                  ADJUSTMENT                   ADJUSTMENT
                    MODULE                       MODULE
                                  434                         436
                  ACCOUNTING                     STATE
                    MODULE                    RECORDATION
                                                MODULE
                                  438                         440
                                                     GAMING MODULE 428
                               <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                         500
<removed-apn>
              DETERMINE PLAYER TERMINAL INFORMATION            510
              (E.G., TELEPHONE NUMBER, LOCATION, ETC.)
              REPORT PLAYER TERMINAL INFORMATION TO            520
                  COLLUSION DETECTION MODULE
                 RECEIVE, AT THE PLAYER TERMINAL, A            530
                   COLLUSION AVOIDANCE POLICY
                                                               540
              ENFORCE COLLUSION AVOIDANCE POLICY ON
                       THE PLAYER TERMINAL
                           <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                                  <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                                      600
                   610
                               MONITOR PLAYER ACTION WITHIN A GAMING
<removed-apn>
                                             SESSION
                   620
                                 DETERMINE ACTION VARIABILITY (E.G.,
                                   SPEED, LOGIC, STRATEGY, ETC.)
                                                            630
                                         660
                                               AUTOMATED         NO
               CONTINUE OR                                             ALLOW GAME PLAY TO
                                                  PLAY                     CONTINUE
              ELEVATE REVIEW
                                  FLAG         DETECTED?
                                                           650
                                               YES
                               ENFORCE COLLUSION AVOIDANCE POLICY               640
                               (E.G., TERMINATE GAMING SESSION, HOLD
                                         PAYOUTS, OR OTHER)
                                               <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                                    <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                                                  700
<removed-date>
                     RECEIVE INFORMATION                  710
                     REGARDING BASELINE
                      SKILL DISTRIBUTION
                    SET GAME PAYOUTS BASED                720
                        ON BASELINE SKILL
<removed-apn>
                          DISTRIBUTION
                    RECEIVE LIVE GAME PLAY                730
                    STATISTICS FROM ONE OR
                    MORE PLAYER TERMINALS
                      GENERATE UPDATED                    740
                      SKILL DISTRIBUTION
                                              750
                            GAME
                          PAYOUT                          SET FIXED PAYOUT FOR   770
                        MODIFICATIONS         YES           GAMING SESSION
                          NEEDED?
                                NO
                    INITIATE GAMING SESSION
              760       WITH SET PAYOUT
                                               <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                                  <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                                             800
                                         RECEIVE REQUEST
                                       FOR PLAYER TERMINAL               810
                                         TO ENTER GAMING
                                             SESSION
<removed-apn>                             DETERMINE CONNECTION
                                     INFORMATION BETWEEN THE             820
                                      PLAYER TERMINAL AND THE
                                           HOST SERVER
                                                             830
                                NO                                 YES
                                       GAMING CRITERIA MET?
                                          850
               DENY ENTRY TO                                               INITIATE GAMING
               GAMING SESSION                                                  SESSION
                                                        840
                   SUGGEST                860
              ALTERNATIVE GAMING
                   SESSION
                                                <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                                                 <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                                                               900
                Bad Beat Pays                                    $21,350
                Royal Flush Pays                                 $13,250
                Straight Flush Pays                              $825
                Four-of-A-Kind Pays                              $225
                Full House Pays                                  $25
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                       902
                                                                                                       940
                                  912-1                           912-9
                        912-2                                               912-8
                                                                                                       942
                    912-3                            910
                                                                                                       944
                                                                                912-7
                                  912-4                                 912-6
                                             912-5
                                                                                904
                                                                                                       908
                Discard            Discard          Discard       Discard           Discard          Cash
                                                                                                     Out
              920
                            Bet           Raise       Fold       Call       Check          934
               922
                                  924         926          927                           928
                                   Enter (Hold to Reveal Hole Cards)
              906                                                                        932                 930
                                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>

                                                  <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+260E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F>            <U+2711><U+2712><U+271D><U+260E><U+2721> <U+270F><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2715> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2714><U+2716>
                                                                                       1000
                       <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2701><U+271E> <U+271A><U+271B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2717>                     <U+270E><U+2718><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2725><U+270F><U+271B><U+2605><U+2701><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2718><U+2717><U+2729><U+2719><U+271E><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+2719><U+2718><U+2723><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2722> <U+2701><U+272A><U+271B><U+2719><U+2719><U+2718><U+2605><U+271A><U+2718> <U+272B>
                     <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271C><U+2722><U+2719><U+2719> <U+2719><U+2718><U+2723><U+2718><U+2719>
                                                                                1020
                                                    <U+272C><U+261B><U+272D> <U+2717><U+2729><U+2701><U+2701><U+2718><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+272E>
                                                    <U+271E><U+272E><U+270E><U+2722><U+2701><U+271B><U+2719> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271B><U+272E><U+2718><U+2725>
              1030         <U+2717><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2718><U+271E>
                                                    <U+2719><U+2718><U+2723><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2722><U+2722> <U+2701><U+272A><U+271B><U+2719><U+2719><U+2718><U+2605><U+271A><U+2718> <U+272B>
                       <U+2717><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2727><U+2724><U+273F><U+2718><U+2701><U+271E><U+2722><U+2723><U+2718><U+2717>               <U+270D><U+261B><U+272D> <U+2717><U+2729><U+2701><U+2701><U+2718><U+2717><U+2717> <U+2724><U+272E>
                                                    <U+271E><U+272E><U+270E><U+2722><U+2701><U+271B><U+2719> <U+270E><U+2719><U+271B><U+272E><U+2718><U+2725>
                     <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2714><U+261B><U+261B>    <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2733><U+2714><U+2714><U+2739> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2725> <U+2714><U+261B><U+261B><U+272D> <U+2701><U+2727><U+270F><U+270E><U+2719><U+2718><U+271E><U+2722><U+2727><U+2605>
                                 <U+2731><U+273A><U+273B><U+2730> <U+273C><U+2730><U+273B><U+2735><U+273A><U+273D><U+273A><U+273D><U+273E><U+2732> <U+270C><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2701><U+2727><U+2605><U+2711><U+2717>
                                                                                1010
                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2740>

                                         <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                                1100
<removed-date>                RECEIVE NOTIFICATION          1110
                            OF PLAYER TERMINAL
                             JOINING NETWORK
<removed-apn>
                          UPDATE PLAYER TERMINAL         1120
                           WITH AVAILABLE GAMES
                          RECEIVING INDICATION OF        1130
                           MAIN GAME AND BONUS
                               ROUND GAME
                                                  1140
                     NO        ARE PAIRING
                             RULES SATISFIED?
                                 YES
              1150        INITIATE GAMING SESSION
                                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271E>

                             <U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
                                                       1200
                                                1202
                  INITIATE A GAME SESSION
<removed-apn>
                 JOIN PLAYERS TO THE GAME       1204
                          SESSION
                                                1206
                      INITIATE A GAME
                                                1208
               SEND SIGNALS RELATING TO THE
                GAME TO PLAYER TERMINALS
              RECEIVE SIGNALS RELATING TO THE   1210
              STATE OF THE GAME FROM PLAYER
                         TERMINALS
                                                1212
                       AWARD VALUE
                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2701>

                                                                        <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
<removed-date>
              User input devices      Peripheral devices            Co-processor                    Terminal devices
                     1305                   1310                    devices 1315                         1320
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                              Users 1325
                                                                                                        Networks
                                                                                                          1330
                                                                    Interface Bus
                                                                         1335
                     Processor interface            I/O interface              Network interface          Storage interface
                           1340                         1345                        1350                        1355
                                           System Bus                                              Storage device 1390
                                              1360
                                                                                                   Modules and engines
                       Clock                 CPU                Co-processor
                       1365                  1370                  1375                             Operating System
                                                                                                          1395
                                   RAM                  ROM
                                   1380                 1385
                                                                                                           DB
                                                               Controller 1300
                                                               <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>

