                                        ABSTRACT
   Provided   is    a road-shoulder-detecting             system with which        it
   is  possible       to   accurately        measure    the   orientation      of     a
 5 vehicle   relative        to   a   road    shoulder    and   the   distance     to
   the  road   shoulder.        The present       invention    is   provided with
   road   shoulder-detecting            units     (2a,   2b)   for    detecting       a
   road shoulder        (B) that is located on a road surface                 (A) by
   scanning the road surface              (A) in front of a vehicle           (1) in
10 the  traveling        direction       of   the   vehicle    (1),    and   a  road
   shoulder-measuring            device         (21a)    for      measuring       the
   orientation        of   the     vehicle       (1)   relative     to   the    road
   shoulder      (B)    that     was    detected      by   the    road   shoulder
   detecting     units       (2a,    2b)    and   the   distance     to   the   road
15 shoulder     (B) ,    the   two    road    shoulder-detecting        units    (2a,
   2b)  being disposed on            the   traveling-direction-side          of   the
   vehicle    (1).     The    two    road     shoulder-detecting        units    (2a,
   2b)  are   disposed        at    locations      that   are   higher    than    the
   upper end of a front wheel               (ld).

               2/19
              FIG. 2
             2a             I 1b
       2b    /      if
          Ih                     /I
                  la   I di
   40b
40

                              DESCRIPTION
TITLE OF INVENTION:    ROAD SHOULDER-DETECTING    SYSTEM AND
TRANSPORTATION VEHICLE FOR MINING
TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0001]
         The present invention relates to a road shoulder-detecting
system which is used, for example, in a transportation vehicle
for mining and the transportation vehicle for mining.
BACKGROUND ART
 [0002]
        In digging work in a mine, a technique to use an unmanned
vehicle capable of traveling autonomously for the purpose of
enhanced   safety and cost reduction is   demanded.      As for digging
work, in the case of so-called open-pit mining in which digging
is done from the earth's surface into the underground in a
swirling manner without making a drift to mine minerals near the
earth's surface, it is necessary to excavate gravel in the
deepest area and transport the excavated gravel to outside the
mining site. For transportation of the gravel to outside the
mining site, a huge dump truck with a large load capacity or the
like is used; however, the amount of transported gravel per unit
time is directly related to the progress of mining and thus the
gravel must be transported by a    dump truck   traveling     at high
speed.
 [0003]

        On the other hand, in order to transport a large amount of
gravel to outside the mining site efficiently, a plurality of
dump trucks must travel outward and homeward many times on a road
for transportation and it is important to take countermeasures
against collision between dump trucks traveling outward and
homeward and tumbling of dump trucks from cliffs.
 [0004]
        The related art which reduces collisions during high speed
traveling of dump trucks is disclosed in Patent Literature 1.    In
the travel control apparatus for vehicles disclosed in Patent
Literature 1, when another vehicle is absent near the subject
vehicle, the subject vehicle is made to travel on a solo
traveling course set around the center of the road.    Only when the
vehicles come closer and should pass by each other, the subject
vehicle is made to move to a passing-by course located near a
road side at lower speed and allows the other vehicle to travel
past and then increases the speed to travel at high speed again
while moving back to the solo traveling course.
 [0005]
        In Patent Literature 1, when the road width is considered
in traveling, the road width and the vehicle position on the road
are calculated from course data stored in a course data memory
unit and the vehicle position measured by a vehicle position
measuring unit such as a GPS.
CITATION LIST
PATENT LITERATURE
 [0006]

        PATENT LITERATURE 1: US Patent No. 6941201
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
TECHNICAL PROBLEM
 [0007]
        However, in the travel control apparatus for vehicles
disclosed in Patent Literature 1, there is the risk that
measurement of the vehicle position by the vehicle position
measuring unit might fail due to an obstacle such as a cliff.
Furthermore, no consideration is given to a cloud of dust raised
by another traveling vehicle, inclination of a vehicle caused by
an inclined road surface and an uneven road surface,    so such dust,
inclination of the vehicle or uneven road surface may make it
impossible to detect the distance from the road shoulder to the
solo traveling course or the passing-by course and measure the
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the
distance from the vehicle to the road shoulder.
 [0008]
        The present invention has been made in view of the above
circumstances of the related art and an object thereof is to
provide a road shoulder-detecting system and transportation
vehicle for mining which can accurately measure the orientation
of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the distance to
the road shoulder.
SOLUTION TO PROBLEM
 [0009]

        In order to achieve this object, the invention is
characterized   by including a road shoulder-detecting  unit to scan,
in a traveling direction of a vehicle, a road surface in front of
the vehicle and detect a road shoulder located on the road
surface and a road shoulder-measuring unit to measure an
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder detected
by the road shoulder-detecting unit and a distance to the road
shoulder, wherein two units of the road shoulder-detecting unit
are installed on a traveling direction side of the vehicle.
 [0010]
        In the present invention thus structured, as compared with
a case that the road shoulder is detected by one road shoulder
detecting unit, the road shoulder-measuring unit can measure the
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the
distance to the road shoulder, considering the pieces of
information detected by the two road shoulder-detecting units in
combination or making the pieces of information complement each
other and thus the road shoulder-measuring unit can measure the
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the
distance to the road shoulder with higher accuracy.
 [0011]
        Furthermore, the invention is characterized in that the two
road shoulder-detecting units are structured to linearly scan a
distance to the road surface in front of the vehicle in the
traveling direction at every given angle with each of the road
shoulder-detecting units as a center and are installed so that a
scanning line on the road surface by one of the road shoulder
                                  4

detecting units and a scanning line on the road surface by the
other road shoulder-detecting unit intersect each other.
 [0012]
        Generally, when the distance from the vehicle to the road
shoulder is short, the possibility of the vehicle coming into
contact with the road shoulder is    high.    On the other hand,  when
the distance from the vehicle to the road shoulder is long, the
possibility of the vehicle coming into contact with the road
shoulder is low, so detection of the position and orientation of
the road shoulder in   a wider area is  required.    Therefore,  in the
present invention, an intersection line on the road surface by
one of the road shoulder-detecting units to linearly scan the
distance to the road surface in front of the vehicle in the
traveling direction at every given angle and a scanning line on
the road surface by the other road shoulder-detecting unit are
made to intersect each other.    As a consequence,    when the distance
from the vehicle to the road shoulder is short, the distance
between the road shoulder detection point detected by one road
shoulder-detecting unit and the road shoulder detection point
detected by the other road shoulder-detecting unit is short and
the position and orientation of the road shoulder are detected in
this short distance, so the road shoulder can be detected with
higher accuracy.    On the other hand,  when the distance from the
vehicle to the road shoulder is long, the distance between the
road shoulder detection point detected by one road shoulder
detecting unit and the road shoulder detection point detected by
the other road shoulder-detecting unit is long, so road shoulder
detection can be made in a wider area      (for example, see Fig. 10).

Consequently, road shoulder detection can be made appropriately
according to the distance from the vehicle to the road shoulder
and autonomous traveling can be controlled more appropriately.
 [0013]
        The present invention is characterized by further including
a memory unit storing a road shoulder shape of a road on which
the vehicle travels, as a reference road shoulder shape, in which
the road shoulder-measuring unit includes a comparison unit to
compare the road shoulder shape detected and calculated by one of
the road shoulder-detecting units with the reference road
shoulder shape stored in the memory unit and measures the
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the
distance to the road shoulder on the basis of comparison by the
comparison unit.
 [0014]
        In the present invention thus structured, the orientation
of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the distance to
the road shoulder are measured by the road shoulder-measuring
unit, considering the reference road shoulder shape stored in the
memory unit, so the accuracy with which the road shoulder
measuring unit measures the orientation of the vehicle relative
to the road shoulder and the distance to the road shoulder can be
improved.
 [0015]
        Furthermore, the present invention is characterized in that
the vehicle includes wheels, and the two road shoulder-detecting
units are mounted on the vehicle and installed in a higher
position than the tops of the wheels.

 [0016]
        In the present invention thus structured, even if a cloud
of dust is raised, for example, during traveling of the vehicle
or another vehicle, the road shoulder can be detected from above
the tops of the wheels by the road shoulder-detecting   units.  Thus,
the road shoulder can be detected by the road shoulder-detecting
units more reliably without being seriously affected by the dust.
 [0017]
        Furthermore, the present invention is characterized in that
the two road shoulder-measuring units take an intersection point
of a scanning line on the road surface by the road shoulder
detecting unit and a scanning line on an inclined surface of the
road shoulder by the road shoulder-detecting unit as a road
shoulder measuring point.
 [0018]
        In the present invention thus structured, as compared with
a case that in addition to the intersection point of the scanning
line on the road surface by the road shoulder-detecting unit and
the scanning line on the inclined surface of the road shoulder by
the road shoulder-detecting unit, the center in the widthwise
direction of the road shoulder is taken as a road shoulder
detection point, for example, considering the width of the road
shoulder based on the road shoulder shape information, the
distance to the road shoulder can be measured by the road
shoulder-measuring unit more easily and the orientation of the
vehicle relative to the road shoulder can be measured by the road
shoulder-measuring unit more accurately by taking the
intersection point of the scanning line on the road surface by
                                  -7

the road shoulder-detecting unit and the scanning line on the
inclined surface of the road shoulder by the road shoulder
detecting unit as a road shoulder measuring point.
 [0019]
        Furthermore, the present invention is characterized in that
the road shoulder-measuring unit measures the orientation of the
vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the distance to the
road shoulder on the basis of relative positions of two road
shoulder measuring points detected by the two road shoulder
detecting units with respect to the vehicle and the reference
road shoulder shape stored in the memory unit.
 [0020]
        In the present invention thus structured, the road
shoulder-measuring unit can measure the orientation of the
vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the distance to the
road shoulder with higher accuracy by measuring the orientation
of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the distance to
the road shoulder considering the relative positions of the road
shoulder measuring points of the two road shoulder-detecting
units with respect to the vehicle and referring to the reference
road shoulder shape stored in the memory unit.
 [0021]
        Furthermore, the present invention is characterized by
including a vehicle body, a road shoulder-detecting unit to scan
a road surface in front of the vehicle body in a traveling
direction of the vehicle body and detect a road shoulder located
on the road surface, and a road shoulder-measuring unit to
measure an orientation of the vehicle relative to the road
                                  P

shoulder detected by the road shoulder-detecting unit and a
distance to the road shoulder, wherein two units of the road
shoulder-detecting unit are installed on a traveling direction
side of the vehicle body.
 [0022]
        In the invention thus structured, as compared with a case
that the road shoulder is detected by one road shoulder-detecting
unit, the road shoulder-measuring unit can measure the
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and the
distance to the road shoulder with higher accuracy by measuring
the orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder
detected by each of the two road shoulder-detecting units and the
distance to the road shoulder.
 [0023]
        Furthermore, the present invention is characterized by
including a road shoulder-detecting unit to scan, in a traveling
direction of a vehicle, a road surface in front of the vehicle
and detect a road shoulder located on the road surface, a
scanning direction changing unit to change a direction in which
the road shoulder-detecting unit scans the road surface, a road
shoulder-measuring unit to measure an orientation of the vehicle
relative to the road shoulder detected by the road shoulder
detecting unit and a distance to the road shoulder, a speed
detecting unit to detect a travel speed of the vehicle, and a
control unit to control the scanning direction changing unit,
wherein two units of the road shoulder-detecting unit are
installed on a traveling direction side of the vehicle, the
scanning direction changing unit is provided in each of the two
                                  Q

road shoulder-detecting units, the two road shoulder-detecting
units are structured to linearly scan a distance to the road
surface in front of the vehicle in the traveling direction at
every given angle with each of the road shoulder-detecting units
as a center and are installed so that a scanning line on the road
surface by one of the road shoulder-detecting units and a
scanning line on the road surface by the other road shoulder
detecting unit intersect each other, and the control unit
controls the scanning direction changing unit according to the
travel speed of the vehicle detected by the speed detecting unit
and shifts an intersection point of a scanning line on the road
surface by one of the road shoulder-detecting units and a
scanning line on the road surface by the other road shoulder
detecting unit in the traveling direction of the vehicle.
 [0024]
        When the travel speed of the vehicle is high, it may be a
case that the vehicle travels on a flat road surface, etc. and it
is necessary to detect the road shoulder forward in the traveling
direction in a wider area rather than the position and
orientation of the road shoulder adjacent to the vehicle.     On the
other hand, when the travel speed of the vehicle is low, it may
be a case that the vehicle travels in an area where the travel
speed should be decreased, such as a bend, slope or uneven road
surface and it is necessary to detect the position and
orientation of the road shoulder adjacent to the vehicle
accurately and prevent contact with the road shoulder or the like
properly.   Therefore,  in the present invention, for example,  if
the travel speed of the vehicle detected by the speed measuring
                                  in

unit is high, the control unit controls each scanning direction
changing unit to shift forward the intersection point of the
scanning line on the road surface by one road shoulder-detecting
unit and the scanning line on the road surface by the other road
shoulder-detecting unit so that the distance between the road
shoulder detection point detected by the one road shoulder
detecting unit and the road shoulder detection point detected by
the other road shoulder-detecting unit can be increased and the
road shoulder can be detected in a wider area     (for example, see
Fig.  17) . On the other hand,  if  the travel speed of the vehicle
detected by the speed measuring unit is low, the control unit
controls each scanning direction changing unit to shift backward
the intersection point of the scanning line on the road surface
by the one road shoulder-detecting unit and the scanning line on
the road surface by the other road shoulder-detecting unit so
that the distance between the road shoulder detection point
detected by the one road shoulder-detecting unit and the road
shoulder detection point detected by the other road shoulder
detecting unit can be decreased and the road shoulder can be
detected with higher accuracy.     Thus, road shoulder detection can
be made appropriately according to the travel speed of the
vehicle and autonomous traveling can be controlled more
appropriately.
ADVANTAGEOUS EFFECTS OF INVENTION
 [0025]
        The present invention is structured so that two road
shoulder-detecting units installed on the traveling direction
                                   11

side of the vehicle each scans the road surface and the two road
shoulder-detecting units each detects the road shoulder located
on the road surface.    In the present invention thus structured,  as
compared with a case that the road shoulder is detected by one
road shoulder-detecting unit, the road shoulder-measuring unit
can measure the orientation of the vehicle relative to the road
shoulder and the distance to the road shoulder, considering the
pieces of information detected by the two road shoulder-detecting
units in combination or making the pieces of information
complement each other and thus the road shoulder-measuring unit
can measure the orientation of the vehicle relative to the road
shoulder and the distance to the road shoulder accurately.    As a
consequence, the road shoulder can be detected from the vehicle
with higher accuracy and for example, autonomous traveling of the
vehicle can be performed more appropriately and accurately.    Other
objects, elements and effects than the abovementioned will more
fully appear from the following detailed description of
embodiments.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
 [0026]
 [FIG. 1] Fig. 1 is a schematic view showing a road shoulder
detecting system according to a first embodiment of the present
invention.
 [FIG. 2] Fig. 2 is a schematic perspective view showing a
transportation vehicle for mining for use with the road shoulder
detecting system.
                                  12

 [FIG. 3] Fig. 3 is a schematic  plan view showing the scanning
direction of road shoulder-detecting units of the transportation
vehicle for mining.
 [FIG. 4] Fig. 4 is a schematic  perspective view showing a   road
shoulder-detecting unit of the transportation vehicle for mining.
 [FIG. 5] Fig. 5 is a view showing road shoulder detection by the
road shoulder-detecting units, in which     (a) is a schematic
perspective view showing the scanning condition during road
shoulder detection and    (b) is a graph showing road shoulder
detection point P.
 [FIG. 6] Fig. 6 is a flowchart showing the road shoulder detection
process by the transportation vehicle for mining.
 [FIG. 7] Fig. 7 is a flowchart showing the autonomous traveling
process by the transportation vehicle for mining.
 [FIG. 8] Fig. 8 is a view showing the effect of the road shoulder
detecting units of the transportation vehicle for mining which
depends on where they are installed, in which      (a) shows a case
that the road shoulder-detecting units are installed in a lower
position than the wheels and    (b) shows a case that the road
shoulder-detecting units are installed in a higher position than
the wheels.
 [FIG. 9] Fig. 9 is a schematic view showing a transportation
vehicle for mining according to a second embodiment of the
present invention.
 [FIG. 10] Fig. 10 is a schematic plan view showing the scanning
directions of road shoulder-detecting units of the transportation
vehicle for mining.
                                    12

[FIG. 11 Fig.  11 is  a   schematic perspective view showing the
scanning condition during road shoulder detection by the road
shoulder-detecting     units    of the  transportation      vehicle for mining.
[FIG. 12] Fig.  12 is   a   schematic  plan view showing the scanning
directions of road shoulder-detecting units of a transportation
vehicle for mining according to a third embodiment of the present
invention.
[FIG. 13] Fig.  13 is   a   schematic  view showing a      road shoulder
detecting system according to a fourth embodiment of the present
invention.
[FIG. 14] Fig.  14 is   a   schematic  view showing a      road shoulder
detecting system according to a fifth embodiment of the present
invention.
[FIG. 15] Fig.  15 is   a   schematic  view showing a      road shoulder
detecting unit during low speed traveling of a transportation
vehicle for mining according to a sixth embodiment of the present
invention, in which       (a) is an overall view of the transportation
vehicle for mining, and        (b) is a fragmentary enlarged view of the
road shoulder-detecting unit.
[FIG. 16] Fig.  16 is   a   schematic  view showing the road shoulder
detecting unit during high speed traveling of the transportation
vehicle for mining, in which        (a) is an overall view of the
transportation vehicle for mining and             (b) is a fragmentary
enlarged view of the road shoulder-detecting unit.
[FIG. 17] Fig.  17 is   a   schematic  plan view showing the scanning
directions of the road shoulder-detecting units of the
transportation vehicle for mining.
                                       1/

 [FIG. 18] Fig.  18 is  a fragmentary enlarged view of a        road
shoulder-detecting unit of a transportation vehicle for mining
according to a seventh embodiment of the present invention, in
which    (a) is an exploded view,    (b) is a view showing a state at
high speed, and     (c) is a view showing a state at low speed.
 [FIG. 19] Fig. 19 is a view of a profile showing distance
measurement results versus optical axis rotation angle in a
transportation vehicle for mining according to an eighth
embodiment of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
 [0027]
        Next, forms for embodying a road shoulder-detecting system
according to the present invention will be described referring to
drawings.
 [0028]
 [First Embodiment]
        The first embodiment is an embodiment in which the scanning
directions of two road shoulder-detecting units are parallel.              Fig.
1 is a schematic view showing a road shoulder-detecting system
100 according to the first       embodiment.    Fig.   2 is  a schematic
perspective view showing an off-road dump truck which is a
vehicle 1 as a transportation vehicle for mining for use with the
road shoulder-detecting      system 100.   Fig.   3 is   a  schematic plan
view showing the scanning directions of road shoulder-detecting
units   2a,  2b of the vehicle    1. Fig.  4 is   a   schematic  perspective
view   showing the    road shoulder-detecting     unit   2a  of the vehicle  1.
 [0029]

<Structure>
        As shown in Fig. 2, the vehicle 1 is of the unmanned travel
type which can travel autonomously on a road surface A of a road
preliminarily provided in   a mine or the like.   A road shoulder B
which is an object of detection is provided along the road
surface A on a side of the road surface A of the mine.      The road
shoulder B is an embankment which is located at least on a side
where the vehicle 1 travels, for example, on the left in the
traveling direction and has prescribed height and width
dimensions and it is, for example, 30 m away from the traveling
position of the vehicle 1.    In  the mine, as shown in  Fig. 1, a
traffic control center 200 having a traffic control system for
receiving and sending given information between it and the
vehicle 1 is installed and a hydraulic shovel     (not shown) is used
to load a load such as gravel onto the vehicle 1.
 [0030]
        As shown in Fig. 1, the vehicle 1 includes a vehicle body
la, a driver seat lb located on the front and upper side of the
vehicle body la, a vessel 1c as a working area mounted over the
vehicle body la in an elevatable manner, and left and right front
wheels id and rear wheels le travelably supporting the vehicle
body la.    The front wheels ld are driven wheels and the rear
wheels le are drive wheels.
 [0031]
        The driver seat lb is installed on an upper deck lf which
is roughly in the shape of a flat plate, to enable the driver to
climb onto the driver seat.     The upper deck lf is  located above
the tops of the front wheels id in a manner to cover the front
                                    1r

wheels id.   Also the upper deck lf is    located on the front side of
the vehicle body la and extends across the entire width of the
vehicle body la.    A pair of buildings   lg are provided in     the
center under the upper deck lf with a prescribed spacing between
them and a heat exchanger 1h such as a radiator is installed
between the buildings 1g.
 [0032]
        An air cleaner li is mounted on the outside of each of the
pair of buildings 1g.    Each air cleaner li      is installed in  a
corner partitioned off by the upper deck lf and building 1g.           A
cylindrical filter element 1j for trapping dust in the air is
attached to each air cleaner li.      Each filter    element 1j is
attached to each air cleaner li with one end protruding forward
from the front end of the upper deck if.
 [0033]
        Inside each building lg, a total of two road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b are mounted to detect the relative
position of a portion of the road shoulder B existing on one side
in the traveling direction M of the vehicle body la, for example,
on the left   in the traveling direction.      The road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b scan the road surface in front of the
vehicle body la in the traveling direction M of the vehicle body
la.   These road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are installed
under the upper deck lf and on the air cleaners li partitioned
off by the upper deck lf and building 1g.         Specifically,  these
road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are located so that the
filter elements lj protruding from the front of the vehicle body
la are not within scanning planes 40a, 40b where the road
                                   17

shoulder B is detected by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a,
2b.   In addition, the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are
located in a higher position than the tops of the front wheels 1d
and installed at the same height, on the left and right in the
forward direction as the traveling direction of the vehicle body
la.   Concretely, the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are
installed about 4 m above the lower ends of the front wheels ld.
Instead the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b may be installed
at different heights.
 [0034]
        The road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are laser scanners
or the like which can measure the distance to an object and its
direction by reflected light from the object by irradiating laser
light at every given angle with the road shoulder-detecting units
2a, 2b as centers and scanning the road surface A in a fan-like
form.    Fig. 4 shows the road shoulder-detecting   unit 2a with a
detection window 2c, as a concrete example of the road shoulder
detecting units 2a,   2b.  As shown in Fig. 2,   the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b are installed in a manner that the
longitudinal direction of the detection window 2c, 2d is along
the left/right direction of the vehicle body la and the center of
the longitudinal direction of the detection windows 2c, 2d is
obliquely oriented downward.
 [0035]
        On the other hand, the road shoulder-detecting system 100
includes: a road shoulder-detecting device 21 to measure the
orientation of the vehicle body la relative to the road shoulder
B and the distance to the road shoulder B;     a self-position
                                   IP

measuring device 22 to measure the position and posture of the
vehicle body la;   a vehicle body motion control device 23 to
change the distance of the vehicle body la from the road shoulder
B and its speed according to the road surface width and presence
of an oncoming vehicle; and a communication device 24 for
communication with the traffic control center 200.
 [0036]
        The road shoulder-detecting device 21 includes: road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b; a road shoulder-measuring device
21a as a road shoulder-measuring unit to measure the orientation
of the vehicle body la relative to the road shoulder B and the
distance to the road shoulder B on the basis of the result of
measurement by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b;     and a
road shoulder memory unit 21b as a memory unit to store road
shoulder data concerning the position of the road shoulder in an
external coordinate system around the road surface A, namely the
shape of the road shoulder itself such as a linear road shoulder
or curved road shoulder, as a reference road shoulder shape.
 [0037]
        The road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are connected to
the road shoulder-measuring device 21a and the road shoulder
measuring device 21a is connected to the road shoulder memory
unit 21b.   As shown in  Figures 2 and 3,  the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b are set so that intersection lines Lla,
Lib as linear scanning lines formed by measuring points on the
road surface A reached by laser light radiated from the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b extend along the widthwise
direction of the road surface A    (road width direction) and the
                                  10

intersection lines Lla, Lib formed by the measuring points on the
road surface A by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are
parallel to each other.    Also, the road shoulder-detecting units
2a, 2b scan the measuring points on the road surface A while
changing radiation directions 41a, 41b of laser light from the
road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b at every given predetermined
angle, for example, 0.25 degree and measure the distance to the
road surface A at each given angle on scanning planes 40a, 40b as
laser light scanning planes by the road shoulder-detecting units
2a,  2b.   Specifically, the road shoulder-detecting units 2a,  2b
have, for example, an angular resolution of 0.25 degree and the
interval between measuring points at a point 30 m away is 1 m.
 [0038]
        The road shoulder-measuring device 21a further includes a
comparison unit 21c to compare the road shoulder information
detected by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b with the
road shoulder data stored in the road shoulder memory unit 21b
and measures the orientation of the vehicle body la relative to
the road shoulder B and the distance to the road shoulder B on
the basis of comparison by the comparison unit 21c.
 [0039]
        The self-position measuring device 22 includes: a wheel
speed measuring unit 22a to measure the rotation speed of, for
example, the front wheel 1d of the vehicle body la;    a steering
angle measuring unit 22b to measure the steering angle of a
steering wheel (not shown) provided on the driver seat lb of the
vehicle body la;   and a self-position calculating device 22c to
calculate the travel speed of the vehicle body la, the angular
                                   2n

velocity of the front wheel ld, the position and posture of the
vehicle body la in a coordinate system fixed on the ground from
the result of rotation speed measurement by the wheel speed
measuring unit 22a and the result of steering angle measurement
by the steering angle measuring unit 22b.      The wheel speed
measuring unit 22a is a speed detecting unit to detect the travel
speed of the vehicle 1 and it is, for example, a rotation speed
sensor or the like to detect the rotation speed of the front
wheel ld.    The steering angle measuring unit 22b is   a displacement
sensor capable of detecting the steering wheel steering angle or
the like.
 [0040]
        The self-position measuring device 22 includes a self
position correcting device 22d to correct the self-position of
the vehicle body la.     The self-position correcting device 22d is
intended to measure the position and posture of the vehicle body
la with higher accuracy and it is, for example, an inertial
measurement unit    (IMU),  GPS (Global Positioning System) or the
like.    The wheel speed measuring unit 22a, steering angle
measuring unit 22b and self-position correcting device 22d are
connected to the self-position calculating device 22c.
 [0041]
        The vehicle body motion control device 23 includes: a
braking device 23a to decrease or stop the travel speed of the
vehicle body la;    a drive torque limiting device 23b to limit the
instructed value of rotation torque for the rear wheel le of the
vehicle 1; a steering control device 23c to change the distance
of the vehicle body la from the road shoulder B; a data memory
                                    21

unit 23d storing map data including the travel road route, road
width of the road surface A, and information on oncoming
vehicles; and a vehicle control device 23e to calculate the
amount of braking by the braking device 23a, the amount of
limitation by the drive torque limiting device 23b, and the
amount of control by the steering control device 23c.    The vehicle
control device 23e is a control unit which calculates the amount
of braking by the braking device 23a, the amount of limitation by
the drive torque limiting device 23b, and the amount of control
by the steering control device 23c from the map data stored in
the data memory unit 23d in order to limit the distance of the
vehicle body la to the road shoulder B and its travel speed.
 [0042]
        The braking device 23a is a mechanical brake which has a
mechanical structure, such as a disc brake to brake the rotation
of,  for example,  the rear wheel le.  The drive torque limiting
device 23b is a retarder brake such as an electric brake which
applies an electric resistance to the rotation of, for example,
the rear wheel le to brake it.    The map data stored in  the data
memory unit 23d also includes road shoulder information such as
the shape of a road shoulder located on a side of the road.     The
map data stored in the data memory unit 23d, the self-position
information calculated by the self-position calculating device
22c, and the road shoulder information measured by the road
shoulder measuring device 21a are entered in the vehicle control
device 23e.   The vehicle control device 23e is  connected to the
braking device 23a, drive torque limiting device 23b, and
steering control device 23c.

 [0043]
        The communication device 24 is connected to the self
position calculating device 22c and sends the information on the
self-position of the vehicle 1 calculated by the self-position
calculating device 22c to the traffic control center.   The
communication device 24 is connected to the road shoulder memory
unit 21b and data memory unit 23d so that the road shoulder
position data stored in the road shoulder memory unit 21b and the
map data stored in the data memory unit 23d can be output through
the communication device 24.
 [0044]
        The traffic control center 200 includes: a communication
device 31 to send and receive information between it and the
communication device 24 mounted in the vehicle 1; a road shoulder
data memory unit 32 to store a road shoulder shape map including
the road shoulder shape of the road; a road shoulder shape
comparison device 33 as a comparison unit to compare the road
shoulder shape information sent from the communication device 24
of the vehicle 1 to the communication device 31, with the road
shoulder shape map stored in the road shoulder data memory unit
32; and a change data memory unit 34 to store the road shoulder
shape change information of the road shoulder shape information
when the road shoulder shape information is found different from
the road shoulder map by comparison by the road shoulder shape
comparison device 33.
 [0045]
<Road shoulder detection process>

       Next, the road shoulder detection process by the road
shoulder-detecting system 100 will be described referring to
Figures 5 and 6.   Fig.  5 is   a view showing road shoulder detection
by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b, in which        (a) is a
schematic perspective view showing the scanning condition during
road shoulder detection and (b) is a graph showing road shoulder
detection point P.    Here,   Fig. 5(a)  shows the vehicle 1 which is
traveling while detecting the road shoulder B on the road and the
broken line in Fig. 5(a) indicates the road shoulder position
calculated by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b and the
road shoulder-measuring     device 21a.   The road shoulder B is   not
necessarily present on only one side of the vehicle 1 and may be
present on both sides of the vehicle 1, and as shown in Fig. 8
and described later, one side may be an inclined surface (slope
face) and such inclined surface is also a road shoulder B.         Fig. 6
is a flowchart showing the road shoulder detection process by the
vehicle 1.
[0046]
       First, the left and right road shoulder-detecting units 2a,
2b detect the road surface A and the road shoulder B and the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b acquire distance measurement data
for the road surface A and the road shoulder B (step S1,
hereinafter  simply referred to as "Sl") .      From the distance
measurement data acquired at S1, as shown in Figures 5(a) and
5 (b), the road shoulder-measuring device 21a calculates
intersection lines Li    (Lla, Lib) where the scanning planes 40a,
40b by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b intersect the
road surface A (S2) .   At the same time,    from a measuring point on
                                     ?9/

an inclined surface B1 of the road shoulder B, the road shoulder
measuring device 21a calculates intersection lines L2     (L2a, L2b)
where the scanning planes 40a, 40b by the road shoulder-detecting
units 2a, 2b intersect the inclined surface B1 of the road
shoulder B   (S3).
 [0047]
        After that, the road shoulder-measuring device 21a takes
the intersection points of the intersection lines Lla, Lib
calculated at S2 and the intersection lines L2a, L2b calculated
at S3, as road shoulder detection points P(Pa, Pb)    (S4).
Specifically, as shown in Fig. 5(a),   the point where the
intersection lines Lla and L2a intersect each other is taken as
road shoulder detection point Pa and the point where the
intersection lines Lib and L2b intersect each other is taken as
road shoulder detection point Pb.
 [0048]
        Furthermore, referring to the road shoulder data stored in
the road shoulder memory unit 21b, the road shoulder shape in the
road shoulder data, the self-position of the vehicle 1 based on
the distance measurement data detected by the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b and the road shoulder detection points Pa,
Pb are compared and the road shoulder-measuring device 21a
calculates orientation a of the vehicle 1 relative to the road
shoulder B and distance D to the road shoulder B from the road
shoulder shape and the positional relation between the self
position and the road shoulder detection points Pa, Pb, namely
the relative positions of the road shoulder detection points Pa,
Pb with respect to the vehicle 1 (S5).

 [0049]
        Here, the present position of the vehicle 1 is estimated,
for example, from a GPS or estimated by the       self-position
calculating device 22c which calculates the travel speed of the
vehicle 1 as corrected by the     self-position correcting device 22d,
the angular velocity of the front wheel ld, and the position and
posture of the vehicle 1 in the coordinate system fixed on the
ground, from the result of rotation speed measurement by the
wheel speed measuring unit 22a and the result of steering angle
measurement by the steering   angle measuring unit     22b.    A decision
is made as to whether or not the orientation of the vehicle 1 and
the distance to the road shoulder calculated from the position
and posture of the vehicle 1 as calculated by the self-position
calculating device 22c are equal to the orientation a         and
distance D calculated at S5    (S6).
 [0050]
        If at S6 the orientation and distance calculated by the
self-position calculating device 22c are decided to be equal to
the orientation a   and distance D calculated at S5      (Yes),   the road
shoulder detection process   shown   in Fig. 6 is   ended.   On the other
hand, if at S6 the orientation and distance       calculated by the
self-position calculating device 22c are decided to be not equal
to the orientation a   and distance D calculated at S5       (No),  a
decision is made as to whether the orientation a       and distance D
calculated at S5 changes continuously within a predetermined
range   (S7).
 [0051]

          If at S7 the orientation a and distance D calculated at S5
are decided to change continuously within the predetermined range
 (Yes), the road shoulder-measuring device 21a calculates the
detection positions in the external coordinate system for the
road shoulder detection points Pa, Pb calculated at S4 and the
detection information thus calculated is sent through the
communication device 24 to the communication device 31 in the
traffic     control center 200   (S8) .    On the other hand,  if at S7 the
orientation a and distance D calculated at S5 are decided not to
change continuously within the prescribed range but to be
discontinuous      (No), it is decided that measurement by the self
position measuring device 22, namely calculation of the position
and posture of the vehicle 1 by the self-position calculating
device 22c, is abnormal, and the vehicle control device 23e of
the vehicle body motion control device 23 stops traveling of the
vehicle 1 or stops the vehicle 1 by controlling the braking
device 23a and drive torque limiting device 23b           (S9).
 [0052]
<Autonomous traveling process>
          Next, the autonomous traveling process by the road
shoulder-detecting system 100 will be described referring to Fig.
7.     Fig. 7 is a flowchart showing the autonomous traveling process
by the vehicle 1.
 [0053]
          The vehicle control device 23e of the vehicle body motion
control device 23 acquires the information on the self-position
of the vehicle 1 as measured by the self-position measuring
device 22     (S11) .  Then, referring to the map data stored in      the
                                        ?97

data memory unit 23d, the orientation relative to the road
shoulder B and the distance to the road shoulder B are acquired
on the basis of the information on the road width of the road
surface A in the map data and the self-position information
acquired at S11    (S12).
 [0054]
        After that, the vehicle control device 23e acquires
information concerning the orientation a of the vehicle 1
relative to the road shoulder B and the distance D from the
vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B as calculated by the road
shoulder-measuring device 21a of the road shoulder-detecting
device 21   (S13).  Then, the orientation and distance acquired at
S12 and the orientation a and distance D acquired at S13 are
compared by the vehicle control device 23e and a decision is made
as to whether the calculated orientation a and distance D are
equal to the orientation and distance calculated by the self
position calculating device 22c    (S14).
 [0055]
        If at S14 the calculated orientation a and distance D are
decided to be different from the orientation and distance
calculated by the self-position calculating device 22c    (No), it
is decided that measurement by the self-position measuring device
22, namely calculation of the position and posture of the vehicle
1 by the self-position calculating device 22c, is abnormal, and
the vehicle control device 23e stops the vehicle 1 by controlling
the braking device 23a and drive torque limiting device 23b     (S15)
 [0056]

        On the other hand, if at S14 the calculated orientation a
and distance D are decided to be equal to the orientation and
distance calculated by the self-position calculating device 22c
 (Yes), the map data stored in the data memory unit 23d is
acquired   (S16) . Then, the vehicle control device 23e compares the
road route information in the acquired map data with the self
position acquired at S11 and the vehicle control device 23e
controls the traveling position of the vehicle 1 to make it a
given predetermined traveling position by appropriately
controlling the steering control device 23c and the drive torque
limiting device 23b, etc. according to the discrepancy between
the route information and the self-position    (S17).
 [0057]
<Effects>
        As explained above, in the road shoulder-detecting system
100 according to the first embodiment, a total of two road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are installed left and right on
the front of the vehicle body la in its traveling direction and
the two road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b each detects the
distance to the road shoulder B on the left in the traveling
direction.    The road shoulder-measuring device 21a measures the
orientation of the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B and
the distance from the vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B on the
basis of the detection information detected by the two road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b.
 [0058]
        In other words, since the total of two road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b installed on the front side of the vehicle
                                   ?9Q

body la each detects the distance to the road shoulder B, as
compared with a case that the information detected by one road
shoulder-detecting unit is used, the pieces of information
detected by the two road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are used
and thus the pieces of information detected by the two road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b can be considered in combination
or made to complement each other or correction can be made using
the two pieces of information, so the accuracy with which the
road shoulder measuring device 21a measures the orientation of
the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B and the distance to
the road shoulder B can be improved.     Thus, since the accuracy of
measurement by the road shoulder-measuring     device 21a is   improved,
detection of the road shoulder from the vehicle 1 can be made
with high accuracy and autonomous traveling of the vehicle 1 by
the vehicle control device 23e of the vehicle body motion control
device 23 can be performed more appropriately and accurately.
 [0059]
        Particularly, the road shoulder-measuring device 21a refers
to the road shoulder data stored in road shoulder memory unit 21b
and the comparison unit 21c compares the road shoulder shape in
the road shoulder data, the self-position of the vehicle 1 based
on distance measurement data detected by the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b and the road shoulder detection points Pa
and Pb, and the road shoulder-measuring device 21a calculates the
orientation a of the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B
and the distance D to the road shoulder B from the road shoulder
shape and the positional relation between the self-position and
road shoulder detection points Pa,   Pb.   In other words,  since the

road shoulder-measuring device 21a measures the orientation of
the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B and the distance to
the road shoulder B on the basis of the road shoulder shape in
the road shoulder data stored in the road shoulder memory unit
21b, considering the relative positions of the road shoulder
detection points Pa, Pb by the two road shoulder-detecting units
2a, 2b with respect to the vehicle 1, so the orientation of the
vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B and the distance to the
road shoulder B can be measured by the road shoulder measuring
device 21a with higher accuracy.
 [0060]
        Furthermore, the intersection points of the intersection
lines Lla, Lib where the scanning planes 40a, 40b by the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b intersect the road surface A and
the intersection lines L2a, L2b where the scanning planes 40a,
40b by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b intersect the
inclined surface B1 of the road shoulder B are taken as road
shoulder detection points Pa,   Pb.  In other words, the road
shoulder detection points Pa, Pb can be measured and calculated
simply by calculating the intersection points of the intersection
lines Lla, Lib where the scanning planes 40a, 40b intersect the
road surface A and the intersection lines L2a, L2b where the
scanning planes 40a, 40b intersect the inclined surface B1 of the
road shoulder B, and thus as compared with a case that, for
example, the center in the widthwise direction of the road
shoulder B is also taken as a road shoulder detection point,
considering not only the intersection lines Lla, Lib and
intersection lines L2a, L2b but also the width of the road
                                  21

shoulder B, the road shoulder-measuring device 21a can measure
the distance to the road shoulder B more easily and the road
shoulder-measuring device 21a can measure the orientation of the
vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B more accurately.
 [0061]
        Fig. 8 is a view showing the effect of the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b of the vehicle 1 which depends on where
they are installed, wherein     (a) shows a case that the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are installed in a lower position
than the front wheels 1d and (b) shows a case that the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are installed in a higher
position than the front wheels ld.       Specifically, if the road is a
dry soil, when the vehicle 1 travels on the road, dust E is
raised due to rotation of the front wheels 1d or rear wheels le
of the vehicle 1 and as shown in Fig. 8, dust E raised by an
oncoming vehicle F may float between the vehicle 1 and the road
shoulder B.    In such a situation,   if  the road shoulder-detecting
units 2a, 2b are installed in a low portion of the vehicle 1 as
shown in Fig. 8(a),    the existence of the dust E between the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b and the road shoulder B may not
only make it impossible for the road shoulder-detecting units 2a,
2b to measure the distance to the road shoulder B accurately, but
also may stain the detection windows 2c, 2d of the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b with the dust E, resulting in a failure to
detect the distance to the road shoulder B.
 [0062]
        For this reason, in the vehicle 1 according to the first
embodiment, the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are

installed in a higher position than the tops of the front wheels
id of the vehicle 1 so that the frequency of dust E rising over
the road surface A of the road adhering to the detection windows
2c, 2d of the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b is reduced and
the distance to the road shoulder B can be detected from above
the rising dust E.   As a consequence,   even if dust E is raised
during traveling of not only the oncoming vehicle F but the
vehicle 1 or another vehicle, the distance to the road shoulder B
can be detected from above the rising dust E by the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b, so the road shoulder can be
detected by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b more
reliably.   At the same time,   the frequency of dust E adhering to
the detection windows 2c, 2d of the road shoulder-detecting units
2a, 2b can be reduced, so deterioration in the accuracy with
which the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b detect the
distance to the road shoulder B can be suppressed.
 [0063]
        Furthermore, the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are
located in a position easily accessible from the upper deck if,
namely under the upper deck lf and on the air cleaner li
partitioned off by the upper deck lf and building ig, so the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b can be inspected from the upper
deck if, which ensures maintainability of the road shoulder
detecting units 2a,   2b.   A total of two road shoulder-detecting
units 2a, 2b are installed at the same height so that the results
of detection by the two road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are
symmetric.   Therefore,   as compared with a case that the two road
shoulder-detection units 2a, 2b are installed at different

heights, the difference in resolution on the road surface A
between the two road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b can be
eliminated and errors in detection by the road shoulder-detecting
units 2a, 2b can be reduced.
 [0064]
 [Second Embodiment]
        Fig. 9 is a schematic view showing a vehicle 1 according to
a second embodiment of the present invention.     Fig.  10 is   a
schematic plan view showing scanning planes 40a, 40b of road
shoulder-detecting units 2a,    2b of the vehicle 1.   Fig.   11 is   a
schematic perspective view showing the scanning condition during
road shoulder detection by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a,
2b of the vehicle 1.    The difference of the second embodiment from
the first embodiment is that whereas in the first embodiment the
intersection lines Lla, Lib formed with measuring points on the
road surface A by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are
parallel to each other, in the second embodiment the intersection
lines Lla,   Lib intersect each other.   In the second embodiment,
the elements which are the same as or equivalent to those in the
first embodiment are designated by the same reference signs.
 [0065]
        Since the scanning planes 40a, 40b of the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b are intended to measure the distance at
every given angle, as the road shoulder B becomes remoter from
the vehicle 1, the detection interval in detection of the
distance to the road shoulder B becomes larger.      Therefore,    in   the
vehicle 1 according to the second embodiment, the intersection
lines Lla, Lib formed with measuring points on the road surface A
                                   24/

by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are made to intersect
each other at a position in   front of the vehicle 1.  For this
reason, in the second embodiment, as shown in Fig. 9, the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are installed at both ends in the
widthwise direction on the front end of the upper deck lf, and as
shown in Figures 9 and 10, the scanning directions of the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are set so that the intersection
lines Lla, Lib, where the scanning planes 40a, 40b by the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b intersect the road surface A,
intersect each other, and the intersection point G of the
intersection lines Lla, Lib passes through the center in the
widthwise direction of the vehicle 1 and is located in front of
the vehicle 1 in the traveling direction.
 [0066]
        As a consequence, as shown in Figures 10 and 11, as the
distance between the vehicle 1 and the road shoulder B is larger,
the distance between road shoulder measuring points Ni and Ni+1
at every interval of scanning by the road shoulder-detecting
units 2a, 2b is larger, and also distance W between the road
shoulder detection point Pa detected by one road shoulder
detecting unit 2a and the road shoulder detection point Pb
detected by the other road shoulder-detecting unit 2b is larger.
In other words, the interval between measuring points by laser
irradiation by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b at every
given angle increases according to the distance to the road
shoulder B and similarly the distance W between the road shoulder
detection points Pa and Pb also increases.    By contrast, in the
first embodiment, the intersection lines Lla, Lib formed with

measuring points on the road surface A by the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b are parallel to each other and thus as
shown in Fig. 3, the distance W between the road shoulder
detection points Pa and Pb remains unchanged or constant, though
the interval between measuring points by laser irradiation by the
road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b at every given angle
increases according to the distance to the road shoulder B.
 [0067]
        Generally, when distance D from the vehicle 1 to the road
shoulder B is relatively short (road shoulder B1 indicated by the
broken lines in Fig. 10),   distance D1 from the vehicle 1 to the
road shoulder B1 is small and the possibility of the vehicle 1
coming into contact with the road shoulder B1 is high, so the
position and orientation of the road shoulder B1 must be detected
accurately in   front of and adjacently to the vehicle 1.  On the
other hand, when distance D from the vehicle 1 to the road
shoulder B2 is relatively long (road shoulder B2 indicated by the
solid lines in Fig. 10),   distance D2 from the vehicle 1 to the
road shoulder B2 is large and the possibility of the vehicle 1
coming into contact with the road shoulder B2 is low, so
detection of the position and orientation of the road shoulder B2
in a wider area is required rather than high detection accuracy.
 [0068]
        Therefore, as in the second embodiment, when the
intersection lines Lla, Lib formed with measuring points on the
road surface A by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b
intersect each other in front of the vehicle 1, if distance D1
from the vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B1 is short as shown in

Fig. 10, distance W1 between the road shoulder detection point
Pal by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a and the road shoulder
detection point Pbl by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2b is
small and the position and orientation of the road shoulder B1
are detected in this small distance W1, so the road shoulder Bi
can be detected in front of and adjacently to the vehicle 1 more
accurately.    On the other hand, if  distance D2 from the vehicle 1
to the road shoulder B2 is long, distance W2 between the road
shoulder detection point Pa2 by the road shoulder-detecting unit
2a and the road shoulder detection point Pb2 by the road
shoulder-detecting unit 2b is large, and orientation a of the
vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B2 can be measured,
considering the orientation a of the road shoulder B2 between the
road shoulder detection points Pa2 and Pb2 more distant from each
other forward in the traveling direction, so road shoulder
detection can be made, considering the road shoulder B2 in a
wider area.    Consequently, road shoulder detection can be made
appropriately according to distance D from the vehicle 1 to the
road shoulder B and autonomous traveling of the vehicle 1 can be
controlled more appropriately.
 [0069]
 [Third Embodiment]
        Fig. 12 is a schematic plan view showing the scanning
directions of road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b of a vehicle 1
according to a third embodiment of the present invention.     The
difference of the third embodiment from the second embodiment is
that whereas in the second embodiment the intersection lines Lla,
Lib formed with measuring points on the road surface A by the
                                   27

road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are set so as to intersect
each other in the center in front of the vehicle 1, in the third
embodiment the intersection lines Lla, Lib are set so as to
intersect each other at a position nearer to the road shoulder B
than the center in   front of the vehicle 1. In  the third
embodiment, the elements which are the same as or equivalent to
those in the second embodiment are designated by the same
reference signs.
 [0070]
        In the third embodiment, as shown in Fig. 12, the
intersection lines Lla and Lib, where the scanning planes 40a,
40b by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b intersect the
road surface A, intersect each other and the scanning directions
of the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are set so that
intersection point G1 of the intersection lines Lla and Lib is on
the side of the road surface A where the vehicle 1 travels, for
example, in the case of left-hand traffic, more leftward than the
center in   the widthwise direction of the vehicle 1.    Furthermore,
the intersection point G1 is set so as to be inside both sides of
the vehicle body la, specifically within interval C between the
road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b and nearer to the road
shoulder B located on the traveling side.
 [0071]
        As explained above, in the third embodiment, the scanning
directions of the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are set so
that the intersection lines Lla, Lib formed with measuring points
on the road surface A by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b
intersect each other within the interval C between the road
                                  2P

shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b and at a position nearer to the
road shoulder B on the traveling side than to the center in front
of the vehicle 1.   Specifically,  the measuring points on the road
surface A by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b cannot be
within the interval C between the road shoulder-detecting units
2a, 2b, so if the intersection point G1 of the intersection lines
Lla, Lib is within the interval C between the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b, distance W between the road shoulder
detection point Pa by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a and the
road shoulder detection point Pb by the road shoulder-detecting
unit 2b can be decreased by bringing the measuring points on the
road surface A by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b,
namely the scanning directions, near to the road shoulder B as
the object of detection, and the position and orientation of the
road shoulder B is detected in this small distance W, so a nearer
portion of the road shoulder B in front of the vehicle 1 can be
detected with high accuracy.   At the same time,  by bringing the
intersection point G1 near to the road shoulder B, the range of
scanning by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b can be
narrowed and the angle and range of scanning by the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b can be decreased.
 [0072]
 [Fourth Embodiment]
        Fig. 13 is a schematic view of a road shoulder-detecting
system according to a fourth embodiment of the present invention.
The difference of the fourth embodiment from the first embodiment
is that whereas in the first embodiment the information on the
road shoulder shape measured by one vehicle 1 is sent to the
                                  2Q

traffic control center 200, in the fourth embodiment pieces of
information on the road shoulder shape measured by a plurality of
vehicles 1, la to 1c are sequentially sent to the traffic control
center 200.    In the fourth embodiment, the elements which are the
same as or equivalent to those in the first embodiment are
designated by the same reference signs.
 [0073]
        In the fourth embodiment, as shown in Fig. 13,  the self
position measuring device 22 as well as the road shoulder
detecting device 21 and vehicle body motion control device 23 are
mounted in each vehicle 1, and the information concerning
orientation a of the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B
and distance D from the vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B which
are measured, and road shoulder shape information such as
information on the detected positions of road shoulder detection
points Pa, Pb in an external coordinate system are sent to the
communication device 31 in the traffic control center 200 through
the communication device 24.    Similarly the other vehicles  la to
1c are also provided with the road shoulder-detecting device 21,
self-position measuring device 22, vehicle body motion control
device 23, and communication device 24, and the information on
the road shoulder shape measured by the vehicles la to 1c is sent
to the traffic control center 200 through the communication
device 24.
 [0074]
        In the traffic control center 200, the road shoulder shape
comparison device 33 compares the road shoulder shape information
sent from the vehicles 1, la to 1c with the road shoulder shape
                                  /an

map stored in the road shoulder data memory unit 32 and if it is
found by comparison by the road shoulder shape comparison device
33 that the road shoulder shape information is different from the
road shoulder shape map, the road shoulder shape change
information in the road shoulder shape information is stored in a
change data memory unit 34.
 [0075]
        As explained above, in the fourth embodiment, the vehicles
1, la to 1c are provided with the road shoulder-detecting device
21, self-position measuring device 22, vehicle body motion
control device 23, and communication device 24 so that according
to the road shoulder shape information sent from the vehicles 1,
la to 1c, the road shoulder shape change information representing
the difference from the road shoulder shape map stored in the
road shoulder data memory unit 32 is stored in the change data
memory unit 34 to update the road shoulder shape map sequentially.
 [0076]
 [Fifth Embodiment]
        Fig. 14 is a schematic view showing a road shoulder
detecting system 100 according to a fifth embodiment of the
present invention.    The difference of the fifth embodiment from
the fourth embodiment is that whereas in the fourth embodiment
the information on the road shoulder shape measured by the
vehicle 1 is sent to the traffic control center 200, in the fifth
embodiment the information on the measured road shoulder shape is
used in the vehicle 1 without being sent to the traffic control
center 200.    In the fifth embodiment, the elements which are the
                                   /1

same as or equivalent to those in the first embodiment are
designated by the same reference signs.
 [0077]
        In the fifth embodiment, as shown in Fig. 14, the road
shoulder-detecting device 21, self-position measuring device 22,
and vehicle body motion control device 23 which constitute the
road shoulder-detecting system 100, except the communication
device 24,   are mounted on the vehicle 1.  When the orientation a
of the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B and the distance
D from the vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B which are calculated
by the road shoulder-measuring device 21a change continuously
within a prescribed range, the detected positions of the road
shoulder detection points Pa, Pb in the external coordinate
system as calculated by the road shoulder-measuring device 21a
are compared with the road shoulder data stored in the road
shoulder memory unit 21b and if there is a difference, the road
shoulder data is updated.
 [0078]
        The vehicle control device 23e decides whether or not the
traveling position of the vehicle 1 is out of a given
predetermined traveling range, on the basis of the orientation a
of the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B and the distance
D from the vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B which are calculated
by the road shoulder-measuring device 21a and if out of the given
traveling range, it controls the drive torque limiting device 23b
and steering control device 23c appropriately to bring the
traveling position of the vehicle 1 within the given traveling
range.    If the vehicle control device 23e decides that the
                                  /19

traveling position of the vehicle 1 is out of the given
predetermined traveling range, an alarm (not shown) provided on
the driver seat lb may give a warning to the operator by means of
sound, light or the like.
 [0079]
        As explained above, in the fifth embodiment, when the
orientation a of the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B
and the distance D from the vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B
which are calculated by the road shoulder-measuring device 21a
change continuously within the prescribed range, the detected
positions of the road shoulder detection points Pa, Pb in the
external coordinate system as calculated by the road shoulder
measuring device 21a are compared with the road shoulder data
stored in the road shoulder memory unit 21b and if there is a
difference, the road shoulder data is updated.
 [0080]
        Furthermore, since the vehicle control device 23e controls
the traveling position of the vehicle 1 on the basis of the
orientation a of the vehicle 1 relative to the road shoulder B
and the distance D from the vehicle 1 to the road shoulder B
which are calculated by the road shoulder-measuring device 21a,
the vehicle control device 23e can control autonomous traveling
of the vehicle 1 more appropriately and accurately.
 [0081]
 [Sixth Embodiment]
        Fig. 15 is a schematic view showing a road shoulder
detecting unit during low speed traveling of a vehicle 1
according to a sixth embodiment of the present invention, in
                                  /42

which   (a) is an overall view of the vehicle 1, and     (b) is a
fragmentary enlarged view of the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a.
Fig. 16 is a schematic view showing the road shoulder-detecting
unit 2a during high speed traveling of the vehicle 1, in which
 (a) is an overall view of the vehicle 1 and     (b) is a fragmentary
enlarged view of the road shoulder-detecting      unit 2a.   Fig.  17 is
a schematic plan view showing the scanning directions of the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a,     2b of the vehicle 1.   In  Fig.  15(a)
and Fig. 16(a),   the road shoulder-detecting unit 2b is omitted.
 [0082]
        The difference of the sixth embodiment from the second
embodiment is that whereas in the second embodiment the road
shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are fixed on the upper deck lf
and the scanning directions of the road shoulder-detecting units
2a, 2b are fixed, in the sixth embodiment the road shoulder
detecting units 2a, 2b are movable so that their scanning
directions can be changed.    In   the sixth embodiment,   the elements
which are the same as or equivalent to those in the second
embodiment are designated by the same reference signs.
 [0083]
<Structure>
        In the sixth embodiment, as shown in Fig. 15(b) and Fig.
16(b),   an axis tilting member 2e, triangular in a side view, is
attached to the upper side of the front corner of the upper deck
if.   The axis tilting member 2e has a tilted surface 2f which is
tilted down from the front side of the upper deck lf to its rear
side.   A drive mechanism 2g is mounted on the tilted surface 2f,
as a scanning direction changing part to change the direction in
                                     /1/

which the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a scans the road surface
A.   The drive mechanism 2g has almost the shape of a flat plate,
and a support member 2h, which is in the shape of a flat plate
fixed on the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a, is mounted on the
upper surface of the drive mechanism 2g.    The support member 2h is
rotatably mounted on the drive mechanism 2g, with its vertical
axis tilted toward the rear of the vehicle on the upper side as
rotation axis V1.   The road shoulder-detecting  unit 2a is mounted
in a manner that its scanning plane 40a is vertically tilted at
the same angle as the tilting angle of the tilted surface 2f of
the axis tilting   member 2e.  Therefore, the road shoulder
detecting unit 2a is structured so that the scanning plane 40a of
the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a can be changed in a range
from a position along the front-back direction as shown in Fig.
15(a) and Fig. 15(b) to a position along the widthwise direction
of the road surface A as shown in Fig. 16(a) and Fig. 16(b) by
rotating the support member 2h using the drive mechanism 2g.     The
road shoulder-detecting unit 2b is structured in the same way.
 [0084]
        The vehicle control device 23e calculates the travel speed
of the vehicle 1 from the rotation speed of the front wheel 1d
detected by the wheel speed measuring unit 22a and controls the
rotation of the drive mechanism 2g according to the calculated
travel speed.    Specifically, if the calculated travel speed is
lower than a given predetermined speed, as shown in Fig. 17, the
vehicle control device 23e rotates the support members 2h inwards
by the drive mechanisms 2g so that the intersection point G1 of
intersection lines Llal and Libl where the scanning planes 40a,
                                   /1 F

40b by the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b intersect the
road surface A shifts toward the front side in the traveling
direction or backward.    Also, if  the calculated travel speed is
higher than the given predetermined speed, the vehicle control
device 23e rotates the support members 2h outwards by the drive
mechanisms 2g so that the intersection point G2 of intersection
lines L1a2 and L1b2 where the scanning planes 40a, 40b by the
road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b intersect the road surface A
shifts further ahead in the traveling direction or forward.
 [0085]
<Effects>
        Generally, when the travel speed of the vehicle 1 is low,
for example, it may be a case that the vehicle 1 travels in an
area where the travel speed should be decreased, such as a bend,
slope or uneven road surface and it is necessary to detect the
position and orientation of the road shoulder B adjacent to the
vehicle 1 accurately and prevent contact with the road shoulder B
or the like properly.    On the other hand,  when the travel speed of
the vehicle 1 is high, it may be a case that it travels on a flat
road surface A along a straight track and it is necessary to
detect the road shoulder forward in the traveling direction in a
wider area rather than the position and orientation of the road
shoulder B adjacent to the vehicle 1.
 [0086]
        Therefore, in the sixth embodiment, if the travel speed of
the vehicle 1 based on the rotation speed of the front wheel 1d
as detected by the wheel speed measuring unit 22a is lower than
the given predetermined speed, the vehicle control device 23e
                                   I r

controls each drive mechanism 2g to shift the intersection point
G1 of the intersection line Llal on the road surface A by the
road shoulder-detecting unit 2a and the intersection line Libl on
the road surface A by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2b toward
the front side of the vehicle 1 in the traveling direction.    As a
consequence, distance W1 between the road shoulder detection
point Pa detected by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a and the
road shoulder detection point Pbl detected by the road shoulder
detecting unit 2b is decreased, so a portion of the road shoulder
B which is adjacent to the vehicle 1 can be detected with higher
accuracy.  Furthermore, if the travel speed of the vehicle 1 based
on the rotation speed of the front wheel 1d detected by the wheel
speed measuring unit 22a is higher than the given predetermined
speed, the vehicle control device 23e controls each drive
mechanism 2g to shift the intersection point G2 of the
intersection line Lla2 on the road surface A by the road
shoulder-detecting unit 2a and the intersection line L1b2 on the
road surface A by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2b forward in
the traveling direction of the vehicle   1.  As a consequence,
distance W2 between the road shoulder detection point Pa detected
by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2a and the road shoulder
detection point Pb2 detected by the road shoulder-detecting unit
2b is increased, so road shoulder detection can be made
considering the road shoulder B in   a wider area.  Therefore, road
shoulder detection can be made appropriately according to the
travel speed of the vehicle 1 and autonomous traveling of the
vehicle 1 can be controlled more appropriately.
 [0087]
                                 J47

 [Other embodiments]
        The present invention is not limited to the above
embodiments but it includes other various modified embodiments.
For example, the above embodiments have been described for easy
understanding of the present invention and the present invention
is not limited to embodiments which include all the elements
described above.
 [0088]
        Furthermore, in the above embodiments, an autonomous travel
type off-road dump truck for mining has been described as an
example of the vehicle 1 but the road shoulder-detecting system
100 according to the present invention may also be mounted on a
manned dump truck to be operated by an operator or another type
of vehicle 1 to perform road shoulder detection.
 [0089]
        In the above embodiments, two road shoulder-detecting unit
2a, 2b are spaced and installed at the same distance from the
center of the front side of the vehicle la in the left-right
direction; however, the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b may
be installed anywhere in which the distance to the road shoulder
B can be detected.   The road shoulder-detecting  units 2a, 2b have
been described on the assumption that they are laser scanners;
however, they may be any units that can detect the distance to
the road shoulder B, other than laser scanners.
 [0090]
        Furthermore, in the sixth embodiment, the drive mechanisms
2g are mounted on the axis tilting members 2e to tilt the
scanning planes 40a, 40b of the road shoulder-detecting units 2a,

2b so that the scanning planes 40a, 40b are shifted for a
distance when the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b are
rotated by the drive mechanisms 2g; however, instead, in the
seventh embodiment shown in Fig. 18(a) to Fig. 18(c),    the drive
mechanism 2g may be mounted on the upper side of the front corner
of the upper deck lf with a vertical axis as rotation axis V2.     In
this case, by rotating the support member 2h by the drive
mechanism 2g horizontally, the scanning plane 40a of the road
shoulder-detecting unit 2a can be changed from the front-back
direction shown in Fig. 18(b) to the left-right direction shown
in  Fig.  18 (c) . Therefore, the intersection point G of the
intersection line Lla on the road surface A by the road shoulder
detecting unit 2a and the intersection line Lib on the road
surface A by the road shoulder-detecting unit 2b can be shifted
along the traveling direction of the vehicle 1, although the
distance of shift of the scanning plane 40a of the road shoulder
detecting unit 2a is smaller than in the sixth embodiment.
 [0091]
        The sixth embodiment adopts a two-step switching method in
which a given predetermined speed is used as a reference and if
the travel speed of the vehicle 1 is lower than the given speed,
the intersection point G of the intersection lines Lla, Lib of
the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b is shifted toward the
front side of the vehicle 1 in the traveling speed and if the
travel speed of the vehicle 1 is higher than the given speed, the
intersection point G of the intersection lines Lla, Lib of the
road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b is shifted forward in the
traveling direction; however, instead, a linear switching method
                                   4dQ

in which the position of the intersection point G is linearly
changed according to the travel speed of the vehicle 1 or a
multi-step method in which it is changed in steps according to
the travel speed of the vehicle 1 may be adopted.
 [0092]
        Furthermore, in the sixth embodiment, in order to detect
the road shoulder B, road shoulder detection points Pa,                 Pb are
found by calculating intersection lines L1,              L2 as shown in Fig.
11;  however, instead, the road shoulder-detecting units 2a, 2b
may associate the optical axis rotation angles with distance
measurement results at the rotation angles              (distance between the
road shoulder-detecting units 2a,          2b and measuring points) to
find road shoulder detection points Pa,             Pb on the basis of change
in  the distance change   rate.      Fig.   19 is    a view of a profile
showing distance measurement results versus optical axis rotation
angle in a vehicle 1 according to an eighth embodiment of the
present invention.    As shown     in   Fig.   11,   when the road shoulder
detecting units 2a,    2b perform scanning with the optical axis
shifted from Ni-1 through Ni to Ni+1, the measuring point comes
closer to the vehicle 1      (distance represents a decreasing
function),   and after it comes closest to the vehicle 1, the
measuring point goes away from the vehicle 1               (distance represents
an increasing   function) .     When the inclined       surface of the road
shoulder B is irradiated by laser, since the inclined surface of
the road shoulder B is higher than the road surface A in the Z
axis direction, the distance to the point of intersection with
the optical axis    (measuring point) decreases according to its
height.   Thus,  in the profile      shown   in    Fig. 19,  as the laser-

irradiated spot shifts from the road surface A to the road
shoulder B, the distance increases gradually.        Thus, the point at
which the distance increase rate      Ad is a positive value and the
increase rate decreases may be detected as intersection point P.
REFERENCE SIGNS LIST
       1...   Vehicle  (transportation vehicle for mining),
       la...   Vehicle body,
       1d...   Front wheel   (wheel),
       le...   Rear wheel  (wheel),
       2a, 2b...   Road shoulder-detecting units,
       2g...   Drive mechanism (scanning direction changing part),
       21a...   Road shoulder-measuring device (road shoulder
              measuring unit),
       21b...   Road shoulder memory unit    (memory unit),
       21c...   Comparison unit,
       22a...   Wheel speed measuring unit (speed detecting unit),
       23e...   Vehicle control device    (control unit)
       40a, 40b...    Scanning planes,
       100... Road shoulder-detecting system
                                      I

                                CLAIMS
 [Claim 1]
        A road shoulder-detecting system comprising:
        a road shoulder-detecting unit configured to scan, in a
traveling direction of a vehicle, a road surface in front of the
vehicle and detect a road shoulder located on the road surface;
and
        a road shoulder-measuring unit configured to measure an
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder detected
by the road shoulder-detecting unit and a distance to the road
shoulder, wherein
        two units of the road shoulder-detecting unit are installed
on a traveling direction side of the vehicle.
 [Claim 2]
        The road shoulder-detecting system according to Claim 1,
wherein
        the two road shoulder-detecting units are each structured
to linearly scan a distance to the road surface in front of the
vehicle in the traveling direction at every given angle with each
of the road shoulder-detecting units as a center and are
installed so that a scanning line on the road surface by one of
the road shoulder-detecting units and a scanning line on the road
surface by the other road shoulder-detecting unit intersect each
other.
 [Claim 3]
        The road shoulder-detecting system according to Claim 1,
further comprising:

        a memory unit storing a road shoulder shape of a road on
which the vehicle travels, as a reference road shoulder shape,
wherein
        the road shoulder-measuring unit includes a comparison unit
configured to compare the road shoulder shape detected and
calculated by one of the road shoulder-detecting units with the
reference road shoulder shape stored in the memory unit and is
configured to measure the orientation of the vehicle relative to
the road shoulder and the distance to the road shoulder on the
basis of comparison by the comparison unit.
 [Claim 4]
        The road shoulder-detecting system according to Claim 1,
wherein
        the vehicle has wheels, and
        the two road shoulder-detecting units are mounted on the
vehicle and installed in a higher position than tops of the
wheels.
 [Claim 5]
        The road shoulder-detecting system according to Claim 1,
        the two road shoulder-measuring units are configured to
take an intersection point of a scanning line on the road surface
by the road shoulder-detecting unit and a scanning line on an
inclined surface of the road shoulder by the road shoulder
detecting unit as a road shoulder measuring point.
 [Claim 6]
        The road shoulder-detecting system according to Claim 5,
wherein

        the road shoulder-measuring unit is configured to measure
the orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder and
the distance to the road shoulder on the basis of relative
positions of two road shoulder measuring points detected by the
two road shoulder-detecting units with respect to the vehicle and
the reference road shoulder shape stored in the memory unit.
 [Claim 7]
        A transportation vehicle for mining comprising:
        a vehicle body;
        a road shoulder-detecting unit configured to scan a road
surface in front of the vehicle body in a traveling direction of
the vehicle body and detect a road shoulder located on the road
surface; and
        a road shoulder-measuring unit configured to measure an
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder detected
by the road shoulder-detecting unit and a distance to the road
shoulder, wherein
        two units of the road shoulder-detecting unit are installed
on a traveling direction side of the vehicle body.
 [Claim 8]
        A road shoulder-detecting system comprising:
        a road shoulder-detecting unit configured to scan, in a
traveling direction of a vehicle, a road surface in front of the
vehicle and detect a road shoulder located on the road surface;
        a scanning direction changing unit configured to change a
direction in which the road shoulder-detecting unit scans the
road surface;

      a road shoulder-measuring unit configured to measure an
orientation of the vehicle relative to the road shoulder detected
by the road shoulder-detecting unit and a distance to the road
shoulder;
      a speed detecting unit configured to detect a travel speed
of the vehicle; and
      a control unit configured to control the scanning direction
changing unit, wherein
      two units of the road shoulder-detecting unit are installed
on a traveling direction side of the vehicle,
      the scanning direction changing unit is provided in each of
the two road shoulder-detecting units,
      the two road shoulder-detecting units are structured to
linearly scan a distance to the road surface in front of the
vehicle in the traveling direction at every given angle with the
road shoulder-measuring unit as a center and are installed so
that a scanning line on the road surface by one of the road
shoulder-detecting units and a scanning line on the road surface
by the other road shoulder-detecting unit intersect each other,
and
      the control unit is configured to control the scanning
direction changing unit according to the travel speed of the
vehicle detected by the speed detecting unit and shift an
intersection point of a scanning line on the road surface by one
of the road shoulder-detecting units and a scanning line on the
road surface by the other road shoulder-detecting unit in the
traveling direction of the vehicle.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
