                                              1
   Abstract
           The utility model discloses a novel lifting table, including a surface frame
   and a bottom frame, wherein the bottom of the surface frame is located in the
   bottom frame, inversed L-shaped rails are arranged on two opposite side walls
 5 inside the bottom frame, sliding blocks moving along the L-shaped rails are
   arranged on the surface frame, and a locking mechanism is arranged between the
   bottom frame and the surface frame. The novel lifting table has the following
   advantages that: compared with the cylinder lifting table, a lifting synchronization
   structure and a locking mechanism are omitted, the structure of a component is
10 simplified, and the production cost is saved.

Fig. 1
Fig. 2

                                                1
                                      Novel Lifting Table
   BACKGROUND
           The utility model belongs to the technical field of furniture, and particularly
   relates to a novel lifting table.
 5         At present, market subclassification causes the diversification of styles and
   varieties of tables and chairs.
           At present, most lifting tables appear in the market are cylinder lifting tables,
   and cylinder lifting tables need lifting synchronization structures and locking
   mechanisms to achieve the purpose of stable lifting. However, a lifting table of
10 such structure is complicated in structure, high in machining cost, and long in
   production cycle.
   SUMMARY
           The technical problem to be solved in the utility model is how to provide a
   novel lifting table which is simple in structure, easy in machining, low in cost and
15 convenient in operation.
           In order to solve the above-mentioned technical problem, the utility model
   provides a novel lifting table, including a surface frame and a bottom frame,
   wherein the bottom of the surface frame is located in the bottom frame, inversed L
   shaped rails are arranged on two opposite side walls inside the bottom frame,
20 sliding blocks moving along the L-shaped rails are arranged on the surface frame,
   and a locking mechanism is arranged between the bottom frame and the surface
   frame. The structure is simple, and machining and production are convenient.
           Preferably, the locking mechanism comprises a hook and a stop block,
   wherein the hook is hinged to the inner side of the bottom frame, and the stop

                                                 2
   block is arranged at the bottom of the surface frame. The structure is simple, and
   the shaking of the table top is effectively prevented.
            Preferably, the bottom frame is a hollow box having no upper cover. The
   stability of the lifting table is guaranteed.
 5          Preferably, the surface frame comprises a table board and a bottom board,
   wherein brackets are arranged on both sides under the table board, the bottom
   board is located between the brackets, and the stop block is arranged on the
   bottom board; and the table board is located above the box having no upper cover,
   and the brackets and the bottom board are located in the box having no upper
10 cover.
           After adopting the above structure, the novel lifting table of the utility model
   has the following advantages as compared with the prior art:
            1. Compared with the cylinder lifting table, a lifting synchronization structure
   and a locking mechanism are omitted, the structure of a component is simplified,
15 and the production cost is saved;
           2. The L-shaped rails and the hook are used as lifting and locking
   mechanisms of the product, the machining is simpler, and the operation is more
   convenient; and
           3. The stability required by the table is satisfied.
20 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           Fig. 1 is a structural schematic diagram of a lifting state of the utility model;
   and
           Fig. 2 is a structural schematic diagram of a normal state of the utility model.

                                                3
           Legends: 1. box without upper cover; 2. inversed L-shaped rail; 3. sliding
   block; 4. hook; 5. stop block; 6. table board; 7. bottom board; 8. bracket.
           The utility model is further described below in combination with the
   accompanying drawings through embodiments.
 5         As shown in Figures 1-2, a novel lifting table provided by the present
   embodiment, including a surface frame and a bottom frame, wherein the bottom of
   the surface frame is located in the bottom frame, inversed L-shaped rails are
   arranged on two opposite side walls inside the bottom frame, sliding blocks
   moving along the L-shaped rails are arranged on the surface frame, and a locking
10 mechanism is arranged between the bottom frame and the surface frame.
           The locking mechanism comprises a hook 4 and a stop block 5, wherein the
   hook is 4 hinged to the inner side of the bottom frame, and the stop block 5 is
   arranged at the bottom of the surface frame.
           The bottom frame is a hollow box having no upper cover 1, the surface
15 frame comprises a table board 6 and a bottom board 7, wherein brackets 8 are
   arranged on both sides under the table board 6, the bottom board 7 is located
   between the brackets 8, and the stop block 5 is arranged on the bottom board 7;
   and the table board is 6 located above the box having no upper cover 1, and the
   brackets 8 and the bottom board 7 are located in the box having no upper cover 1.
20         Operating principles:
           1. Under a normal state, the sliding blocks 3 are located at the bottommost
   of the inverted L-shaped rails 2, at this moment, both the bottom board and the
   brackets 8 are arranged in the box having no upper cover 1; and

                                             4
       2. Under a lifting state, the sliding blocks 3 upward move to the topmost of
the inverted L-shaped rails 2, the hook 4 tightly hooks the stop block 5 to prevent
the table top from shaking, at this moment, both the bottom board 7 and brackets
8 are respectively exposed externally to the box having no upper cover 1.

                                               1
   Claims
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1. A novel lifting table, characterized by comprising: a surface frame and a bottom
   frame, wherein the bottom of the surface frame is located in the bottom frame,
 5 inversed L-shaped rails are arranged on two opposite side walls inside the bottom
   frame, sliding blocks moving along the L-shaped rails are arranged on the surface
   frame, and a locking mechanism is arranged between the bottom frame and the
   surface frame.
   2. The novel lifting table according to claim 1, characterized in that: the locking
10 mechanism comprises a hook and a stop block, wherein the hook is hinged to the
   inner side of the bottom frame, and the stop block is arranged at the bottom of the
   surface frame.
   3. The novel lifting table according to claim 1, characterized in that: the bottom
   frame is a hollow box having no upper cover.
15 4. The novel lifting table according to claim 3, characterized in that: the surface
   frame comprises a table board and a bottom board, wherein brackets are arranged
   on both sides under the table board, the bottom board is located between the
   brackets, and the stop block is arranged on the bottom board; and the table board
   is located above the box having no upper cover, and the brackets and the bottom
20 board are located in the box having no upper cover.

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E>

