                                      ABSTRACT
       A flexible-rate option and method of electronic trading are provided
which includes a negotiable premium and a corresponding rate-based strike
rate. At least one discount curve, and potentially also a forward curve are
determined. An adjustment factor for the financial instrument is determined.
The curve or curves are used to determine the adjustment factor to determine
the adjusted exercise price of an underlying with a standardized coupon as the
present value difference between the delivered financial instrument with a fixed
rate and a swap with the strike rate, at or near the time of option exercise.
Thus, the flexible-rate option of the present invention provides for a financial
instrument with rate-based strike prices (strike rates) to be exercised into an
underlying position in an equivalent standardized coupon financial instrument
with similar terms as the underlying swap that is defined by the option terms,
with a potentially different fixed rate and an exercise price.

                                 1/3
                     /    CURVE INPUTLDATA
                            DEPOSITT RATES,
                              SWAP RATES,
                             VPREAC.; ETC
                        CU RYE CONSTRUCTION
                          EORWARD CURVE,
                          D05COUNT FACTORS
                ADJUSTM NT FACTOR FOR SWAPS PVO1
                               N
                                        F   T
(STRIKE - FIXED RATE OF DEUVERED CONTRACT} * PV1 = EXERCISE PRICE
                                 FIG.1

                                         AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act, 1990
                                          ORIGINAL
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
  APPLICANT/S:                        Eris Innovations, LLC
  INVENTORS:                          RIDDLE Jr, Michael A
                                      WILSON Jr, Donald R
                                      WOLF, Kevin
                                      YU, Yuhau
 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE:                 Peter Maxwell and Associates
                                      Level 6
                                      60 Pitt Street
                                      SYDNEY NSW 2000
 INVENTION TITLE:                    FLEXIBLE-RATE, FINANCIAL OPTION AND
                                     METHOD OF TRADING
   DIVISIONAL OF:                    AU - 2016 200 788 - 8 February 2016
                                     which is a Divisional of:
                                     AU - 2012 255 058 - 18 May 2012
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best method
of performing it known to us:
                                              1
m:\docs\201 211'23\504834.doc

          FLEX1BI   EL-RATE, FINANCIAL OPTION AND METHOD OF TRADING
                                    RELATED APPLICATION
   [00011 This application is a Continuation-in-Part to U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
   13/068,781 titled "Rate-Negotiated, Standardized Coupon Financial Instrument", filed 19
   May 2011, the contents of which are incorporated herein by this reference.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
  [0002] The present invention relates to financial instruments, and to the electronic clearing
  and settling of such financial instruments.
                             BACKGROUND OF TfF INVENTION
  [00031 Varieties of different types of financial instruments are traded throughout the world.
  Examples include cash contracts and derivatives. A cash contract is an agreement to deliver
  the specified asset. A derivative is a financial instrument whose value is linked to the price of
 an underlying commodity, asset, rate, index, currency or the occurrence or magnitude of an
 event. Typical examples of derivatives include futures, forwards, options, swaps, and swap
 futures.
 [00041 Most commonly, a swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange sequences
 of cash flows for a set period of time. Usually, at the time the swap is initiated, at least one of
 these series of cash flows is benchmarked to an asset or an index that is variable, such as an
 interest rate, foreign exchange rate, equity price or commodity price. A swap may also be
used to exchange one security for another to change the maturity (bonds), quality of issues
(stocks or bonds) or to facilitate a change in investment objectives.
f[0005I A nomenclature has developed to describe the characteristics of certain swaps. A
"plain-vanilla' swap is one that only has the simplest and most common terms. A "spof'
starting swap is one where the economics of the swap start almost immediately upon two
parties entering into the swap. A "seasoned" swap is one that has been in existence for some
time, A "forward-starting" swap is one where the first calculation date (effective date) of the
swap does not commence until a designated point in the future. The parties to a forward
starting swap are still responsible for performing their obligations, but these obligations do
not start for a period of time after the parties have agreed to enter into the swap. An "off
market" swap is one that has a value other than zero.

   [0006] The first swap occurred between IBM and the World Bank in 1981. Although swaps
   have only been trading since the early 1980's, they have exploded in popularity. In 1987, the
   swaps market had a total notional value of $865.6 billion; by mid-2006, this figure exceeded
   $250 trillion. That is more than 15 times the size of the U.S. public equities market,
   {00071 The most common type of swap is an interest rate swap. In a plain-vanilla, interest
  rate swap, two parties agree to exchange periodic interest payments, typically when one
  payment is at a fixed rate and the other varies according to the performance of an underlying
  reference rate. Interest rate swaps are generally quoted in yield (rate) terms, especially for par
  swaps. Conceptually, an interest rate swap can be viewed as either a portfolio of forwards, or
  as a long (short) position in a fixed-rate bond coupled with a short (long) position in a
  floating-rate bond. Commonly, for U.S. dollar denominated interest rate swaps, the rate
  quoted is the fixed rate that the market expects will offset future 3-month London InterBank
  Offered Rate (LIBOR) (or whatever underlying reference rate is specified in the swap).
  (LIBOR refers to a daily reference rate based on the interest rates at which banks borrow
 unsecured funds from other banks in the London wholesale interbank market.) Cash then
 flows on a periodic basis between the buyer and the seller depending on the difference
 between the fixed rate and the floating rate. For example, one party (Party A) agrees to pay
 another party (Party B) a predetermined, fixed rate of interest on a notional amount on
 specific dates for a specified period of time; concurrently, Party B agrees to pay Party A
 floating interest rate on that same notional amount on the same specified dates for the same
 specified time period. Interest payments may be made annually, quarterly, monthly or at any
 other interval determined by the parties. Examples of other reference rates include the Tokyo
 Interbank Offered Rate (TIBOR), the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR), Euro
 OverNight Index Average (EONIA), and the like.
 [0008] Other than plain-vanilla interest rate swaps, float-for-float swaps (also known as basis
swaps) are widely used in the market place as hedging and investment tools. A float-float
swap involves the exchange of two floating payments with different reference rates between
counterparties. The frequency of the two floating payments may or may not be same. For
example, in a 3/6 LIBOR basis swap, one party (Party A) agrees to pay another party (Party
B) floating interest rate tied to 3-month LIBOR on a predetermined notional amount every
three months; concurrently, Party B agrees to pay Party A floating interest rate tied to 6
month LIBOR on that same notional amount every 6 months. In a Fed Funds/LIBOR basis
                                                 2)

   swap, one floating payment is determined by the Federal Funds Effective overnight rate over
   a certain period, and the other floating payment is determined by LIBOR The interest
   payments are commonly made every quarter in a Fed Funds/LIBOR basis swap. The Federal
   Funds Effective overnight rate is the interest rate at which a depository institution lends
   immediately available funds to another depository institution overnight.
   [0009] Another financial instrument commonly traded within the OTC market today is an
  option on a swap. An option on an interest rate swap is commonly referred to as a 'swaption',
  though a swaption could be based on any type of underlying swap. Traditional swaptions, as
  well as options on swap futures, herein collectively referred to as swaptions, grant their
  owner the right, but not the obligation to enter into the underlying swap (or swap futures)
  according to the terms of the option.
  [00010]         A payer swaption gives the owner of the swaption the right to enter into a
  swap, where the owner pays the fixed leg and receives the floating leg. A receiver swaption
 gives the owner of the swaption the right to enter into a swap, where the owner receives the
 fixed leg and pays the floating leg.
 [00011]         Swaption characteristics to which the counterparties must agree include price
 (in premium terms), the strike rate (rate-based strike price that represents the coupon value of
 the fixed leg of the underlying swap upon exercise of the option), time to maturity of the
 option, effective date of the underlying swap, tenor of the underlying swap, notional amount,
 and other customizable features of the underlying swap, such as payment schedule and
 amortization. It is worth noting how the strike rate differs from strikes of a traditional option
on futures or other assets, such as US treasury options or mid-curve Eurodollar options traded
on CME. The strike of a traditional option is the exercise price that the owner of the option
pays to assume the long or short position of the underlying upon exercise. In the current
convention of a swaption, the exercise price is effectively 0, and the strike rate is the fixed
coupon rate of the swap that the owner of the swaption will pay (payer swaption) or receive
(receiver swaption) upon exercise. The CME Group is located at 20 South Wacker Drive,
Chicago, Illinois 60606.
[000121          William Lawton is generally credited with inventing the swaption in 1983.
Lawton was the Head Trader for Fixed Income Derivatives at First Interstate Bank in Los
Angeles at that time. Lawton married the concept of an interest rate swap and an option, The
                                                3

   swaption was for a period of one year. First Interstate, for a premium, sold a Los Angeles
   based savings and loan the right to enter into a five-year interest rate swap to pay fixed versus
   three-month LIBOR on a notional amount of $5 million.                       See, for example,
   http://www.reference. com/browse/forward+ swap (accessed 7 April 2012).
   [000131         Standardized derivatives have traditionally been exchange-traded and
   centrally-cleared financial instruments; swaps, on the other hand, have traditionally been
  customized financial instruments that are traded in the over-the-counter (OTC) market. (The
  OTC market has historically referred to privately negotiated trades between two parties that
  are not centrally cleared (that is, uncleared)). Each party looks solely to the other party for
  performance and is thus exposed to the credit risk of the other party (often referred to as
  counterparty risk). Unlike financial instruments that are centrally cleared, there is no
  independent guarantor of performance. Uncleared financial instruments are often transacted
  pursuant to International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master documentation,
  The ISDA, 360 Madison Avenue, 16th Floor, New York, New Yok 1.0017 is an association
  formed by the privately negotiated derivatives market that represents participating parties.
  [000141         It is common for collateral to change hands as the value of an uncleared
 position changes. The party that has an unrealized loss on an open, uncleared position will
 post collateral with the party that has the unrealized gain in order to secure its liability. A
 common fonn of collateral is obligations of the United States Treasury (for example,
 Treasury Bonds, Notes, and Bills). When a Treasury obligation is posted as collateral, price
 changes in that financial instrument and coupon payments accrue to the owner of the
 collateral, that being the party posting the financial instrument. Cash may also be posted as
 collateral, in which case the party receiving the cash as collateral is obligated to pay interest
to the party posting the cash collateral at a rate set by agreement between the parties. When
the trade is unwound or expires, the party holding the collateral returns it to the other party,
and the trade is ultimately settled.
 [000151          Financial instruments traded on exchanges are distinctly different from
uncleared financial instruments. While the economics of the two may be similar, futures and
options on futures (futures options) are traded on and pursuant to the rules of an exchange.
Unlike uncleared financial instruments where the parties set the terms of the trade, exchange
listed futures and futures options are standardized. Such terms include notional amount, price
change per increment, expiration date, and how the financial instrument is settled (either cash
                                                 4

   settlement or physical delivery) at expiration. The only attributes that matter for parties to
   negotiate in futures, other than which party is the buyer and which party is the seller, is the
   number of financial instruments to be traded and the price.
   [000161          All futures and futures options are centrally cleared, with a central
   counterparty exchanging payments and collections between counterparties on a regular basis.
   This is quite different from uncleared financial instruments discussed above. Central clearing
   means that the counterparty risk is drastically reduced. The parties to a trade cease to be
   counterparties to each other; rather, each party faces a clearinghouse and looks solely to the
   clearinghouse for clearing trades, collecting and maintaining margin, regulating delivery, and
  reporting trading data.
   1000171         Traditional, uncleared OTC interest rate swaps can be divided into two
  categories: 'par swaps', where the initial value of the two legs (the payments that one party
  pays and receives) are equal; and 'off-market swaps', where one of the legs is more valuable
  than the other leg when measured in net present value (NPV) terms.
  [000181          In an uncleared par swap, counterparties often times do not exchange cash or
  securities at the time of the trade. As the value of the position deviates from par over the life
 of the uncleared par swap, counterparties exchange collateral according to the terms of their
 ISDA rules. In a cleared par swap, counterparties are typically required to post cash or other
 securities to a clearing agent at the time of the trade, to serve as 'initial margin', which is also
 known as 'performance bond'. The purpose of the initial margin is to ensure that if one
 counterparty defaults on the trade at a later time by failing to make required payments, the
 clearing agent can liquidate the position and have sufficient capital available (including the
 value of the liquidated swap position, and the liquidation value of original collateral posted as
 initial margin) to pay the non-defaulting counterparty the full amount due.
 [00019j          Typically, a trader who desires to enter into a par swap contacts a dealer bank
(dealer) to find out what fixed coupon rate the dealer will offer as par for a swap defined by
certain characteristics. These characteristics can include effective date, fixing date, tenor,
maturity date, index, fixed leg payment intervals, floating leg payment intervals, fixed leg
day count convention, floating leg day count convention, and holiday calendar, among others.
The par coupon rate is expressed in terms of percentage of notional value, and defines the
total annual payments due from fixed leg payer to the fixed leg receiver. For example, a par
                                                  5

   coupon rate of 3.005% on a swap with a notional value of $ 100 million implies that the fixed
   leg payer agrees to pay the fixed leg receiver approximately $3,005,000 per year for the tenor
   of the swap, with such annual amount being divided over the number of payments within the
  year. The most common fixed leg payment interval is semiannual, implying a payment
  amount of approximately $1,502,500 every six months in this example. The payment
  amounts above are designated as approximate, rather than exact, to account for the potential
  for variability due to specific day counts on the fixed leg.
  [000201          Before a par swap trade is consummated, the counterparties must agree on the
  'par coupon', which is the fixed rate coupon that implies an NPV of zero, considering the
  characteristics of the swap and forecasted future interest rates. Swap traders employ a variety
  of publicly-available and custom tools to calculate the appropriate par coupon rate, including
  market data services (for example, Bloomberg LP., 731 Lexington Avenue, New York, New
 York 10022 and Thomson Reuters, 3 Times Square, New York, New York 10036); analytical
 software packages (for example, the RiskVal RVFI Platform, available from RiskVal
 Financial Solutions, 120 West 31st Street, New York, New York 10001 and SuperDerivatives
 SDX Interest Rates, available from SuperDerivatives Inc., 545 Madison Avenue, 17th Floor,
 New York, New York 10022); and custom-constructed software and spreadsheets.
 [000211          A typical example of a tool used extensively by swap traders for calculating
 the par coupon of a given swap is the Bloomberg SWPM page. On the Bloomberg SWPM
 page, a swap trader can input the characteristics of a swap as described above, and the SWPM
page will examine current forecasted interest rates, calculate the fixed coupon rate that
 implies an NPV of zero (fixed leg present value (PV) minus floating leg PV equals zero), and
outputs this value to the user as the par coupon.
 [00022]          Similar to the par coupon in plain-vanilla swaps, counterparties who trade a
basis swap at par must agree on a 'par spread'. Par spread is the interest payment adding to
one floating leg such that the present value of this leg is equal to the present value of the
other floating leg at the time of trading.
[00023]          The term off-market swap is often used to refer to swaps that have a fair
market NPV other than zero at the time of the trade. This NPV must be agreed upon by the
counterparties for a trade to be consummated, and this negotiated NPV can be viewed as the
price of the trade. In an uncleared swap, the negotiated NPV is paid from one counterparty to
                                                 6

   the other counterparty at the time of the trade as an 'upfront payment', generally in cash. As
   yet, no clear standard market convention has emerged for central counterparties to
   accommodate off-market swaps for cleared interest rate swaps and cleared swap futures. One
   method, employed by International Derivatives Clearing Group, LLC (IDCG), 150 East 52nd
   Street, 5th Floor, New York, New York 10022, is to have the counterparties exchange upfront
  payments at the time of the trade, in a bilateral fashion without involving the central
   counterparty.
   [000241        Another method, employed by CME Group's CME Clearing for cleared
  interest rate swaps, is to have the upfront payment be exchanged between the counterparties
  through the central counterparty on the same day that the trade is marked in the favor of the
  counterparty making the upfront payment. This effectively nets out the payment amounts,
  except for any presumably small difference between the negotiated upfront payment amount
  and the actual deviation from fair market value determined by the central counterparty.
  [000251         A third method, employed by CME Clearing for clearing Eris Exchange
 futures, is to embed the negotiated upfront payment amount into the reference price of the
 trade itself, and then pay/collect variation margin between the parties only insofar as the fair
 market value of the future deviates from that trade price in the future. The Eris Exchange, 311
 South Wacker Drive, Suite 950, Chicago, Illinois 60606 is a futures exchange operating as
 Designated Contract Market under the jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading
 Commission (CFTC).
 [000261          To initiate a negotiation of price (in NPV terms) for a given off-market swap,
 the counterparties must first agree on the swap characteristics discussed above. In addition,
 the counterparties must also agree on the fixed rate coupon of the plain-vanilla swap (or
spread in the case of the basis swap), to provide sufficient data to evaluate the NPV of the
swap. Once the parties agree on a negotiated NPV, the trade is consummated. The following
table summarizes the way that NPV and Fixed Rate are agreed upon for plain-vanilla par
swaps and off-market swaps:
                                   Defined Prior to    Agreed upn during
                                   Negotiation         negotiation
               Swap               NPV = 0              Par Coupon (Fixed Rate
           Off-Market Swap        Fixed Rate           NPV (upfront pament)
                                                  7

   Since the spread in a basis swap can be treated as a special form of a coupon, the terms of
   coupon and spread will not be explicitly distinguished in the following discussion, Coupon is
   used herein to refer to both the fixed rate coupon in a plain-vanilla swap or spread in a basis
   swap.
   [00027]        For a number of reasons, the majority of trades in the interest rate swap market
   are negotiated in rate terms as par swaps, for which market participants demonstrate a clear
  preference. OTC par swaps typically do not involve an upfront exchange of cash between the
  counterparties. Many bilateral swaps executed under an ISDA Master Agreement do not
  require either counterparty to post initial margin (referred to as Independent Amount under a
  Credit Support Annex to an TSDA Master Agreement), and by definition a par swap has an
  NPV of zero at the time of the trade, requiring neither counterparty to post collateral to the
  other upon trade inception. Cleared par swap derivatives, on the other hand, require each
  counterparty to post initial margin to the central counterparty (CCP) shortly after trade
  execution.
  [000281        OTC off-market swaps require an upfront exchange of cash between the
 counterparties to offset the difference expected value of the future cash flows. Market
 participants properly recognize the implicit loan that is embedded in this transaction, in that
 the value exchanged from one counterpart is repaid in periodic installments to the other
 counterparty throughout the life of the swap, all else being equal. For trades that are not fully
 collateralized or cleared, to ensure that appropriate returns are earned for this lending, the
majority of OTC dealers employ internal funding models within their banks, to ensure that
 swap traders properly incorporate lending and borrowing rates on upfront payments for all
off-market swaps, and tear-up payments related to unwinds.
 [000291         Additionally, off-market swaps sometimes require accounting treatment
deemed to be unfavorable by swap counterparties. Certain firms use swaps only if they can
construct them in such a way as to obtain a specific application of hedge accounting
treatment under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) standards outlined in
FAS133. Obtaining this treatment ensures that the changes in value of the swap over the
course of the duration of the swap do not get reported through the income statement of the
firm, Off-market swaps with upfront payments may be disqualified from receiving the most
desirable form of accounting treatment. The FASB establishes standards of financial
accounting and reporting nongovernmental entities.
                                                 8

    [00030]       The factors related to off-market swaps -- especially upfront payments that
   amount to off-balance sheet loans that require funding and invoke unfavorable accounting
   treatment - are further reasons that explain the clear preference among market participants to
   trade OTC interest rate swaps as par swaps. The relative popularity of par swaps compared to
  off-market swaps may be largely attributable to the upfront payment issue, but also may be
  self-reinforcing over time. Given the maturity of the swap market and the amount of tools
  available to traders that focus analysis on par swaps, attempts to list swap-like products that
  do not trade as par swaps will be forced to overcome what will be referred to herein as the
  preference for par swaps issue.
  [000311         Traditional futures are defined by expiration dates that are generally monthly
  or quarterly, and trading volume tends to be concentrated in monthly or quarterly futures that
  mature within three months to two years of a given trading date. Today, a party can buy (go
  long) 10-Eurodollar futures that expire in six months, and on any trading day in that six
  month period, can re-enter the market and trade out of the initial position by scling (go short)
  10-Eurodollar futures that carry the same expiration date. Regardless of the futures price
 negotiated for each trade, the result of the two trades is that the trader will have no liability
 and carry no position, or be 'net flat' in futures industry parlance. The standardized nature of
 futures results in concentration of liquidity within the central limit order book, as multiple
 trading participants place bids and offers to trade a quarterly-expiring future at various prices.
 [00032]         The characteristics of cleared, interest rate swap derivatives (either interest
 rate swaps that are cleared or interest rate swap futures with flexible coupons) imply
 significantly different trading and liquidity characteristics from traditional futures. A spot
starting financial instrument traded today is a different financial instrument from the spot
starting financial instrument traded tomorrow. And each coupon rate that trades as par for a
given day and tenor is an independent financial instrument. Traditionally, the most
frequently-traded spot-starting swaps have so-called standard maturity dates or standard
tenors, traded in increments of one-year (for example, 2-year, 3-year, 5-year, 7-year, 10
year).
[000331          The granularization of financial instruments available for trading results in
relatively low levels of open interest occurring for each individual financial instrument. This
can add difficulty for a given trader to find willing buyers and sellers to act as counterparties
at reasonable prices. This is referred to herein as the granularization issue.
                                                 9

   [000341         Options on swaps may suffer from the granularization issue in two respects.
  First, trading options on swaps in strike rate terms using sub-basis point increments results in
  a proliferation of distinct financial instruments. Each financial instrument has relatively low
  open interest, which can add difficulty for a given trader looking to exit the position prior to
  expiration to find willing buyers and sellers to act as counterparties at reasonable prices.
  Second, a trader with a portfolio of multiple swaptions at distinct strike rates will receive
  positions upon exercise in underlying swaps at distinct fixed rates, thereby becoming subject
  to the granulariziation issue for the swaps themselves.
  [000351         Recognition of the granularization issue in swaps can be observed empirically
 in the recent migration toward more standardized coupons among traders of credit default
 swaps. Such migration is industry-led in response to some of the issues described above,
 rather          than         being         spurred        by         regulatory         mandate.
 http://www.markit.coni/cds/announcements/resource/ eds big bang.pdf (accessed 11 April
 2012). Other swap markets, including interest rate swaps, have been slower to move toward
 coupon standardization, but may do so in the future.
 [000361          Each financial instrument must have a value assigned to it for purposes of
 daily valuation, and in centrally-cleared markets, the clearinghouse assigns this value. To
 determine the value of a futures position, participants use price per future, then multiply that
value by the total number of futures held by a counterparty. To determine the value of a
swaps position, participants use NPV of remaining cash flows.
 [000371          Eris Exchange introduced Eris Exchange Interest Rate Swap Futures (Eris IR
Swap Futures) in August 2010. This financial instrument is regulated as a future, but contains
economic and date flexibility characteristics typically associated with interest rate swaps. For
example, Eris IR Swap Futures allow counterparties to initiate par swap positions by
negotiating the fixed coupon rate, as described above. The Eris IR Swap Futures allowed
participants to trade spot-starting financial instruments with effective dates t + 2 (two
business days after the trade date), that mature on any valid business day up to 30 years in the
future.
[000381          Starting in October 2011, Eris Exchange featured for trading forward-starting
Eris IR Swap Futures with effective dates up to ten years in the future, cleared by CME
Clearing. The daily mark-to-market valuation process for Eris IR Swap Futures results in
                                                 10

   cash flows that are similar to total cash flows that a participant would derive from an
   identically-structured, fully collateralized OTC interest rate swap, assuming both (the Eris IR
   Swap Future and the OTC interest rate swap) are valued daily using a common set of
   discount factors and forward rates. This flexibility contrasts with the characteristics of the
   CME Group's Chicago Board of Trade 5-year and 10-year Interest Rate Swap futures (CBOT
   Swap Futures). CBOT Swap Futures include a standard fixed rate of 4%, are only forward
   starting, with quarterly effective dates which are also expiration dates, and do not replicate
  the economics of an equivalent swap position. OTC swaps and Eris IR Swap Futures are
  outstanding until the maturity date, with no prior expiration. By allowing participants to trade
  interest rate swap derivatives in a futures form, Eris Exchange permits multiple
  counterparties to submit anonymous bids and offers in a central limit order book through an
  electronic trading platform.
  [000391          Typically, a trader who desires to enter into an option on an interest rate swap
  contacts a dealer to find out what fixed coupon rate represents the par rate for a forward
  starting swap matching the terms of the underlying swap of a swaption that they want to
  trade, which is then used as the basis to agree on a strike rate and price (premium) the dealer
 will offer for a swaption defined by certain characteristics. The strike rate may be above or
 below the par rate for the underlying, The characteristics of the option include payer/receiver,
 time to maturity and notional amount. The characteristics of the underlying swap include
 effective date, fixing date, tenor, maturity date, index, fixed leg payment intervals, floating
 leg payment intervals, fixed leg day count convention, floating leg day count convention, and
 holiday calendar, among others. The strike rate is expressed in terms of percentage of
 notional value of the underlying swap, and defines the total annual payments due from fixed
 leg payer to the fixed leg receiver following option exercise.
 [000401          In practice, counterpartics often first agree on which fixed coupon rate
currently reflects the par rate of the underlying forward starting swap, then agree on strike
rate, then proceed to negotiate the price (in premium) terms that the option buyer will pay to
the option seller based on the strike rate. Alternatively, a trader may have strike in mind and
may negotiate the price. The strike rate of the option may be equivalent to the par rate of the
underlying swap, or it may be above or below. Options in which the strike rate is equivalent
to the par rate of the underlying swap are referred to as 'at-the-money-forward'. It is common
for OTC swaption market participants to speak in terms of the relationship of a strike rate to
                                                 iI

   the par rate of the underlying spot. Because the par rate of the underlying forward starting
   swap is always moving, the at-the-money strike rate is also always changing. Terms of a
   swaption trade may call for exchanging premium at the time of the trade (generally referred
   to as 'upfront premium'), or exchanging premium at the termination date of the option
   (generally referred to as 'deferred premium'),
   [000411         Historical swaption market convention involves negotiation of the strike in
  rate terms with minimum increments of one basis point or less (herein referred to as sub-basis
  point increments), most commonly quarters of a basis point. For example, counterparties
  agreeing to trade a swaption with financial instruments offered in increments of quarters of a
  basis point may agree on a strike of 2.0000%, 2.0025%, or 2.0050%. Given the maturity of
  the swaption market and the entrenched convention of trading in strike rates (rate-based strike
  prices) with the characteristics described above, attempts to promote trading of swaptions
  with strike prices denominated in anything other than fixed rate will be forced to overcome
  what will be referred to herein as the preference for rate-based strike prices issue.
  [00042]          While holding open option positions, options traders typically engage in the
 practice of delta hedging to manage risk. Delta is measure of the change in value of an option
 with respect to changes in the value of the underlying. To engage in delta hedging, options
 traders can buy and sell a variety of financial instruments correlated to the value of the
 option. Due to the implicitly high correlation with the option, a preferred choice is to buy and
 sell the underlying itself, provided that sufficient liquidity exists in that financial instrument
 for it to be an efficient (cost-effective) delta hedging financial instrument. For example, a
 trader that uses delta hedging to manage risk of a long call option position that matures in
 April, 2012 for May-delivered Corn Futures will generally buy and sell May Corn Futures
multiple times as the value of the futures and options change throughout the holding period.
 [00043]          In choosing which financial instrument to use for delta hedging purposes,
traders look for a financial instrument that combines two elements. First, they look for a
financial instrument that is an effective hedge, meaning that the value of the financial
instrument is highly correlated to the value of the option. Second, they look for a financial
instrument that is highly liquid. Delta hedging requires options traders to trade multiple times
during the option holding period, and to cross the bid-ask spread of the delta hedge financial
instrument each time. Because of this, achieving maximum efficiency (minimizing cost)
implies choosing a delta hedge financial instrument with a sufficiently large number of
                                                 12

  participants willing to trade sufficient sizes of buy and sell orders at bid-ask spreads as
  narrow as possible.
   [00044]        Options traders are frequently required to make trade-offs between these two
  considerations in selecting a proper delta hedging financial instrument. For example, the May
  Corn Future in the example above is the most effective hedge financial instrument. However,
  the trader may find that a less effective hedge financial instrument, such as the July Corn
  Future, may be more attractive at certain points in time because it is more highly liquid. The
  July Corn Future is relatively less effective as a hedge financial instrument because prices of
  July Corn Future are likely correlated with the May Corn Future, but to a lesser degree than
  the May Corn Future itself. The ideal financial instrument for delta hedging is one that is both
  a highly effective hedge and is also highly liquid.
  [00045]         The relative quality of financial instruments available for delta hedging often
 has a direct impact on the liquidity of options markets themselves. Options products where
 delta hedging financial instruments are relatively ineffective and/or illiquid suffer from a
 shortage of available bids and offers in sufficient size and price quality to generate high
 trading volume, compared with otherwise-equal options with higher quality delta hedging
 opportunities. The relationship between options liquidity and quality of delta hedging
 financial instruments is straightforward: Options traders are more willing to engage in the
 higher risks associated with trading an option in larger size and more efficient prices
 (narrower bid/ask spread) as the quality increases of financial instruments available for them
 to manage those risks.
 [000461         Due to the tradeoff between hedge effectiveness and liquidity, OTC swaptions
traders often use spot-starting par swaps to practice delta hedging for swaptions. This is done,
even though there are multiple other financial instruments available that would be more
 effective hedges; each of the alternatives with higher correlations to the value of the option
usually has insufficient liquidity to be used as an efficient delta hedge financial instrument.
t00471           For example, consider a swaption trader who on I May 2012 sells (writes) a
receiver option with maturity date 18 June 2012 on an underlying plain-vanilla interest rate
swap with effective date 20 June 2012, 10-year tenor, and strike of 2.0025%. The most
effective hedge financial instrument available for delta hedging purposes would be a swap
with terms that match the underlying swap of the option, including effective date, maturity
                                                 13

   date and coupon rate. In this example with a one swaption portfolio, the swaption trader
   would unambiguously prefer to use this swap for delta hedging if sufficient liquidity existed
   in this swap. Unfortunately, the relative lack of liquidity for this specific financial instrument
  (or any forward-starting interest rate swap with a specific coupon) strongly incents swaptions
  traders to use other financial instruments for delta hedging.
   [000481        Another alternative fbr delta hedging that is available in this example is a
  forward-starting swap, aligning with the effective date and maturity date of the underlying
  swap, but with a coupon value that reflects the par value at the time of the swap trade, which
  almost certainly will deviate from the strike rate of the swaption. These markets also often
  lack sufficient liquidity to provide efficient delta hedging -- the bid/ask spread of these
  financial instruments is almost invariably significantly wider than the bid/ask spread for
  standard maturity spot-starting par swaps. This drives swaptions traders often to use for delta
  hedging even less effective financial instruments that deviate from the underlying swap in
 both dates and coupons. Further potential alternatives include spot-starting par swaps, and US
 Treasury Bonds and Notes.
  [000491         Furthermore, traders of OTC swaptions using the par coupon trading
 convention described above naturally accumulate portfolios of multiple options positions that
 are substantially similar in terms of option expiration date, effective date and tenor of
 underlying swaps, but with distinct strike rate levels. For example, an options trader may
 accumulate open positions in three receiver options, each maturing 18 June 2012 for an
 underlying plain-vanilla interest rate swap with a tenor of ten years, effective date of 20 June
 2012, but with three distinct strike rates of 2.0025%, 2.5000%, and 2.6000%. Perfectly
 effective delta hedging would require the trader to establish positions in three separate
underlying swaps, each of which today is relatively illiquid. Here the granularization issue is
at play, as the proliferation of fixed rate swaps available for trading makes it unlikely that
sufficient liquidity for efficient delta hedging purposes will be generated in any market for a
swap with a single specific fixed rate coupon.
 [000501         These    consequences     of the granularization       issue on delta       hedging
effectiveness, taken together with the current lack of liquidity in the specific swaps that
underlie many swaptions (which forces options traders to use less effective delta hedging
financial instruments with more liquidity), comprise what will herein be referred to as the
delta hedging liquidity issue, from which many of today's swaptions markets suffer.
                                                 14

   [000511        While a large proportion of trading of swaps and options on swaps
  (particularly for interest rate swaps and credit default swaps) has traditionally been uncleared,
  recently there has been pressure to migrate swaps to central clearing, including mandates set
  forth in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank
  Act") (Pub.L. 111-203, H.R. 4173) signed into law by President Obama on 21 July 2010. As
  a result of political pressure for greater transparency of uncleared financial instruments, the
  Dodd-Frank Act was passed into law in the wake of the 2008/2009 financial crisis. During
  the 2008/2009 financial crisis, many participants in uncleared financial instruments faced
  counterparties that were unable to meet their obligations. Market forces, including credit
 concerns related to European sovereign debt, have caused many market participants to pursue
 proactively clearing of interest rate swaps. Additionally, there are certain elements of Basel
 III that provide market participants with economic incentives to clear interest rate swaps.
 Basel III is a global regulatory standard on bank capital adequacy, stress testing and market
 liquidity risk agreed upon by the members of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in
 2010-11     The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is a committee of banking
 supervisory authorities that was established by the central bank governors of Belgium,
 Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and
 the United States, in 1974.
 [000521          OTC interest rate swaptions experienced strong growth in trading volumes in
the years leading up to 2008; however, anecdotal evidence indicates that traded volumes
dropped dramatically in 2008 and have yet to grow back to pre-2008 levels.
 1000531         As of April 2012, major derivatives clearing houses CME Clearing and
London Clearing House (LCH) did not provide CCP services for options on interest rate
swaps or options on credit default swaps; however, both CME Clearing and LCH have
publicly announced that CCP support for options on swaps is in their upcoming new
offerings.     http://www.thejavelin.com       /recent-press/swapclear-cme-and-javelin-on-swap
clearing (accessed I1 April 2012). A centrally-cleared version of an OTC swaption is likely
to be viewed as superior to an uncleared OTC swaption by many market participants,
especially traders who are held back from trading uncleared OTC swaptions by concerns
about counterparty credit risk and/or opaqueness in the daily mark-to-market pricing process
for uncleared trades. To the extent that a CCP mimics the existing OTC interest rate swaption
conventions allowing for trading of par rate options negotiated in rates of minimum price
                                                  15

  increments at or near one-quarter of a basis point, and with each strike rate delivering into a
  distinct swap with a different coupon rate, a cleared option with physical delivery will
  continue to suffer from the granularization issue and the delta hedging liquidity issue. If the
  majority of interest rate swaps become cleared, it will be important (and perhaps mandated)
  for market participants to also clear swaptions in order reduce counterparty risk and to
  maximize economic efficiency associated with posting initial margins.
  [000541        As described above, existing swap derivatives financial instruments carry
  certain advantages and disadvantages in terms of structure. Overcoming the trade-offs that
  have traditionally been inherent in trading par swaps, off-market swaps, and futures in this
  new, government regulated environment has proven to be a significant challenge. At first
  glance, it would seem that the solution to these issues could all be addressed through the
 creation of a future for forward-starting swaps in a standardized coupon. By listing futures
 that are forward-starting and with a standardized coupon, the effects of the granularization
 issue are mitigated. And futures need not impose upfront payments, thus avoiding the upfront
 payment issue,
 [000551         The Chicago Board of Trade's 10-Year Interest Rate Swap Futures attempts to
 list futures products with the economics of forward-starting swaps based on a standardize
 coupon.      See     http://www.cmegroup.com/trading/interest-rates/files/IR 145 SwapFC _lo
 res web.pdf (accessed 17 May 2011). However, after multiple years of existence, these 10
 Year Interest Rate Swap Futures trade at daily volume levels that are low relative to the
volume of the interest rate swaps market, suggesting that market has failed to adopt them as
true substitutes for interest rate swaps. Open interest for this future, as of 17 May 2011, was
reported                           by                         CM                          Group
(http://www.cmegroup.com/daily bulletin/preliminary_ voi/VOIREPORT,pdf, accessed              17
May 2011) to be 11,694 futures, which equates to $1.69 billion of notional value, compared
to $364 trillion dollars of notional value of open interest for interest rate derivatives that
ISDA      estimated     in   March,    2011    (http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110329
709826.html, accessed 17 May 2011), or 0.0003%.
[000561         Assessing the potential success or even explaining the lack of success of
futures is not straightforward, as a thriving futures market requires the confluence of a large
number of factors, such as futures design, distribution, technology, liquidity, and
macroeconomic forces. Issues related to the design of the CBOT Swap Future that may
                                                16

   contribute to its lack of commercial success include, the CB(OT Swap Future only allows
   traders to transact a single coupon rate, imposing rigid standardization to minimize the
   granularization issue. The rate was 6.0% for the CBOT Swap Futures that expired fom
   inception until December 2009, and has been set by the exchange at 4.0% since that time. In
   addition, the CBOT Swap Future is "traded in price and quoted in points", as per the CBOT
  web site, rather than the par coupon or NPV protocols more familiar to the swap market.
  http://www.cmegroup.com/trading/interest-rates/files/IR145_SwapFC_lo-res-web.pdf
  (accessed 17 May 2011).
  f00057]         Another issue related to the design of the CBOT Swap Future that may
  contribute to its lack of commercial success is, the CBOT Swap Future does not seek to
  mimic the economics of a swap over the entire maturity of the swap: the CBOT Swap Future
  expires and is cash-settled at the conclusion of the forward-period of the swap. For example,
  the September 2011 CBOT 10-year Interest Rate Swap Future expires 19 September 2011, at
  which point the position is settled by the clearinghouse and open interest ceases to exist. A
  comparable OTC interest rate swap implies that the forward-period ends in September 2011,
 but the swap itself does not mature until September 2021. In addition, the CBOT Swap
 Future uses simple present value analysis, rather than adhering to swap convention of
 discounting cash flows at LIBOR or overnight indexed swap (OIS) rates.
 [O0058]          Thus, a new swaption, and the electronic clearing and settling of such
 swaption, based on an underlying with sufficient liquidity to overcome the delta hedging
 liquidity issue would be desirable. In addition, a new swaption, and the electronic clearing
 and settling of such swaption, offering a limited quantity of standardized strike rate levels
 would mitigate the granularization issue. In addition, a new swaption, and the electronic
 clearing and settling of such swaption, addressing the preference for rate-based strike prices
 issue would present a better alternative than currently available swaption financial
 instruments. Additionally, providing independent central counter-party clearing and
 settlement services for a new swaption with these characteristics would also mitigate two
other drawbacks of the current OTC market: counterparty credit risk and lack of independent
valuation of swaption portfolios,
                              SU MMARY OF TIE INVENTION
1000591          In one aspect, a flexible-rate option and method of trading in accordance with
the principles of the present invention allows for trading of a swaption (option on swap or
                                                 17

   option on swap future) product that mitigates the granularization issue that affects traditional
  OTC swaptions. In one aspect, a flexible-rate option and method of trading in accordance
  with the principles of the present invention addresses the preference for rate-based strike
  prices issue. In one aspect, a flexible-rate option and method of trading in accordance with
  the principles of the present invention has a greater opportunity to overcome the delta
  hedging liquidity issue by providing the market a common underlying across multiple strike
  rate levels. This may further enhance liquidity in these underlying benchmark financial
  instruments, and thus reinforce their attractiveness as desirable trading vehicles for delta
  hedging.
  [00060]          In accordance with the principles of the present invention, a flexible-rate
 option and method of electronic trading are provided. The flexible-rate option includes a
 negotiable premium and a corresponding rate-based strike rate. At least one discount curve,
 and potentially also a forward curve are determined, An adjustment factor for the financial
 instrument is determined. The curve or curves are used to determine the adjustment factor to
 determine the adjusted exercise price of an underlying with a standardized coupon as the
 present value difference between the delivered financial instrument with a fixed rate and a
 swap with the strike rate, at or near the time of option exercise. Thus, the flexible-rate option
 of the present invention provides for a financial instrument with rate-based strike prices
 (strike rates) to be exercised into an underlying position in an equivalent standardized coupon
 financial instrument with similar terms as the underlying swap that is defined by the option
terms, with a potentially different fixed rate and an exercise price.
 [000611          This Summary introduces concepts in a simplified form that are further
described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key
features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an
aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[000621           Figure 1 is a flow-chart setting forth an example for determining the adjusted
exercise price of an interest rate swap delivered upon exercise of an option, using an example
adjustment factor.
                                                  18

   [000631          Figure 2 is a flow-chart setting forth an example for determining the adjusted
  exercise price of an interest rate swap delivered upon exercise of an option, using another
  example adjustment factor.
   [000641         Figure 3 is a non-limiting example of a hardware infrastructure that can be
  used to run a system that implements electronic trading of a flexible-rate financial option of
  the present invention.
               DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF . PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
  [000651          While an exemplary embodiment of the invention illustrated and described
  herein is planned to be listed for trading on Eris Exchange, it will be appreciated that the
 present invention is not so limited and can be traded on other exchanges or trading platforms,
 regardless of whether located in the United States or abroad, traded through a private
 negotiation, traded in currencies other than United States dollars or traded as a futures option
 or as a cleared swap option or other type of financial instrument, based on financial
 instruments indexed to indices other than LIBOR, traded with premiums that are paid up
 front or deferred. When used herein, the terms exchange and trading platform refer broadly to
 a marketplace in which securities, commodities, derivatives and other financial instruments
 are traded, and includes but is not necessarily limited to designated contract markets, exempt
 boards of trade, designated clearing organizations, securities exchanges, swap execution
 facilities, electronic communications networks, and the like.
 [00066]           One potential method to improve the volume and liquidity in the existing
 swaption market would be to convince traders to transact options in standardized fixed-rate
strike levels. For example, instead of trading otherwise identical swaptions in flexible par rate
strikes, a centralized marketplace or exchange could offer a swap with a limited set of
standard strike rate levels. This standardization would mitigate the granularization issue by
concentrating options trading into a limited number of strike rate levels, but would
unfortunately still deliver into distinct financial instruments upon the exercise of options with
distinct strike rates. This standardization would also likely fail to overcome the delta hedging
liquidity issue unless the underlying swaps carrying the standardized fixed rate coupon value
itself were enhanced in ways that generated additional liquidity.
[000671           In October 2011, Eris Exchange featured for trading forward-starting Eris IR
Swap Futures with standardized dates based on the International Monetary Market (IMM)
                                                  19

    calendar, and standardized, fixed rate coupons. For example, in April 2012 the so-called Eris
   Exchange IMM-dated benchmark futures included the following three plain-vanilla interest
   rate swap futures, with price negotiated in NPV:
                .   June IMM 2-year: 2 year tenor, effective date 06/20/2012, maturity date
                    06/20/2014, coupon of 0.500%.
               " June IMM 5-year: 5 year tenor, effective date 06/20/2012, maturity date
                    06/20/2017, coupon of 1.250%.
               .   June IMM 10-year: 10 year tenor, effective date 06/20/2012, maturity date
                   06/20/2017, coupon of 2.000%.
   [000681         As of April 2012, Eris Exchange IMM-dated benchmark futures have attracted
  active participation in the form of continuous quoting of bids and offers from multiple
  liquidity providers, in notional values that range from $50,000,000 to $300,000,000 during
  most trading days. Volumes are greater than $225,000,000 in notional value. This relatively
  small success in developing an initial foundation of liquidity is noteworthy in that these
  futures attempt to concentrate liquidity away from par rate-based swap derivative trading and
  overcome the preference for par swaps issue.
  [00069)          If the Eris Exchange IMM-dated benchmark futures increase in liquidity
 through some combination of increased amount of participants, larger sizes of bids and
 offers, tighter bid ask spreads, and more trading and open interest, the Eris Exchange IMM
 dated benchmark futures would become a viable alternative as an underlying of a swaption
 that overcomes the delta hedging liquidity issue and the granularization issue. In listing an
 option on a liquid June IMM 2-year interest rate swap future, Eris Exchange could choose to
 list a single strike of 'par', or could list multiple strike rates denominated in NPV (for
 example, NPV strike rates could be -$10,000, -$5000, $0, $5000, $10000). Either
 construction, however, fails to mitigate the preference for rate-based strike prices issue.
 Setting strikes in NPV or price terms changes the risk that is being traded given the non
linear relationship between rates and NPV levels over time.
 [000701          In 2009, in an attempt to attract trading volume from the OTC swaption
market, CBOT listed for trading options on the CBOT Swap Future. These futures attempted
to overcome the delta hedging liquidity issue by using the CBOT Swap Future products as
                                                20

   underlying financial instruments. The financial instrument allows traders to transact at strike
   levels denominated in futures price terms, indexed to 100. As of April 2012, options on
   CBOT swap futures remain listed and available for trading, but no options on CBOT swap
  futures    have    traded   since   introduction.    http://www.cmegroup.com/trading/interest
  rates/options-open-interest/ main.html (accessed I1 April 2012). Once again, issues related to
  the design of the Option on CBOT Swap Future that may contribute to its lack of commercial
  success include the lack of viability of the design of the underlying swap future, lack of
  liquidity of the underlying swap future and lack of mitigating the preference for rate-based
  strike prices issue.
  [00071]          What is thus desirable would be to combine the advantages of an option like
 the potential Eris Exchange option described above, with a limited number of strike rate
  levels where multiple strike rates deliver into a common underlying financial instrument upon
 exercise, thereby substantially mitigating the granularization issue and avoiding the delta
 hedging liquidity issue, but in a form that also overcomes the preference for rate-based strike
 prices issue.
 1000721          The present invention provides a mechanism whereby a financial option with a
 rate-based strike price can be exercised into an underlying position in a financial instrument
 with all of the same terms other than a potentially different fixed rate. The fixed rate of the
 delivered underlying will often be different from the negotiated strike rate, and an exercise
price will be determined accordingly to account for the present value difference between a
swap with the fixed rate and a swap with the negotiated strike rate, In accordance with the
principles of the present invention, a flexible-rate, financial option and method of electronic
trading that exercise into a standardized coupon financial instrument at an exercise price and
method of trading are provided. This invention allows for delivery of an underlying that has
one term that differs (the fixed rate) from the underlying par financial instrument that would
have been delivered (ite, fixed rate equals the option strike rate) by assigning an exercise
price so that the two financial instruments are equivalent and have equivalent value. When
used herein, the term equivalent means nearly equal in amount, value, measure, force, effect,
significance, etc. and encompasses an financial instrument with a different coupon rate, at an
adjusted price, having nearly-equivalent but economically satisfactory position. When used in
conjunction with an option such as, for example, the option on Eris Exchange IMM-dated
benchmark futures described above, employing the present invention allows the listing of
                                                 21

  rate-based strike prices for options. Such options would be executed at multiple strike rate
  levels but delivered upon exercise into a common underlying financial istruaent with a
  single coupon rate - by determining an appropriate exercise price according to the methods
  described below. The resulting option mitigates the granularization issue and delay hedging
 liquidity issue through delivery of options at various strike rate levels into a single underlying
 fmancial instnknent with a single fixed rate. This also addresses the preference for rate-based
 strike prices issue through its use of the present invention,
 [0003]           Initially, a general example for determining the exercise priem for the
 underlying is described. Curve input data such as for example deposit rates, swap rates,
 spreads, Treasury rates, risk free leading rates, forward rate agreement rates, interest rate
 futures prices, etc are input into a curve constructor which generates a discount curve and a
 forward curve, The net present value (NPV) of the plain-vanilla interest rate swap can be
 witten as the differetce between the present value of fixed coupon payments and floating
 coupon payments. The price for a swap with a fixed coupon e is:
                          N                   N
         NPV(c   t)=      YY      DF( Tj)   - >Lft,T)r, zP(t,          )
                                                                            Equation I
         where,
                       t,% ) is the forward rate at t , relevant to the floating payment at Tu;
                  DPMt-s is the discount factor from t to s , t :5!; ; and
                 to.hi       are the year fractions of the accual period for fixed and floating
                           payments respectively.
Equation I represents the genedc formula for valuing an interest rate swap. Extensions of this
formula can be used to determine the appropriate exercise prices that compensate for the
value differemial of two swaps with all of the same terms other than the fixed rate. The
method to calculate the exercise price utilizes quantities commonly referred to as PVOI and
DVOL
[000741         The discout= rates and forward rates may or may not be derived from the same
yield curve, For example, when modeling plain-vanilla interest rate swaps before 2007, the
market practice was to use a LIBOR curve to derive both rates; after the financial crisis, the
growing consensus has migrated to use of the OIS curve to derive discount rates, and a
                                                    22

   LfBOR curve to calculate the forward rates. Various assumptions and curve construction
   methodology do not affect the application of the present invention.
   (0075]          In accordance with the principles of the present invention, at or near the time
  of exercise of the option, the discount curve can be used to determine the proper exercise
  price at which the underlying financial instrument will be delivered Upon option exercise,
  using for example Equation 3 below. This addresses the present value difference between the ,
  delivered financial instnment with the fixed rate and one with the option strike rate.
  [00076]         Denoting the sumrnation =                   by AW, Aft) is called the annuity of
  the swap, also known as present value of a basis point (PVO1), and the PVOI is also referred
  to as the 'value of a fixed rate basis point' and it represents the change in the value of a swap
  for a one basis point change in the fixed rare The PVOI is determined by the discount
  (funding) carve. Note that the PVOI will be the same for all swaps with the same terms other
 than the fixed rate. Por two swaps that have the same characteristics other than fixed rate
 floating leg index, state date, payment schedules, day count, and holiday convendons - de
 difference in NPV iVs
          NPV(c, t)- NPV(c.0= (c-         c,)A(t)     Equation 2
 [000171          Based on this observation, an embodiment of a flcxible-ratc financial option
 and method of trading can be provided. Referring to Figure 1, a flow-chart is seen setting
 forth an example that iliustrates bow to determine the exercise price for an underlying that is
 delivered as the result of an option position using PVOI as an adjustent factor. Let Cz be a
fixed rate for a swap with a fixed rate that matches the option strike rate. At any point
following the consummation of the trade through agreement of price in premium tens, and
subsequent exercise of the option into its underlying swap, a swap with a given coupon           c
can be assigned an exercise price equal to the difference in present values of a swap with a
coupon     02 and a swap with a coupon c This exerise price is detesaed as follows:
          (cz - c )z   I' DF(t T)
                                       = Exercise Price, Equation 3
[00078]          In another embodiment of the present invention, the sensitivity of a swap with
respect to the change in the par swap rate, can be used to compute the exercise price, as
                                                 23

   shown in Figure 2. The sensitivity is often referred to as "DVO!1"     The DV)1 represents the
  change in the value of a swap for a one basis point parallel shift in the swap curve. This is
  also referred to as the 'curve 'Ol'. Different methodologies are employed in the market to
  determine DVOIs, This application is intended to include all variants. Note that the DVOI of
  swaps with the same terms other than fixed rate will have different DVI levels, In practice,
  DV01 and PVOI arc often used interchangeable, and their values are close for par swap.
  Tberefore, the exercise price can be determined or approximated by a similar process to the
  previous embodiment other than the use of the DVO I rather than PVOI:
          (c2 - c)DVDl = Exercise Price. Equation 4
  (00079]         The NPV of the basis swap can be written as the difference between the
 present value of two legs of floating coupon payments. The price for a swap with a fixed
 coupon e is:
         NPV(c t)=>         (    t T,)) 2 DF(rJ-) &          2    T      rtP   rfj.
                                                                                        Equation
         5
         where,
                  11 Ct TAt        42 (t. ri(2. ) ) are the rates at t determined by two forward
                        curves, relevant to the floating payments at rL Tv repctively;
                 DF(ts) is the discount factor fom t t              ; md
                 Tt'     are the year fractions of the accrnal periods of the two floating
                        payments respectively.
 [000801 The coupon in a basis swap ftA indicates the difference between the two forward
curves. Similar to the plain-vaniHlaswaps, while a coupon is negotiated between two parties,
the forward curves and discount curve are determined. Then a net present value such as for
example the above NPV Equation 4 can be used or approximated to generate an adjustment
factor to determine the appropriate adjusted price for an otherwise-equivalent swap with a
different coupon.
100081)          The saue methods of determining the fixed-coupon swap price from a
negotiated coupon that apply to plain-vanilla swaps can be applied to basis swaps as well. For
                                                24

                                           .14
   example, denoting the summation P             -            by At), for two swaps that have the
   same characteristics    - floating leg indices, start date, payment schedules, day count, and
   holiday conventions - the difference in NPV is:
           NPV(     0 - NPV(cC0 = Cr - c)A            .     Equation 6
   [00082]         An option on a basis swap can be constructed such that a buyer has the right to
  pay one of the floating legs with a pre-defined fixed spread over that leg. The option also can
  be constructed so that the purchaser has the right to receive one of the floating legs with a
  pre-defined fixed spread over that leg. The prt-detennined fixed spread over one of the
  floating legs is the strike of the option.
  [00083]         Delivery would occur in an underlying basis swap with a fixed spread over
  one of the floating legs which is equivalent to the option strike, The exercise price is
  effectively 0 as this instrument is delivered at par,
  (00084}         The present invention provides a mechanism whereby an option on a basis
 swap with a spread based strike can be        excisedd into a basis swap with a potentially different
 spread with an appropriate exercise price. Similar to the case of swaptions, this mechanism
 mitigates the granulariZtion issue and delta hedging liquidity issue through delivery of
 options ar various strike spread level into a single underlying basis swap with a single fixed
 spread.. An extension of Equation 6 can be utilized to determine the present value difference
 bctwen the basis swap with a certain strike spread and the delivered basis swap that may
 have a different fixed spread. This present value difference will determine the exercise price
 of the option. The exercise price can be determined using either the PVI        or the DVOL1,
 [00085]         Generally, the profit and loss of a cleared swap comes only from the price
change, and, thus, modifying the price process by adding or subtracting a constant does not
affect the nature of the swap. Likewise, in another embodiment in accordance with the
present invention, the exercise price can be adjusted by the same cofistant.
1000861          Counterparries negotiate the price in premium terms for an option product
with a specific strike rate. Multiple strike rate levels for trading are available, each of which
results in delivery of a common underlying financial instrment. There is an analogous
                                                  2$

 receiver option for each payer option. Upon exercise of the option, the exercise price of the
 delivered financial instrument is determined by the present value difference between the
 delivered financial instrument with the fixed rate and the financial instrument with the option
 strike rate in accordance with either Equation 3 or 4 as described above. A preferred
 implementation is for the price adjustment to occur upon exercise of option; while this
 adjustment can be performed at any time after the trade is consummated, however,
 adjustment immediately prior to or concurrent with exercise is currently believed to represent
 increased commercial viability.
 [000871         Although the products to be listed by Eris Exchange in accordance with the
principles of the present invention will likely have effective dates on quarterly International
Monetary Market (IMM) dates, other embodiments are possible. The present invention can be
used with American-style options (options that may be exercised at any time on or before the
expiry date) or European-style options (options that may only be exercised at the expiry date
of the options).
 100088]         The following are non-limiting examples of exercising a flexible-rate option
into a standardized coupon financial instrument with an exercise price. Unless specified
otherwise, the exercise price is equal to the present value difference between a swap with the
strike rate and the delivered swap with a different fixed rate. All exercise prices are
determined from the perspective of the fixed rate payer.
Example 1
[00089]         This example shows that a flexible-rate option can be exercised into a
standardized coupon financial instrument using PV01 to determine the exercise price, as
described above in Equation 3. This example is a payer option.
[00090]         Consider a forward staring 2-year LIBOR interest rate swap with notional
amount of $1,000,000. Assume that the discounting curve is an OIS curve, and the forward
curve is a LIBOR curve, though construction of a forward curve may not be necessary for the
application of the invention in this example. A set of LIBOR swap rates, Eurodollar rates,
forward rate agreement rates, LIBOR rates, Treasury rates and swap spreads, etc. are used to
construct the OIS curve and LIBOR curve. A list for multiple options based on this
underlying swap with a common coupon value, might be:
                                               26

       Listed Payer (Receiver) Option for          Underlying Financial Instrument
       Trading Today (price negotiated in          Delivered Upon Exercise
       premium)
       Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of   06/20/2012 Effective Date, 2 year tenor,
       1.750% on a par financial instrument        2.000% coupon, invention-determined
       of 2 years tenor, option expiration         exercise price
       06115/2012
       Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of 06/20/2012 Effective Date, 2 year tenor,
       1.875% on a par financial instrument       2.000% coupon, invention-determined
      of 2 years tenor, option expiration         exercise price
      06/15/2012
      Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of   06/20/2012 Effective Date, 2 year tenor,
      2.000% on a par financial instrument        2.000% coupon, invention-determined
      of 2 years tenor, option expiration         exercise price
      06/15/2012
      Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of   06/20/2012 Effective Date, 2 year tenor,
      2,250% on a par financial instrument        2.000% coupon, inventiordetermined
      of 2 yea ntenor, option expiration          exercise price
      06/15/2012
      Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of   06/20/2012 Effective Date, 2 year tenor,
      2.500% on a par financial instrument        2,000% coupon, invention-determined
      of 2 years tenor, option expiration         exercise price
      06/15/2012
 [000911         In this example, counterparties negotiate the price (in premium terms) for a
payer option product with a specific strike rate of 2,250%. The specification of the option at
the time of the trade states that the option is an option on an underlying swap with a coupon
of 2.000%. The underlying benchmark financial instrument is a two-year June IMM dated
financial instrument with an effective date of 06/20/2012 and fixed leg of 2.000%. The option
has European-style exercise.
{000921          On the date that the option expires (06/15/2012), at the time the settlement
(mark-to-market) prices are assigned to outstanding IR Swap Futures, the underlying PVO1
(change in value for one basis point change in the fixed leg) is $924. The par rate at close of a
financial instrument with similar terms to the June IMM dated two-year swap on 06/15/12 is
2.400%. The option holder elects to exercise one payer option with a strike rate of 2.250%
because the option is in-the-money (that is, par rate for the financial instrument is above the
strike rate). Each counterparty receives (is delivered) a position (option buyer becomes long,
option seller becomes short) in one underlying (06/20/2012 Effective Date, 2 year tenor,
2.000% coupon) in advance of Exchange opening on 06/18/2012 at an invention-deternined
price of $23,100. This exercise price is:
                                                 27

      (Strike rate - fixed rate of underlying future) *100 * PV01 of underlying financial
      instrument
              Price of delivered financial instrument= 25 bps * 924
 [00093]            The option seller is now short the same financial instrument at the same price
 of $23,100. The fair market value of the underlying with a fixed rate of 2.000% is
 approximately $36,960 which is the present value difference between the par rate at exercise
 of 2.400% and the fixed rate of the underlying of 2.000% (924 * 40 bps). As a result, the
 option buyer has unrealized gains of approximately $13,860 which is the present value
 difference between the strike of 2.250% and the par rate of 2.400% (924 * 15 bps). The
 option seller has an equivalent unrealized loss of the same amount. This is equivalent to the
 unrealized gain that the trader would have had (ignoring friction costs and other inefficiencies
 associated with current OTC swaption protocols) if delivery occurred in a financial
instrument with a fixed rate equal to the option strike rate.
Example 2
1000941            This example shows that a flexible-rate option can be exercised into a
standardized coupon financial instrument using PVO 1 as the adjustment factor, as described
above in Equation 3, this time for a receiver option.
[000951            Consider a forward starting 10-year LIBOR interest rate swap with notional
amount of $1,000,000. Assume that the discounting curve is an OIS curve, and the forward
curve is a LIBOR curve, though construction of a forward curve may not be necessary for the
application of the invention in this example. A set of LIBOR swap rates, Eurodollar rates,
forward rate agreement rates, LIBOR rates, Treasury rates and swap spreads, etc. are used to
construct the OIS curve and .IBOR curve. A list for multiple options based on this
underlying swap with. a common coupon value, might be:
      Listed Payer (Receiver) Option for          Underlying Financial Instrument
       Trading Today (price negotiated in         Delivered Upon Exercise
       premium)            __________
      Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of 09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
       3.300% on a par financial instrument       3.500% coupon, invention-determined
      of 10 years tenor, option expiration        exerciSe price
      09/14/2012
      Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of 09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor
      '3400%'on a par financial instument         3.500% coupon, inention-determined
     of 10 years tenor, option expiration         exercise price
      09/14/2012
                                                  28

       Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of   09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
       3.500% on a par financial instrument        3.500% coupon, invention-determined
       of 10 years tenor, option expiration        exercise price
       09/14/2012
       Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of   09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
       3.600% on a par financial instrument        3.500% coupon, invention-determined
       of 10 years tenor, option expiration        exercise price
       09/14/2012
       Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of   09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
       3.700% on a par financial instrument        3.500% coupon, invention-determined
       of 10 years tenor, option expiration       exercise price
       09/14/2012                                 ___________________
  [000961         In this example, counterparties negotiate the price (in premium terms) for a
 receiver option product with a strike rate of 3.600%. The specification of the option at the
 time of the trade states that the option is an option on an underlying swap with a coupon of
 3.500%. The underlying benchmark financial instrument is a ten-year September IMM dated
 financial instrument with an effective date of 09/19/2012 and fixed leg of 3.500%. The option
 has European-style exercise.
 [00097]          On the date that the option expires (09/14/2012), at the time the settlement
 (mark-to-market) price is assigned to all outstanding Eris financial instrument, the underlying
 PVO 1 (change in value for I basis point (bp) change in the fixed leg) is $1231. The par rate at
 close of a financial instrument with similar terms to the September IMM dated ten-year swap
on 09/14/12 is 3.55 1%. The option buyer elects to exercise one receiver option with a strike
rate of 3.600%. Each counterparty receives (is delivered) a position (option buyer becomes
long, option seller becomes short) in one underlying (09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year
tenor, 3.500% coupon) in advance of Exchange opening on 09/16/2012 at invention
determined price of $12,310. This exercise price is:
     (Strike rate - fixed rate of underlying future) *100 * PVO 1 of underlying financial
         instrument
         = Price of delivered financial instrument = 10 bps * 1231
f00098]          The option buyer now has a short position in the same underlying at a price of
$12,310. The fair market value of the underlying with a fixed rate of 3.500% is
approximately $6,278 which is the present value difference between the par rate at exercise
of 3.55 1% and the fixed rate of the underlying of 3.500% (1231 * 5.1 bps). As a result, the
option buyer has unrealized gains of approximately $6,032 which is the present value
difference between the strike of 3.600% and the par rate of 3.551% (1231 * 4.9 bps). The
option seller has an equivalent unrealized loss of the same amount. This can also be
                                                 29

 determined by comparing the fair market value of the underlying ($6,278) to the delivered
 level ($12,310), This is equivalent to the unrealized gain that the trader would have had
(ignoring friction costs and other inefficiencies associated with current OTC swaption
protocols) if delivery occurred in a financial instrument with a fixed rate equal to the option
strike.
Example 3
1000991         This example shows that a flexible-rate option can be exercised into a
standardized coupon financial instrument using DVOI as an adjustment factor consistent with
Equation 4, this time for a receiver option.
10001001        Consider a forward starting 10-year LIBOR interest rate swap with notional
amount of $1,000,000. Assume that the discounting curve is an 01S curve, and the forward
curve is a LIBOR curve. A set of LIBOR swap rates, Eurodollar rates, forward rate
agreement rates, LIBOR rates, Treasury rates and swap spreads, etc. are used to construct the
01S curve and LIBOR curve. A list for multiple options based on this underlying swap with a
common coupon value, might be:
     Listed Payer (Receiver) Option for         Underlying Financial Instrument
     Trading Today (price negotiated in         Delivered Upon Exercise
     premium)
     Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of  09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
     3.300% on a par financial instrument       3.500% coupon, invention-determined
     of 10 years tenor, option expiration       exercise price
     09/14/2012
     Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of  09/19/20 12 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
     3.400% on a par financial instrument       3.500% coupon, invention-determined
     of 10 years tenor, option expiration       exercise price
     09/14/2012
     Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of  09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
     3.500% on a par financial instrument       3.500% coupon, invention-determined
     of 10 years tenor, option expiration       exercise price
     09/14/2012
     Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of 09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
     3.600% on a par financial instrument       3.500% coupon, invention-determined
     of 10 years tenor, option expiration      exercise price
     09/14/2012
     Right to pay (receive) fixed at a rate of 09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor,
     3.700% on a par financial instrument      3,500% coupon, invention-determined
     of 10 years tenor, option expiration      exercise price
                                               30

 1000101]         On the date that the option expires (09/14/2012), at the time the settlement
 (mark-to-market) price is assigned to all outstanding Eris financial instrument, the underlying
 DVOI (change in value of the underlying for a I basis point parallel shift in the swap curve
 is) is $1,350. The par rate at close of a financial instrument with similar terms as the
 September IMM dated ten-year swap on 09/14/12 is 3.551%. The option buyer elects to
 exercise one receiver option with a strike rate of 3.600%. Each counterparty receives (is
 delivered) a position (option buyer becomes long, option seller becomes short) in one
underlying (09/19/2012 Effective Date, 10 year tenor, 3.500% coupon) in advance of
Exchange opening on 09/16/2012 at invention-determined price of $13,500. This exercise
price is:
     (Strike rate - fixed rate of underlying future) *100 * DVO 1 of underlying financial
     instrument
         = Price of the delivered financial instrument = 10 bps * 1,350
 [0001021The option buyer now has a short position in the same underlying at a price of
$13,500. The fair market value of the underlying with a fixed rate of 3.500% is
approximately $6,885 which is the present value difference between the par rate at exercise
of 3.551% and the fixed rate of the underlying of 3.500% (1,350 * 5.1 bps).
[000103] As a result, the option buyer has unrealized gains of approximately $6,615 which is
the present value difference between the strike of 3.600% and the par rate of 3.551% (1,350 *
4.9 bps). The option seller has an equivalent unrealized loss of the same amount. This can
also be determined by comparing the fair market value of the underlying ($6,885) to the
delivered level ($13,500). This is equivalent to the unrealized gain that the trader would have
had (ignoring friction costs and other inefficiencies associated with current OTC swaption
protocols) if delivery occurred in a financial instrument with a fixed rate equal to the option
strike.
10001041         Again, the foregoing are non-limiting examples of exercising a flexible-rate
option into a standardized financial instrument with a fixed rate that may differ from the
option strike, and with an exercise price.
10001051         According to the principles of the present invention, in order to publish daily
and terminal settlement values a clearinghouse, exchange, swap execution facility, futures
commission merchant or other market participant may use computers with software
specifically designed for this purpose. The computation of the terminal value in accordance
with the present invention is iterative and complex, and special software is required for this
                                                 31

purpose. This software may be linked to a centralized marketplace via data lines, networks or
the Internet, so that the prices are published in a seamless manner. The clearinghouse may
 store the daily prices for each financial instrument in existence at any given moment in a
database that can be electronically published to the marketplace.
 [0001061       Referring now to Figure 3, a non-limiting example of a high-level hardware
implementation can used to run a system of the present invention is seen. The infrastructure
should include but not be limited to: wide area network connectivity, local area network
connectivity, appropriate network switches and routers, electrical power (backup power),
storage area network hardware, server-class computing hardware, and an operating system
such as for example Redhat Linux Enterprise AS Operating System available from Red Hat,
Inc, 1801 Varsity Drive, Raleigh, North Carolina.
10001071        The clearing and settling and administrative applications software server can
run for example on an HP ProLiant DL 360 G6 server with multiple Intel Xeon 5600 series
processors with a processor base frequency of 3.33 GHz, up to 192 GB of RAM, 2 PCIE
expansion slots, 1GB or 10GB network controllers, hot plug SFF SATA drives, and
redundant power supplies, available from Hewlett-Packard, Inc, located at 3000 Hanover
Street, Palo Alto, California. The database server can be run for example on a HP ProLiant
DL 380 G6 server with multiple Intel Xeon 5600 series processors with a processor base
frequency of 3.33 GHZ, up to 192 GB of RAM, 6 PCIE expansion slots, 16 SFF SATA drive
bays, an integrated P410i integrated storage controller, and redundant power supply, available
from Hewlett-Packard.
[0001081        While the invention has been described with specific embodiments, other
alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For
example, the option could be converted upon execution to an adjusted option with a different
underlying and strike rate, instead of waiting until exercise to perform the conversion.
Accordingly, it will be intended to include all such alternatives, modifications and variations
set forth within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.
                                                32

                                               33
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.        A computer implemented method of cleared flexible-rate financial
  options trading, said method comprising:
             (a) electronically defining, at an application server, an underlying
  financial option instrument data structure representing an underlying financial
  option instrument, wherein said underlying financial option instrument data
  structure includes underlying financial option instrument identification data and
 the data element C1 representing a fixed coupon rate for said underlying
 financial option instrument;
            (b) receiving and storing, at said application server, a discount curve
 comprising at least one of the LIBOR curve and the OIS curve;
            (c) receiving, at said application server, from a first party computerized
 system first party data including:
           first party identity data;
           first party financial option instrument identification data
           first party financial option instrument buy/sell data;
           first party rate-based strike rate data; and
           first party premium data;
           (d) receiving, at said application server, from a second party
computerized system second party data including:
          second party identity data;
          second party financial option instrument identification data;
          second party financial option instrument buy/sell data;
          second party rate-based strike rate data; and
          second party premium data;
          (e) automatically initiating computerized trading of a substitute financial
option instrument at said application server when:
30/11/17

                                                34
             said first party financial option instrument identification data and said
  second party financial option instrument identification data are automatically
  electronically determined to match, and
             said first party financial option instrument buy/sell data is automatically
  electronically determined to indicate an inverse direction than that indicated by
  said second party financial option instrument buy/sell data, and
            said first party rate-based strike rate data and said second party rate
  based strike rate data are automatically electronically determined to match, and
            said first party premium data and said second party premium data are
 automatically electronically determined to match;
            (f) determining, at said application server, a discount factor determined
 by applying said first party premium data and said first party rate-based strike
 rate data to said discount curve previously stored at said application server;
           (g) determining, at said application server, an adjusted price data for a
 substitute position in said underlying financial option instrument having an
 expiration date proximal to the expiration date of the financial option instrument
 identified in said first party financial option instrument identification data by
determining:
                      N
         (c 2 - c)       tci DF(t, Ti)
                     i=1
where,
          c1 is said fixed coupon rate for said underlying financial option
instrument;
          c2 is said first party rate-based strike rate data;
          Tci. is the year fraction of the accrual period for fixed payments; and
          DF(t,Tc,i) is said discount factor from t to Tci;

                                             35
           (h) electronically clearing said computerized trading by automatically
 electronically associating with a computerized trading account associated with
 said first party identity data:
           said substitute position in said underlying financial option instrument,
           said first party financial option instrument buy/sell data;
           and adjusted price data; and
           (i) automatically electronically associating with a computerized trading
account associated with said second party identity data:
          said substitute position in said underlying financial option instrument,
          said second party financial option instrument buy/sell data;
          and adjusted price data.
Dated this 3 0th day of November 2017
Eris Innovations, LLC
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
PETER MAXWELL AND ASSOCIATES

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
