ABSTRACT
         The present invention relates to a mounting system for connecting an outboard
motor to a marine vessel. In one aspect, the mounting system comprises: a swivel
bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a steering axis about
which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating; a pair of clamp bracket
structures extending from the swivel bracket structure; a first steering yoke structure
connected to the swivel bracket structure by way the steering tube structure, and
including a first crosspiece mounting structure that includes a pair of first steering yoke
structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
outboard motor, the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions separated by a
first distance; and a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket
structure by way of the steering tube structure, and including a second steering yoke
structure mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
outboard motor, the second steering yoke structure mount portion positioned between
the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
         The invention also relates to an outboard motor comprising: an internal
combustion engine; first and second transmission components, wherein an aft surface of
the internal combustion engine is attached to the first transmission component, wherein
the first transmission component is attached to the second transmission component, and
wherein the second transmission component is further attached, at least indirectly by an
additional member, to the internal combustion engine; and a mounting system according
to the invention coupled at least indirectly to one or more of the internal combustion
engine, first transmission component, and second transmission component.

     LARGE OUTBOARD MOTOR FOR MARINE VESSEL APPLICATION AND
             RELATED METHODS OF MAKING AND OPERATING SAME
This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention relates to marine propulsion systems and/or related methods of
making and/or operating such systems, and more particularly to outboard motors used as
marine propulsion systems, alone and/or in combination with marine vessels with respect to
which those motors are implemented, and/or methods of making and/or operating same.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] There exist currently many types of motorized or engine-driven propulsion systems
for boats and other marine vehicles or vessels (collectively referred to herein generally as
"marine vessels"). An inboard engine marine propulsion system for example typically
involves an engine that is situated (and supported) within the body (or hull) of the marine
vessel and that drives a crankshaft that in tum, by way of one or more connections, drives one
or more propellers situated along the exterior of the hull of the marine vessel (often at the rear
of the vessel). In such a design, the connections between the propellers and the engine are all
situated within the hull of the marine vessel, and the propellers are typically fixed in their
axial orientation relative to the hull. An additional form of marine propulsion system that can
be considered a variant of the inboard engine marine propulsion system is a "jet boat" marine
propulsion system, where instead of employing propellers along the exterior of the marine
vessel, water rather is drawn into tunnel(s) extending through hull and then pumped outward
from those tunnels to propel the vessel.
                                            1

 10003] Further for example, a pod-type marine propulsion system also employs power
 provided by an engine situated internally within the body (hull) of the marine vessel.
 However, rather than having propeller(s) axially fixed in relation to the hull, the propeller(s)
 in such a system are mounted on a pod structure extending downward beneath the hull, and
 power is transmitted from the engine within the hull down beneath the hull through the pod
 structure and ultimately to the propeller(s) located thereon. Because a pod structure
 employed in a marine vessel having a pod-type marine propulsion system is typically
rotatable about a steering (vertical or substantially-vertical) axis of the marine vessel, such a
 marine vessel employing a pod-type marine propulsion system typically has enhanced
 maneuverability relative to marine vessels employing standard inboard engine marine
propulsion systems with axially-fixed propellers.
10004] While all of the above-described types of marine propulsion systems have their merits
and are well-suited for respective marine vessel applications, each of those systems can be
disadvantageous in certain respects. In particular, in such systems, typically a number of
components such as the propeller(s) remain continually in the water even when the marine
vessel is not in active use. Consequently, such systems often utilize expensive components
that are designed to withstand near-constant exposure to water. Relatedly, some components
of such systems can be difficult to service due to their being within the water or otherwise
difficult to access.
10005] Further, such systems typically are lacking in maneuverability to some extent. As
already discussed, standard inboard engine marine propulsion systems with axially-fixed
propellers typically allow for less maneuverable than pod-type marine propulsion system in
terms of steering maneuverability, particularly since axially-fixed propellers do not generally
allow for adjustments in the direction of thrust about a steering (vertical or substantially
vertical) axis of the marine vessel. Yet all of these conventional systems are further lacking
                                                    2

  in terms of the ability to adjust the thrust direction up or down about an additional trimming
  axis that can be understood as a horizontal (or substantially horizontal) axis perpendicular to
 both the steering (vertical or substantially vertical) axis of the marine vessel and the front-to
 rear (bow-to-stern) axis of the marine vessel. This can be problematic particularly for marine
 vessels that vary considerably in their speeds. Many marine vessel hulls are designed so that,
 as the marine vessel varies in speed, the angle of attack of the hull (that is, an inclination of
 the hull) relative to the water line changes. In such marine vessels, to the extent that the
 propulsion systems fail to allow for thrust adjustments about the trimming axes of the marine
 vessels, the effectiveness of the propulsion systems in propelling the marine vessels forward
 through the water varies and can decline depending upon the marine vessels' speeds and
 changing angles of attack.
 [00061 A further variant of marine propulsion system that can address some of these
 problems is the sterndrive marine propulsion system. In such a system, like those already
 described, an engine is supported within the body (hull) of the marine vessel. However,
 rather than employing fixed propeller(s) or pump(s) or the above-discussed steerable pod of a
 pod-type marine propulsion system, an additional outboard assembly including one or more
 propellers is mounted at (so as to extend from) the stem of the marine vessel. Thus, the
driving apparatus of the marine vessel is separated into two primary parts, the engine within
the hull of the vessel and the additional outboard assembly with the propeller(s) and
associated componentry.
[0007] In such a sterndrive marine propulsion system, although the outboard assembly is
connected by way of one or more linkages to the output of the engine so that rotational power
from the engine can be received at the outboard assembly and ultimately communicated to
the propeller(s) of the outboard assembly, the outboard assembly is mounted to the marine
vessel in a rotatable manner such that the outboard assembly can not only be steered relative
                                                       3

 to the marine vessel about a steering axis but also can be rotated about a trimming axis (again
 substantially perpendicular to both the steering axis and the front-to-rear axis of the marine
 vessel, where substantially perpendicular can occur, for example, when at zero trim). By
 virtue of this, the sterndrive marine propulsion system not only allows for good steering
 maneuverability but also allows for adjustment of the thrust direction about the trimming axis
 so as to enhance the effectiveness of the propulsion system in driving the marine vessel.
 Further, rotation of the outboard assembly about the trimming axis can allow for removal of
the propeller(s) out of the water when not being used, such that those components need not be
 designed to withstand as much wear-and-tear from exposure to the elements, and also are
easier to access for servicing.
 [00081 Although sterndrive marine propulsion systems can be advantageous in the above
respects, such marine propulsion systems along with the other inboard engine marine
propulsion systems already discussed share in common the disadvantage that, by situating the
engine within the hull of the marine vessel, valuable space within the main body of the
marine vessel is taken up. This is often disadvantageous since space within a marine vessel is
often at a premium and would preferably be utilized for other purposes such as for cabin
space, storage, etc. Further, the effectiveness of a propulsion system in propelling a marine
vessel forward can often be enhanced if the marine vessel's angle of attack is inclined as the
marine vessel planes through the water. Yet placement of an engine of a marine vessel
within the hull of the vessel, as is the case in all of the aforementioned types of marine
propulsion systems, tends to counteract this effect. This is because the engine is often the
heaviest, or one of the heaviest, portions of a marine vessel, and consequently placement of
the engine within the hull tends to reduce the marine vessel's angle of attack (or work against
further increases in that angle of attack).
                                                      4

  [00091 Yet a further type of marine propulsion system, namely, the outboard motor marine
 propulsion system, addresses some of the aforementioned disadvantages. Like sterndrive
 marine propulsion systems, outboard motor marine propulsion systems include an outboard
 assembly that is rotatably mounted at the stern of the marine vessel with which it is
 associated in a manner such that the outboard assembly can be rotated both about a steering
 axis and a trimming axis. Thus, outboard motor marine propulsion systems not only offer
 maneuverability in terms of steering but also offer the advantages described above with
 respect to sterndrive marine propulsion systems in terms of achieving enhanced propelling of
 the boat notwithstanding changes in the angle of attack of the marine vessel, reducing the
 need for specialized components capable of withstanding the elements, and facilitating
 servicing.
 [0010] Additionally, in contrast with sterndrive marine propulsion systems, the motor or
 engine of an outboard motor marine propulsion system is also located on the outboard
 assembly itself rather than within the hull of the marine vessel. Such placement of the engine
allows for the aforementioned disadvantages associated with inboard engine placement to be
overcome. In particular, valuable space within the hull no longer needs to be allocated to the
engine, thus freeing up that space for other uses. Also, since the weight of the engine is
placed at (so as to extend behind) the stern of the marine vessel as part of the outboard
assembly, the angle of attack of the marine vessel tends to be further increased rather than
diminished by the engine placement, thus resulting in better powering of the marine vessel.
[00111 Outboard motor marine propulsion systems also allow for additional advantages to be
achieved as well. For example, for various reasons, the engines employed in outboard motor
marine propulsion systems often can be more efficient in design and lower in weight than
inboard engines providing the same amount of drive power. Additionally, because the
engine/motor is integrated within the outboard assembly in an outboard motor marine
                                                    5

 propulsion system such systems tend to be robust, and removal of the entire (or substantially
 the entire) driving apparatus of the marine vessel can be easily achieved to not only facilitate
 servicing of the components of that driving apparatus but also facilitate transporting of the
 driving apparatus (as well as the marine vessel, either in combination with the driving
 apparatus or separate therefrom), storage of the driving apparatus, and replacement of the
 driving apparatus with another driving apparatus.
 [0012] Given the above advantages associated with outboard motor marine propulsion
 systems, in many respects these propulsion systems are the most effective marine propulsion
 systems available for a wide variety of marine vessel applications. Even so, conventional
 outboard motor marine propulsion systems are disadvantageous in one or more respects.
Above all, there exists an ongoing demand for larger and more powerful marine vessel
 propulsion systems, so as to increase the speed and agility of marine vessels and the ease of
use and excitement associated with operating marine vessels. This demand is further
heightened by the growth in size and weight of marine vessels themselves, particularly yachts
and other pleasure craft. Yet conventional outboard motors are limited in terms of the power
that the motors can generate and deliver to the propeller(s) of the outboard motors for driving
marine vessels. Indeed conventional outboard motors have topped out, in terms of the
maximum power output from a single motor, at around 350 horsepower, and improvements
in power output to get to even that level have been difficult to achieve.
[0013] Although in some marine vessel applications these problems have been at least partly
overcome by mounting multiple (often, for example, three or four) outboard motors on a
single marine vessel so as to achieve a larger combined power, such efforts have only met
with limited success. Not only can the implementation and control of multiple outboard
motors be a costly and complicated, but also the use of multiple outboard motors is a rather
inefficient manner of achieving higher power for a marine vessel. While each additional
                                                   6

 outboard motor added to a marine vessel increases the overall driving power available for the
 marine vessel, the amount of increased driving power is not as large as might be hoped for
 because, in addition to outputting power, each additional outboard motor also increases the
 drag affecting movement of the marine vessel due to the interaction between that assembly
 and the water into which that assembly descends.
 [00141 For at least these reasons, therefore, it would be advantageous if an additional new or
 improved marine propulsion system could be developed that, in at least some embodiments,
 would achieve one or more of the above-described advantages associated with existing
 outboard motor marine propulsion systems and yet also would overcome entirely, or to a
 significant degree, the aforementioned disadvantages associated with the use of conventional
outboard motors. Among other things, it would particularly be desirable if a new or
improved outboard motor marine propulsion system could be developed that, in at least some
embodiments, allowed for the output of substantially greater power levels than conventional
outboard motor marine propulsion systems.
                           BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00151 The present inventors have recognized that the conventional paradigm of outboard
motor marine propulsion system design involves the implementation of vertical crankshaft
engines, which are naturally suited for outboard motor applications insofar as the crankshafts
naturally are configured to deliver rotational power downward from the engines to the
propellers situated at the bottoms of the outboard motors for interaction with the water.
Further, the present inventors have realized that this conventional paradigm of utilizing
vertical crankshaft engines in outboard motor marine propulsion systems imposes serious
limits on the development of higher power systems, because the development of vertical
crankshaft engines capable of achieving substantial increases in power output in outboard
                                                   7

  motor marine propulsion systems has proven to be very time-consuming, complicated, and
  costly. Additionally, the present inventors have achieved the further realizations that this
 conventional paradigm need not be followed in designing outboard motor marine propulsion
  systems, that it is possible to implement horizontal crankshaft engines in outboard motor
 marine propulsion systems, and that a paradigm shift to the use of horizontal crankshaft
 engines would open up the possibility of using a wide variety of high quality, relatively
 inexpensive engines (including, for example, many automotive engines) in outboard motor
 marine propulsion systems that could yield dramatic improvements in the levels of power
 output by outboard motor marine propulsion systems as well as one or more other types of
 improvements as well.
 10016] Relatedly, the present inventors have recognized one or more features that, depending
 upon the embodiment, can be employed in the design of outboard motor marine propulsion
 systems utilizing horizontal crankshaft engines that can enhance the performance of such
systems and allow for more streamlined, more efficient, and otherwise more effective
integration of horizontal crankshaft engines in relation to other system components. For
example, in some embodiments, a three-part transmission (including, further for example, a
 forward-neutral-reverse transmission) can be utilized so as to deliver and allow for the
delivery of rotational power from the engine to the propeller(s). Also for example, in some
embodiments, exhaust from the engine can be delivered by way of exhaust conduit(s) to the
gear assembly and out a rear hub proximate a propeller of the assembly. Further for example,
in at least some embodiments, some of the water within which the marine vessel is situated
can be utilized for cooling of gear portions and/or for cooling the engine itself, via a heat
exchanger. Also for example, the mounting system by which the outboard motor is attached
to the marine vessel itself can have one or more particular attributes that reflect, and take
advantage of, the use of a horizontal crankshaft engine.
                                                    8

 [0017] Notwithstanding the above comments, it should be understood that, depending upon
 the embodiment, one or more of these types of features can be present and/or one or more of
 these various features need not be present. Further, the present inventors have additionally
 realized that one or more of these features can potentially be advantageously implemented in
 embodiments of outboard motor marine propulsion systems even though other(s) of these
 features are not present, and even potentially where other types of engines other than
 horizontal crankshaft engines are being utilized (or even possibly in some sterndrive or other
 marine propulsion systems where the engine is not integrated with the outboard assembly).
 [0018] More particularly, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to an
 outboard motor configured to be mounted on a marine vessel. The outboard motor includes a
 housing including an upper portion and a lower portion, where at least one output shaft
extends outward from the lower portion upon which at least one propeller is supported, and
an engine configured to provide first torque at a first shaft extending outward from the
engine, the engine being substantially situated within the housing. The outboard motor
 further includes a first transmission device that is in communication with the first shaft so as
to receive the output torque and configured to cause second torque including at least some of
the first torque to be communicated to a first location beneath the engine, a second
transmission device configured to receive the second torque and to cause third torque
including at least some of the second torque to be communicated to a second location beneath
the first location within or proximate to the lower portion, and a third transmission device
positioned within or proximate to the lower portion that is configured to receive the third
torque and cause at least some at least some of the third torque to be provided to the at least
one output shaft.
10019] Additionally, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a method
of operating an outboard engine. The method includes providing first torque from the engine
                                                     9

 at a first shaft extending aftward from the engine, and causing second torque including at
 least some of the first torque to be provided to a first location below the engine at least in part
 by way of a first transmission device. The method further includes causing third torque
 including at least some of the second torque to be provided to a second location below the
 first location at least in part by way of a second transmission device, and causing fourth
 torque including at least some of the third torque to be provided to a propeller supported in
 relation to a torpedo portion of the outboard engine.
 [0020] Notwithstanding the above, in other embodiments, numerous other features,
 characteristics, assemblies, combinations, methods and other aspects can be provided.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [00211 FIG. I is a schematic view of an example marine vessel assembly including an
example outboard motor;
[0022] FIG. 2 is a right side elevation view of the outboard motor of FIG. 1;
[0023] FIG. 3 is a rear elevation view of the outboard motor of FIG. 1;
[0024] FIGS. 4A and 4B are right side elevation views of alternate embodiments of the
outboard motor of FIG. 1;
[0025] FIG. 5 is a further rights side elevation view of the outboard motor of FIG. 1, showing
in more detail several example internal components of the outboard motor particularly
revealed when cowling portion(s) of the outboard motor are removed;
[0026] FIG. 6A is a schematic diagram illustrating in additional detail several example
internal components of the outboard motor of FIGS. I and 5;
[0027] FIG. 6B is a further diagram showing an upper portion of the outboard motor of FIG.
6 an illustrating an example manner of configuring the cowling of the outboard motor to
allow for opening and closing of a portion of the cowling so as to reveal internal components;
                                                    10

  [0028] FIGS. 6C-6E illustrate schematically sealing pan features associated with the engine.
  [0029] FIGS. 7A and 7B are schematic diagrams showing in more detail two example
  embodiments of a first transmission of the outboard motor of FIG. 6A;
  [0030] FIG. 8A is a schematic diagram showing in more detail an example embodiment of a
 second transmission of the outboard motor of FIG. 6A;
 10031] FIGS. 9A-9C are schematic diagrams showing in more detail three example
 embodiments of a third transmission of the outboard motor of FIG. 6A (or a modified version
 thereof having having two counterrotating propellers);
 [0032] FIG. 10A is a cross-sectional view of a lower portion of the outboard motor of FIGS.
 1-3, 5, and 6A, taken along line 10-10 of FIG. 3, shown cutaway from mid and upper portions
 of that outboard motor;
 [0033] FIG. 1OB is a rear elevation view a gear casing of the lower portion of the outboard
 motor of FIG. 1OA, shown cutaway from the remainder of the lower portion;
 [0034] FIG. I1A is a rear elevation view of upper and mid portions of the outboard motor of
FIGS. 1-3, 5, 6A and 10A-10B, shown with the cowling of the outboard motor removed to
reveal internal components of the outboard motor including exhaust system components;
 [0035] FIG. I IB illustrates various exhaust system components of the outboard motor in
additional detail;
[0036] FIG. 12 is an enlarged perspective view of the exemplary mounting system in
accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure;
[0037] FIG. 13 is an enlarged right side elevational view of the mounting system of FIG. 12;
[0038] FIG. 14 is an enlarged front view of the mounting system of FIG. 12;
[0039] FIG. 15 is a schematic view of the mounting system of FIG. 12 generally illustrating
convergence between the upper mounts and the lower mounts;
[0040] FIG. 16 is an enlarged top view of the mounting system of FIG. 12;
                                                  11

  10041] FIG. 17 is a cross sectional view taken along line 17-17 of FIG. 13 and/or through a
 tilt tube structure of the mounting system of FIG, 12;
 100421 FIG. 18 is a right side view of the outboard motor showing an illustrative outboard
 motor water cooling system in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure;
 10043] FIG. 19 is a schematic illustration of an alternative arrangement for an outboard motor
 water cooling system, in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure;
 10044] FIG. 20 is a right side view of the outboard motor including a rigid connection of
 multiple motor components or structures to create a rigid structure in accordance with
 embodiments of the present disclosure;
 100451 FIG. 21 is a reduced right side view of the outboard motor and a mounting system for
 mounting the outboard motor to a marine vessel;
 10046] FIG. 22 is a schematic cross sectional view, taken along line 22-22 of FIG. 21,
 showing a progressive mounting assembly;
 10047] FIGS. 23A-C are schematic illustrations depicting a portion of the progressive
mounting structure of FIG. 21 in operation; and
 10048] FIG. 24 is a rear elevation view of example structural support components and other
components of an alternate embodiment of the outboard motor.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0049] Referring to FIG. 1, an example marine vessel assembly 100 is shown to be floating
in water 101 (shown in cut-away) that includes, in addition to an example marine vessel 102,
an example outboard motor marine propulsion system 104, which for simplicity is referred to
below more simply as an outboard motor 104, As shown, the outboard motor 104 is coupled
to a stern (rear) edge or transom 106 of the marine vessel 102 by way of a mounting system
                                                  12

  108, which is described in further detail below. Also described below, the mounting system
  108 will be considered, for purposes of the present discussion, to be part of the outboard
 motor 104 although one or more components of the mounting system can technically be
 assembled directly to the stem edge (transom) 106 and thus could also be viewed as
 constituting part of the marine vessel 102 itself In the present embodiment shown, the
 marine vessel 102 is shown to be a speed boat although, depending upon the embodiment, the
 marine vessel can take a variety of other forms, including a variety of yachts, other pleasure
 craft, as well as other types of boats, marine vehicles and marine vessels,
 [0050] As will be discussed in further detail below, the mounting system 108 allows the
 outboard motor 104 to be steered about a steering (vertical or substantially vertical) axis 110
 relative to the marine vessel 102, and further allows the outboard motor 104 to be rotated
about a tilt or trimming axis 112 that is perpendicular to (or substantially perpendicular to)
the steering axis 110. As shown, the steering axis 110 and trimming axis 112 are both
 perpendicular to (or substantially perpendicular to) a front-to-rear axis 114 generally
extending from the stern edge 106 of the marine vessel toward a bow 116 of the marine
vessel.
10051] The outboard motor 104 can be viewed as having an upper portion 118, a mid portion
 120 and a lower portion 122, with the upper and mid portions being separated conceptually
by a plane 124 and the mid and lower portions being separated conceptually by a plane 126
(the planes being shown in dashed lines). Although for the present description purposes the
upper, mid and lower portions 118, 120 and 122 can be viewed as being above or below the
planes 124, 126, these planes are merely provided for convenience to distinguish between
general sections of the outboard motor, and thus in certain cases it may be appropriate to refer
to a section of the outboard motor that is positioned above the plane 126 (or plane 124) as
still being part of the lower portion 122 (or mid portion 120) of the outboard motor view, or
                                                   13

 to refer to a section of the outboard motor that is positioned below the plane 126 (or plane
  124) as still being part of the mid portion 120 (or upper portion 118). This is the case, for
 example, in the discussion with respect to FIG. 10A.
 [0052] Nevertheless, generally speaking, the upper portion 118 and mid portion 120 can be
 understood as generally being positioned above and below the plane 124, while the mid
 portion 120 and lower portion 122 can be understood as generally being positioned above and
below the plane 126. Further, each of the upper, mid, and lower portions 118, 120, and 122
can be understood as generally being associated with particular components of the outboard
motor 104. In particular, the upper portion 118 is the portion of the outboard motor 104 in
which the engine or motor of the outboard motor assembly is entirely (or primarily) located.
In the present embodiment, given the positioning of the upper portion 118, the engine
therewithin (e.g., internal combustion engine 504 discussed below with respect to FIG. 5)
particularly can be considered to be substantially above (or even entirely above) the trimming
axis 112 mentioned above. Given such positioning, the engine essentially is not in contact
with the water 101 during operation of the marine vessel 102 and outboard motor 104, and
advantageously the outside water 101 does not tend to enter cylinder ports of the engine or
otherwise deleteriously affect engine operation. Such positioning further is desirable since,
by positioning the engine above the trimming axis 112, the mounting system 108 and the
transom 106 to which it is attached can be at a convenient (e.g., not-excessively-elevated)
location along the marine vessel 102.
10053] By comparison, the lower portion 122 is the portion that is typically within the water
during operation of the outboard motor 104 (that is, beneath a water level or line 128 of the
water 101), and among other things includes a gear casing (or torpedo section), as well as a
propeller 130 as shown (or possibly multiple propellers) associated with the outboard motor.
The mid portion 120 positioned between the upper and lower portions 118, 122 as will be
                                                    14

 discussed further below can include a variety of components and, among other things in the
 present embodiment, will include transmission, oil reservoir, cooling and exhaust
 components, among others.
 [0054] Turning next to FIGS. 2 and 3, a further side elevation view (right side elevation
 view) and rear view of the outboard motor 104 of FIG. I are provided. It will be understood
 that the left side view of the outboard motor 104 is in at least some embodiments a mirror
 image of the right side view provided in FIG. 2. In particular, FIGS. 2 and 3 again show the
 outboard motor 104 as having the upper portion 118, mid portion 120 and lower portion 122
 separated by the planes 124 and 126, respectively. Further, the steering axis 110 and
trimming (or tilt) axis 112 are also shown. The mounting system 108 is particularly evident
from FIG. 2, as is the propeller 130 (which is not shown in FIG. 3). FIGS. 2 and 3
particularly show several features associated with an outer housing or cowling 200 of the
outboard motor 104. Among other things, the cowling 200 includes air inlet scoops (or
simply air inlet) 202 along upper side surfaces of the upper portion 118 of the outboard motor
 104, one of which is shown in the right side elevation view provided in FIG. 2 (it being
understood that a complimentary air inlet is provided on the left side of the cowling 200). In
the present embodiment, the air inlet scoops 202 extend in a rearward-facing direction and
serve as an entry for air to be used in the engine of the outboard motor 104 (see FIG. 5). The
high positioning of the air inlet scoops 202 reduces the extent to which seawater can enter
into the air inlets.
[0055] Additionally as shown, also formed within the cowling 200 are exhaust bypass outlets
204, which are shown in further detail in FIG. 3 to be rearward-facing oval orifices in the
upper portion 118 of the outboard motor 104 extending into the cowling 200. As discussed
further below, the exhaust bypass outlets 204 in the present embodiment serve as auxiliary
(or secondary) outlets for exhaust generated by the engine of the outboard motor 104. As
                                                   15

  such, exhaust need not always (or ever) flow out of the exhaust bypass outlets 204, albeit in
 the present embodiment it is envisioned that under at least some operational circumstances
 the exhaust will be directed to flow out of those outlets.
 [0056] Further as evident from FIG. 2, the lower portion 122 of the outboard motor 104
 includes a gear casing (or torpedo) 206 extending along an elongated axis 208 about which
 the propeller 130 spins when driven. Downwardly-extending from the gear casing 206 is a
 downwardly-extending fin 210. Referring particularly to FIG. 3, it should further be
 understood that an orifice (actually multiple orifices as discussed further with respect to
 FIGS. IOA and 1OB) 302 is formed at a rearward-most end or hub 212 of the gear casing 206
 that surrounds a propeller driving output shaft 212 extending along the axis 208. As will be
 discussed further below, this orifice 302 forms a primary exhaust outlet for the outboard
 motor 104 that is the usual passage out of which exhaust is directed from the engine of the
 outboard motor (as opposed to the exhaust bypass outlets 204).
 [0057] Referring additionally to FIGS. 4A and 4B, first and second alternate embodiments
402 and 404, respectively, of the outboard motor 104 are shown. Each of these alternate
 embodiments 402, 404 is substantially identical to the outboard motor 104 shown in FIG. 2,
except insofar as the mid portion 120 of the outboard motor 104 is changed in its dimensions
in each of these other alternate embodiments. More particularly, a leg lengthening section
408 of a mid portion 410 of the first alternate embodiment 402 of FIG. 4A is shortened
relative to the corresponding leg lengthening section of the mid portion 120 of the outboard
motor 104, while a leg lengthening section 412 of a mid portion 414 of the second altemate
embodiment 404 of FIG. 4B is elongated relative to the corresponding section of the mid
portion 120 of the outboard motor 104. Thus, with such variations, the positioning of the
lower portion 122 can be raised or lowered relative to the upper portion 118 depending upon
the embodiment and particularly the leg lengthening section of the mid portion.
                                                   16

  [00581 Turning to FIG. 5, a further right side elevation view of the outboard motor 104 is
 provided that differs from that of FIG. 2 at least insofar as the cowling 200 (or, portions
 thereof) is removed from the outboard motor to reveal various internal components of the
 outboard motor, particularly within the upper portion 118 and mid portion 120 of the
 outboard motor. At the same time, the lower portion 122 of the outboard motor 104 is
 viewed from outside the cowling 200 of the outboard motor, as is a lower section of the
 middle portion 120 that can be termed a midsection 502 of the middle portion 200. Again
 though, above the midsection 502, various internal components of the outboard motor 104 are
 revealed. As with the views provided in FIG. 2 and FIG. 4, the view in FIG. 5 is the mirror
 image (or substantially a mirror image) of the left side elevation view that would be obtained
 if the outboard motor were viewed from its opposite side (with the cowling removed).
 [00591 More particularly as shown in FIG. 5, an engine 504 of the outboard motor 104 is
 positioned within the upper portion 118 of the outboard motor, entirely or at least
substantially above the trimming axis 112 as mentioned earlier. In at least some
 embodiments, and in the present embodiment, the engine 504 is a horizontal crankshaft
 internal combustion engine having a horizontal crankshaft arranged along a horizontal
 crankshaft axis 506 (shown as a dashed line). Further, in at least some embodiments and in
the present embodiment, the engine 504 not only is a horizontal crankshaft engine, but also is
a conventional automotive engine capable of being used in automotive applications and
having multiple cylinders and other standard components found in automotive engines. More
particularly, in the present embodiment, the engine 504 particularly is an eight-cylinder V
type internal combustion engine such as available from the General Motors Company of
Detroit, Michigan for implementation in Cadillac (or alternatively Chevrolet) automobiles.
Further, the engine 504 in at least some embodiments is capable of outputting power at levels
                                                   17

 of 550 horsepower or above, and/or power within the range of at least 557 horsepower to at
 least 707 horsepower.
 10060] As an eight-cylinder engine, the engine 504 has eight exhaust ports 508, four of which
 are evident in FIG. 5, emanating from the left and right sides of the engine. The four exhaust
 ports 508 emanating from the right side of the engine 504 particularly are shown to be in
 communication with an exhaust manifold 510 that merges the exhaust output from these
 exhaust ports into an exhaust channel 512 that leads downward from the exhaust manifold
 510 to the midsection 502. It will be understood that a complimentary exhaust manifold and
 exhaust channel are provided on the left side of the engine to receive the exhaust from the
 corresponding exhaust ports on that side of the engine. As will be described in further detail
 below, both of the exhaust channels (including the exhaust channel 512) upon reaching the
midsection 502 further are coupled to the lower portion 122 at which the exhaust is ultimately
directed through the gear casing 206 and out the orifice 302 serving as the primary exhaust
outlet. It should further be noted that, given the use of the horizontal crankshaft engine 504,
all of the steam relief ports associated with the various engine cylinders are at a shared, high
level, above the crankshaft (all or substantially all steam in the engine therefore rises to a
shared engine level). Also the accessory drive and heat exchanger system are accessible at
the front of the engine 504 (particularly when the lid portion of the cowling 200 is raised as
discussed further below). In addition to showing the aforementioned components, FIG. 5
additionally shows a transfer case 514 within which is provided a first transmission as
discussed further below, and a second transmission 516 that is located below the engine 504.
[0061] Further, FIG. 5 shows the mounting system 108, including a lower mounting bracket
structure 518 of the mounting system 108 by which the midsection 502 of the mid portion
120 of the outboard motor 504 is linked to the mounting system, and also an upper mounting
bracket 520 by which the mounting system is attached to an upper section of the mid portion
                                                   18

  120. An elastic axis of mounting 519 is provided and passes through the upper mounting
 bracket 520 and the lower mounting bracket 518. In at least some embodiments, the center of
 gravity of the engine 504 is in line with the elastic axis of mounting. Also FIG. 5 shows a
 lower water inlet 522 positioned along a front bottom section of the gear casing 206 forward
 of the fin 210, as well as an upper water inlet 524 and associated cover plate 526 provided
 near the front of the lower portion 122, about midway between the top and bottom of the
 lower portion. The lower and upper water inlets 522, 524 and associated cover plates 526
(there is also a corresponding upper water inlet and associated cover plate on the left side of
the lower portion 122) are discussed further with respect to FIG. 10A. All of these
components, and additional components of the outboard motor 104, are discussed and
described in further detail below.
 [0062] Turning to FIG. 6A, a further right side elevation view of the outboard motor 104 is
provided in which the relationship of certain internal components of the outboard motor are
figuratively illustrated in phantom. More particularly as shown, the outboard motor 104
again is shown to include the engine 504 (this time as represented by a dashed outline in
phantom) within the upper portion 118 of the outboard motor. Further as illustrated,
rotational power output from the engine 504 is delivered from the engine and to the propeller
130 of the outboard motor by way of three distinct transmissions. More particularly as
shown, rotational output power is first transmitted outward from a rear face 602 of the engine
504, along the crankshaft axis 506 as represented by an arrow 604, to a first transmission 606
shown in dashed lines (the power being transmitted by the crankshaft, not shown). A
flywheel 607 of the outboard motor 104 is further positioned between the rear of the engine
504 and the first transmission 606, on the crankshaft, for rotation about the crankshaft axis
506.
                                                    19

 10063] Referring additionally to FIG. 6B, an additional cutaway view of the upper portion
  118 of the outboard motor 104 shown in FIG. 6A is provided so as to particularly illustrate a
 portion of the cowling 200, shown as a cowling portion 650, that is hinged relative to the
 remainder of the cowling by way of a hinge 652. As a result of the particular manner in
 which the cowling portion 650 is hingedly coupled to the remainder of the cowling 200, the
 cowling portion 650 is able to be opened in a manner by which the cowling swings upward
 and aftward relative to the remainder of the cowling, in a direction represented by an arrow
 654. Thus, the cowling portion 650 can take on both a closed position (shown in FIG. 6B in
 solid lines) and an open position (shown in dashed lines), as well as positions intermediate
therebetween. Further, because the cowling portion 650 includes a front side 656 that
extends all or almost all of(or a large portion of) the height of the upper portion 118 of the
outboard motor 104, opening of the cowling portion in this manner allows the engine 504 to
be largely exposed and particularly for a front portion 658 of the engine 504 and/or a top
portion 660 of the engine to be easily accessed, and particularly easily accessed by a service
technician or operator standing at the stern of the marine vessel 102 to which the outboard
motor 104 is attached. In embodiments where the engine 504 is a horizontal crankshaft
engine, particularly an automotive engine as mentioned above, servicing of the engine (and
particularly those portions or accessories of the engine that most commonly are serviced,
such as oil level, spark plugs, belts, and/or various electrical components) can be particularly
facilitated by this arrangement. Also, an accessory drive, extending from the front of the
engine 504, along with an associated accessory drive belt, can be accessed in this manner.
[0064] Referring again to FIG. 6A, the purpose of the first transmission 606 is first of all to
transmit the rotational power from the crankshaft axis 506 level within the upper portion 118
of the engine 104 to a lower level corresponding to a second transmission 608 (also shown in
dashed lines) within the mid portion 120 of the outboard motor 104 (the upper portion 118
                                                   20

 and middle portion 120 again being separated by the plane 124). Thus, an arrow 610 is
 shown connecting the arrow 604 with a further arrow 612 at a set level 611 of the second
 transmission 608. The arrow 612, which links the arrow 610 with the second transmission
 608, is representative of a shaft or axle (see FIG. 7) linking the first transmission 606 with the
 second transmission 608, by which rotational power is communicated in a forward direction
 within the outboard motor 104 from the first transmission to the second transmission.
 Additionally, a further arrow 614 then represents communication of the rotational power
 downward again from the level of the second transmission 608 within the mid portion 120 to
 a third transmission 616 within the gear casing 206 of the lower portion 122. In accordance
 with at least one aspect, the gear casing 206 has a center of pressure 207 that is aft of the
 elastic axis of mounting (FIG. 5). Finally, as indicated by an arrow 618, rotational power is
 communicated from the third transmission 616 aftward (rearward) from that transmission to
the propeller 130 along the axis 208. It can further be noted that, given this arrangement, the
 flywheel 607 mentioned above is aft of the engine 504, forward of the first transmission 606,
and above each of the second and third transmissions 608 and 616. In at least some
embodiments, an oil pump is provided that is concentrically driven by the engine crankshaft.
[0065] Thus, in the outboard motor 104, power output from the engine 504 follows an S
shaped route, namely, first aftward as represented by the arrow 604, then downward as
represented by the arrow 610, then forward as represented by the arrow 612, then downward
again as represented by the arrow 614 and then finally aftward again as represented by the
arrow 618. By virtue of such routing, rotational power from the horizontal crankshaft can be
communicated downward to the propeller 130 even though the power take off (that is, the
rotational output shaft) of the engine is proximate the rear of the outboard motor 104/cowling
200. Although it is possible that, in alternate embodiments, rotational power need not be
communicated in this type of manner, as will be described further below, this particular
                                                  21

 manner of communicating the rotational power via the three transmissions 606, 608, 616 is
 consistent with, and makes possible, a number of advantages. Additionally, it should further
 be noted that in FIG. 6A, a center of gravity 617 of the engine 504 is shown to be above the
 crankshaft axis 506, and a position of the mounting pad for the engine block 620 is also
 shown (in phantom) to be located substantially at the level of the crankshaft axis 506.
 [0066] In addition to showing the above features of the outboard motor 104 particularly
relating to the transmission of power within the outboard motor, FIG. 6A also shows certain
aspects of an oil system of the outboard motor 104. In particular, in the present embodiment,
it should be understood that each of the engine 504, the first transmission 606, the second
transmission 608, and the third transmission 616 includes its own dedicated oil reservoir,
such that the respective oil sources for each of these respective engine components (each
respective transmission and the engine itself) are distinct. In this regard, the oil reservoirs for
the first transmission 606 and third transmission 616 can be considered part of those
transmissions (e.g., the reservoirs can be the bottom portions/floors of the transmission
housings). As for the engine 504, an engine oil reservoir 622 extends below the engine itself,
and in this example extends partly into the mid portion 120 of the outboard motor 104 from
the upper portion 118. Notwithstanding the present description, the engine oil reservoir 622
can also be considered to be part of the engine itself (in such case, the engine 504 is
substantially albeit possibly not entirely above the trimming axis 112; alternatively, the
engine oil reservoir 622 can be considered distinct from the engine per se, in which case the
engine is entirely above the trimming axis). In accordance with other embodiments of the
present disclosure, a dry sump (not shown) can be provided, separate and apart from the
engine oil reservoir 622. And in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure, a
circulation pump is provided, for example, as part of the engine to circulate glycol, or a like
fluid.
                                                 22

  [0067] Further, FIG. 6A particularly shows that a second transmission oil reservoir 624 is
 positioned within the mid portion 120 of the outboard motor 104, beneath the second
 transmission 608. This positioning is advantageous for several reasons. First, as will be
 discussed further below, the positioning of the second oil transmission reservoir 624 at this
 location allows cooling water channels to pass in proximity to the reservoir and thus
 facilitates cooling of the oil within that reservoir. Additionally, the positioning of the second
 oil transmission reservoir 624 at this location is advantageous in that it makes use of interior
 space within the mid portion 120 which otherwise would serve little or no purpose (other than
 as a housing for the shaft connecting the second and third transmissions and for cooling and
 exhaust pathways as discussed below), as a site for storing oil that otherwise would be
 difficult to store elsewhere in the outboard motor. Indeed, because as discussed below the
 second transmission 608 is a forward-neutral-reverse (FNR) transmission, that transmission
 utilizes a significant amount of oil (e.g., 10 quarts or 5 Liters) and storage of this amount of
oil requires a significant amount of space, which fortunately is found at the mid portion 120
 (within which is positioned the second oil transmission reservoir 624 capable of holding such
amounts of oil).
[0068] Turning next to FIGS. 6C-6D, additional features of the outboard motor 104 are
shown, particularly in relation to the cowl 200 and a watertight sealing pan beneath the
engine 104. As illustrated particularly in FIG. 6C (which shows a cutaway view of the upper
portion 118), the cowl 200 particularly serves to house the engine 504 and serves to separate
the engine compartment from other remaining portions of the outboard motor 104 to provide
a clean and dry environment for the engine. For this purpose, in combination with the cowl
200, the outboard motor 104 additionally includes a substantially watertight sealing pan 680
that is positioned beneath the engine 504. Referring additionally to FIG. 6D, which
schematically provides a top view of the watertight sealing pan 680. In particular as shown,
                                                    23

 the watertight sealing pan 680 includes valves 682 that allow water that resides in the
 watertight sealing pan to exit the watertight sealing pan, but that preclude water from
 reentering the watertight sealing pan. As for FIG. 6E, a further schematic view illustrates a
 rights side view of the upper portion 118 and a section of the mid portion 120 to illustrate
 how the exhaust conduits 512 pass through holes separate from the first transmission 606
 through the sealing pan.
 [00691 Turning next to FIGS. 7A-9C, internal components of the first, second and third
transmissions 606, 608 and 616 are shown. It should be understood that, notwithstanding the
 particular components shown in FIGS. 7A-9C, it is envisioned that the first, second and third
 transmissions can take other forms (with other intemal components) in other embodiments as
well. Particularly referring to FIG. 7A, both a rear elevation view and also a right side
elevation view (corresponding respectively to the views provided in FIG. 3 and FIG. 2) of
 internal components 702 of the first transmission 606 are shown. In this embodiment, the
first transmission 606 is a parallel shaft transmission that includes a series of first, second and
third gears 704, 706 and 708, respectively, that are each of equal diameter and are arranged to
engage/interlock with one another in line between the crankshaft axis 506 and the level 611
previously discussed with reference to FIG. 6A. All three of the first, second and third gears
704, 706 and 708 are housed within an outer case 710 of the first transmission 606. An axis
of rotation 712 of the second gear 706 positioned in between the first gear 704 and the third
gear 708 is parallel to the first axis 506 and level 611, and all of the first axis 506, level 611
and axis of rotation 712 are within a shared vertically-extending or substantially vertically
extending plane. As will be understood, because there are three gears, rotation of the first
gear 704 in a first direction represented by an arrow 714 (in this case, being counterclockwise
as shown in the rear view) produces identical counterclockwise rotation in accordance with
an arrow 716 of the third gear 708, due to intermediary operation of the second gear 706,
                                                   24

 which rotates in the exact opposite (clockwise) direction represented by an arrow 718. Thus,
 in this embodiment, rotation of a crankshaft 720 of the engine (as shown in cutaway in the
 side elevation view) about the crankshaft axis 506 produces identical rotation of an
 intermediate axle 722 rotating about the level 611, the intermediary axle 722 linking the third
 gear 708 with the second transmission 608.
 [0070] Although in the present embodiment of FIG. 7A, each of the first, second and third
 gears 704, 706 and 708 are of equal diameter, in other embodiments the gears can have
 different diameters such that particular rotation of the crankshaft 720 produces a different
 amount of rotation of the intermediary axle 722 in accordance with stepping up or stepping
 down of gear ratios. In addition, depending upon the embodiment, the number of gears
 linking the crankshaft 720 with the intermediary axle 722 need not be three. If an even
number of gears is used, it will be understood that the intermediary axle will rotate in a
direction opposite that of the crankshaft. Further, in at least some embodiments, the
particular gears employed in the first transmission can be varied depending upon the
application or circumstance, such that the outboard motor 104 can be varied in its operation
in real time or substantially real time. For example, a 3-gear arrangement can be replaced
with a 5-gear arrangement, or a 3 to 2 step down gear ratio can be modified to a 2 to 3 step up
ratio.
[0071] Notwithstanding the embodiment of the first transmission 606 shown in FIG. 7A, in
an alternate embodiment of the first transmission shown in FIG. 7B as a transmission
arrangement 730, internal components 732 of the transmission include a chain 734 that links
a first sprocket 736 with a second sprocket 738, where the first sprocket 736 is driven by a
crankshaft 740 and the second sprocket 738 drives an intermediary axle 742 (intended to link
the second sprocket 738 to the second transmission 608). Due to operation of the chain 734,
rotation of the crankshaft 740 in a particular direction produces identical rotation of the
                                                   25

 intermediary axle 742. Also as shown, the chain 734 and sprockets 736, 738 are housed
 within an outer case 744.
 100721 Notwithstanding the embodiments shown in FIGS. 7A-7B, it should be understood
 that a variety of other transmission types can be employed in other embodiments to serve as
 (or in place of) the first transmission 606. For example, in some embodiments, a first wheel
 (or pulley) driven by the crankshaft (power take off from the engine 504) can be coupled to a
 second wheel (or pulley) for driving the intermediate axle (for driving the second
 transmission 608) by way of a belt (rather than a chain such as the chain 734). In still another
 embodiment, a 90 degree type gear driven by the crankshaft can drive another 90 degree type
 gear in contact with that first 90 degree gear, and that second 90 degree gear can drive a
further shaft extending downward (e.g., along the arrow 610 of FIG. 6A) so as to link that
 second gear with a third 90 degree gear that is located proximate the level 611. The third 90
degree gear can turn a fourth 90 degree gear that is coupled to the intermediary axle and thus
provides driving power to the second transmission 608.
{00731 Turning next to FIG, 8, in the present embodiment the second transmission 608 is a
wet plate transmission (or multi-plate wet disk clutch transmission) that receives rotational
power via the intermediary axle 722 (previously shown in FIG. 7A) rotating about the level
611 and provides output power by way of an output shaft 802, which extends downwardly in
the direction of the arrow 614 and links the second transmission to the third transmission 616
within the gear casing 206. The internal components of the wet disk clutch transmission
constituting the second transmission 608 can be designed to operate in a conventional
manner. Thus, operation of the second transmission 608 is controlled by controlling
positioning of a clutch 804 positioned between a reverse gear 806 on the left and a forward
gear 808 on the right of the clutch, where each of the reverse gear, clutch and forward gear
are co-aligned along the axis established by the level 611. Movement of a control block 810
                                                   26

  located to the right of the forward gear 808, to the right or to the left, causes engagement of
 the reverse gear 806 or forward gear 808 by the clutch 804 such that either the reverse gear
  806 or the forward gear 808 is ultimately driven by the rotating intermediary axle 722.
  [0074] Further as shown, each of the reverse gear 806 and forward gear 808 are in contact
 with a driven gear 812, with the reverse gear engaging a left side of the driven gear and the
 forward gear engaging a right side of the driven gear, the reverse and forward gears being
 oriented at 90 degrees relative to the driven gear. The driven gear 812 itself is coupled to the
 output shaft 802 and is configured to drive that shaft. Thus, depending upon whether the
 reverse gear 806 or forward gear 808 is engaged, the driven gear 812 connected to the output
 shaft 802 is either driven in a counterclockwise or clockwise manner when rotational power
 is received via the intermediate axle 722. Also, a neutral position of the clutch 804
 disengages the output shaft 802 from the intermediary axle 722, that is, the driven gear 812 in
 such circumstances is not driven by either the forward gear 808 or the reverse gear 806 and
consequently any rotational power received via the intermediary axle 722 is not provided to
 the output shaft 802.
 [0075] It should be noted that the use of a wet disk clutch transmission in the present
 embodiment is made possible since the wet disk clutch transmission can serve as the second
transmission 608 rather than the third transmission 616 in the gear casing (and since the wet
disk clutch transmission need not bear as large of torques, particularly when the twin pinion
arrangement is employed in the third transmission). Nevertheless, it can further be noted
that, in additional alternate embodiments, the second transmission 608 need not be a wet disk
clutch transmission but rather can be another type of transmission such as a dog clutch
transmission or a cone transmission. That is, although in the present embodiment the wet
disk clutch transmission serves as the second transmission 608, in other embodiments, other
transmission devices can be employed. For example, in other embodiments, the second
                                                   27

  transmission 608 can instead be a cone clutch transmission or a drop clutch transmission.
  Further, in other embodiments, the third transmission (gear casing) 616 can itself employ a
 dog clutch transmission or other type of transmission. Also, in other embodiments, the first
 transmission 606 can serve as the transmission providing forward-neutral-reverse
 functionality instead of the second transmission providing that capability, in which case the
 second transmission can simply employ a pair of bevel gears to change the direction of torque
 flow from a horizontal direction (between the first and second transmissions) to a downward
 direction (to the third transmission/gear case).
 [0076] Turning next to FIG. 9A, internal components of the third transmission 616 are shown
 within a cutaway section of the lower portion 122 of the outboard motor 104 (plus part of the
 mid portion 120). In the present embodiment the third transmission 616 is a twin pinion
 transmission. Given this configuration, the output shaft 802 extending from the second
transmission 608 reaches the plane 126 at which are located a pair of first and second gears
 902 and 904, respectively, that are of equal diameter and engage one another. In the present
 embodiment, the second gear 904 is forward of the first gear 902, with both gears having axes
 parallel to (or substantially parallel to) the steering axis 110 (see FIG. 1) of the outboard
motor 104. First and second additional downward shafts 906 and 908, respectively, extend
downward from the first and second gears 902 and 904, respectively, toward first and second
pinions 910 and 912, respectively, which are located within the gear casing 206 with the first
pinion 910 being aft of the second pinion 912. Due to the interaction of the first and second
gears 902 and 904, while rotation of the first additional downward shaft 906 proceeds in the
same direction as that of the output shaft 802, the rotation of the second additional downward
shaft 908 is in the opposite direction relative to the rotation of the output shaft 802. Thus, the
pinions 910 and 912, respectively, rotate in opposite directions.
                                                     28

  [0077] Further as shown, each of the first and second pinions 910 and 912 engages a
 respective 90 degree type gear that is coupled to the propeller driving output shaft 212 that is
 coupled to the propeller 130 (not shown). The power provided via both of the pinions 910,
 912 is communicated to the propeller driving output shaft 212 by way of a pair of first and
 second 90 degree type gears 916 and 918 or, alternatively, 920 and 922. Only the gears 916,
 918 or the gears 920, 922 are present in any given embodiment (hence, the second set of
 gears 920, 922 in FIG. 9A are shown in phantom to indicate that those gears would not be
 present if the gears 916, 918 were present). As shown, the gears of each pair 916, 918 or 920,
 922 are arranged relative to their respective pinions 910, 912 along opposite sides of the
 pinions such that the opposite rotation of the respective pinions will ultimately cause the
 respective gears of either pair to rotate the propeller driving output shaft 212 in the same
 direction. That is, the first 90 degree type gear 916 is towards the aft side of the first pinion
 910 while the second 90 degree type gear 918 is to the forward side of the pinion 912.
Likewise, while the first 90 degree type gear 920 (shown in phantom) is to the forward side
of the first pinion 910, the second 90 degree type gear 922 is (also shown in phantom) to the
aft side of the second pinion 912.
[0078] Notwithstanding the above discussion, in alternate embodiments the third
transmission 616 can take other forms. For example, as shown in FIG. 9B, in one alternate
embodiment of the third transmission shown as a transmission 901, there is only a single
pinion 924 within the gear case 206 that is directly coupled to the output shaft 802 (elongated
as appropriate), and that pinion drives a single 90 degree type gear 926 coupled to the
propeller driving output shaft 914. In yet a further alternate embodiment of the third
transmission 616, shown as a transmission 903 in FIG. 9C, gears within the gear casing 206
are configured to drive a pair of counter-rotating propellers (not shown). More particularly,
in this embodiment, a single pinion 928 within the gear casing 206 is driven by the output
                                                   29

 shaft 802 (again as appropriately elongated) and that pinion drives both rear and forward 90
 degree type gears 930 and 932, respectively. As shown, the forward 90 degree type gear 932
 drives an inner axle 934 that provides power to a rearmost propeller (not shown) of the
 counter-rotating pair of propellers, while the rear 90 degree type gear 930 drives a concentric
 tubular axle 936 that is coaxially aligned around the first axle 934, The tubular axle 936 is
 connected to the forward one of the propellers of the pair of counter-rotating propellers (not
 shown) and drives that propeller.
 [0079] Referring further to FIG. 10A, an additional cross-sectional view is provided of the
 lower portion 122 of the outboard motor 104, taken along line 10-10 of FIG. 3. Among other
things, this cross-sectional view again shows components of the third transmission 616 of the
 outboard motor 104. The view provided in FIG. I0A particularly also is a cutaway view
with portions of the outboard motor 104 above the plane 126 cutaway, aside from a section
 1002 of the lower portion 122 receiving the output shaft 802 from the second transmission
608 and housing the first and second gears 902, 904 (contrary to the schematic view of FIG.
9A, in FIG. 1OA the section 1002 actually extends slightly above the plane 126 serving as the
general conceptual dividing line between the lower portion 122 and the mid portion 120, but
nevertheless can still be considered part of the lower portion 122 of the outboard motor 104).
In addition to the section 1002, FIG. 1OA also shows the first and second additional
downward shafts 906 and 908, which link the respective first and second gears 902 and 904
with the first and second pinions 910 and 912, respectively. In turn, the first and second
pinions 910 and 912, respectively, are also shown to engage the first and second 90 degree
type gears 916 and 918, respectively, which drive the propeller driving output shaft 212 (as
with FIG. 3, the propeller 130 is not shown in FIG. IOA) extending along the elongated axis
208 of the gear casing 206 above the fin 210. Tapered roller bearings 1003 are further shown
                                                  30

 in FIG. lOA to support the first and second 90 degree type gears 916, 918 and the propeller
 driving output shaft 212 relative to the walls of the third transmission 616.
 [0080] In addition to showing some of the same components of the third transmission 616
 shown schematically in FIG. 9A, FIG. 1OA is also intended to illustrate oil flow within the
 third transmission, and further to illustrate several components/portions of a cooling system
 of the outboard motor 104 and also several components/portions of an exhaust system of the
 outboard motor that are situated within the lower portion 122 (additional
 components/portions of the cooling system and exhaust system of the outboard motor 104 are
 discussed further below with respect to subsequent FIGS.). With respect to oil flow within
the third transmission 616, it should be noted that oil congregates in a reservoir portion 1004
near the bottom of the gear casing 206. By virtue of rotation of the first and second 90 degree
type gears 916 and 918, not only is oil provided to lubricate those gears but also oil is
directed to the first and second pinions 910 and 912, respectively. Flow in this direction,
particularly from the reservoir portion 1004 via the first 90 degree type gear 916 to the first
pinion 910 and a space 1005 above the first pinion is indicated by an arrow 1006 (it will be
understood that oil proceeds in a complementary manner via the second 90 degree type gear
918 to the second pinion 910).
[0081] Upon reaching the space 1005 above the first pinion 910, some of that oil is directed
to the tapered roller bearings 1003 supporting the 90 degree type gears 916, 918 and the
propeller driving output shaft 212 (as well as aft of those components) via a channel 1007.
Further, additional amounts of the oil reaching the space 1005 is directed upward to the first
gear 902 by way of rotation of the first additional downward shaft 906, due to operation of an
Archimedes spiral mechanism 1008 formed between the outer surface of the first additional
downward shaft and the inner surface of the passage within which that downward shaft
extends, as represented by arrows 1010. Ultimately, due to operation of the Archimedes
                                                   31

 spiral mechanism 1008, oil is directed upward through the channel of the Archimedes spiral
 mechanism up to additional channels 1012 linking a region near the top of the Archimedes
 spiral mechanism with the first gear 902 as represented by arrows 1014. Upon reaching the
 first gear 902, the oil lubricates that gear and also further lubricates the second gear 904 due
 to its engagement with the first gear as represented by arrows 1016. Then, some of the oil
 reaching the first and second gears 902, 904, proceeds downward back to the reservoir
 portion 1004 by way of further channels 1018 extending downward between the first and
 second additional downward shafts 906, 908 to the reservoir portion 1004, as represented by
 arrows 1020.
 [0082] Although in this example oil reaches the top of the third transmission 616 and
 particularly both of the first and second gears 902, 904 via the Archimedes spiral mechanism
 1008 associated with the first additional downward shaft 906, such operation presumes that
the first additional downward shaft is rotating in a first direction tending to cause such
 upward movement of the oil. However, this need not always be the case, since the outboard
motor 104 can potentially be operated in reverse. Given this to the be the case, an additional
 Archimedes spiral mechanism 1022 is also formed between the outer surface of the second
additional downward shaft 908 and the inner surface of the passage within which that
downward shaft extends. Also, additional channels 1024 corresponding to the additional
channels 1012 are also formed linking the top of the additional Archimedes spiral mechanism
 1022 with the second gear 904. Given the existence of the additional Archimedes spiral
mechanism 1022 and the additional channels 1024, when the direction of operation of the
outboard motor 104 is reversed from the manner of operation shown in FIG. 1OA, oil
proceeds upward from the reservoir portion 1004 via the second 90 degree type gear 918, the
second pinion 912, an additional space 1023 above the second pinion 912 (corresponding to
the space 1005), the additional Archimedes spiral mechanism 1022, and the additional
                                                    32

  channels 1024 to the second gear 904 and ultimately the first gear 902 as well (after which
 the oil then again proceeds back down to the reservoir portion via the further channels 1018).
 Thus, oil reaches the first and second gears 902 and 904 and the entire third transmission 616
 is lubricated regardless of the direction of operation of the outboard motor 104.
 [0083] Finally, it should also be noted that, assuming a given direction of operation of the
 outboard motor 104, while oil proceeds upward to the first and second gears 102, 104 via one
 of the Archimedes spiral mechanism 1008, 1022, it should not be assumed that the other of
 the Archimedes spiral mechanism 1022, 1008 is not operating in any manner, Rather,
 whenever one of the Archimedes spiral mechanisms 1008, 1022 is tending to direct oil
 upward, the other of the Archimedes spiral mechanisms 1022, 1008 is tending to direct at
 least some of the oil reaching it back down to that one of the pinions 910, 912 and then
 ultimately to the reservoir portion 1004 as well (via the corresponding one of the 90 degree
type gears 916, 918). Thus, in the example of FIG. IOA showing oil to be provided upward
due to operation of the Archimedes spiral mechanism 1008, it should also be understood that
at least some of the oil reaching the second gear 904, rather than being direct downward back
to the reservoir portion 1004 via the further channels 1018, instead proceeds back down to the
reservoir portion via the additional Archimedes spiral mechanism 1022, which in this case
would tend to be directing oil downward. Alternatively, if the outboard motor 104 was
operating in the reverse manner and oil was directed upward via the additional Archimedes
spiral mechanism 1022, then the Archimedes spiral mechanism 1008 would tend to direct at
least some of the oil reaching it via the first gear 902 back down to the reservoir portion 1004
as well.
[0084] As already noted, FIG. 1OA also shows several cooling system components of the
lower portion 122 of the outboard motor 104. In the present embodiment, coolant for the
outboard motor 104 and particularly the engine 504 is provided in the form of some of the
                                                   33

  water 101 within which the marine vessel assembly 100 is situated. More particularly, FIG.
  1OA shows that the outboard motor 104 receives/intakes into a coolant chamber 1028 within
 the lower portion 122 some of the water 101 (see FIG. 1) via multiple water inlets, namely,
 the lower water inlet 522 and two of the upper water inlets 524 already mentioned with
 respect to FIG. 5. As earlier noted, the lower water inlet 522 is positioned along the bottom
 of the gear casing 206, near the front of that casing forward of the fin 210, and the water 101
 proceeds into the coolant chamber 1028 via the lower water inlet generally in a direction
 indicated by a dashed arrow 1030. It should further be noted from FIG. IOA that an oil drain
 screw 1031 allowing for draining of oil from the reservoir portion 1004/third transmission
 616 extends forward from the third transmission toward the lower water inlet 522, from
 which it can be accessed and removed so as to allow oil to drain from the third transmission
 even though the oil drain screw is still located interiorly within the outer housing wall of the
 outboard motor 104. Such positioning of the oil drain screw 1031 is advantageous because,
 in contrast to some conventional arrangements, the oil drain screw does not protrude outward
 beyond the outer housing wall of the outboard motor 104 and thus does not create turbulence
 or drag as the outboard motor passes through the water and also does not as easily corrode
over time due to water exposure.
 [0085] In contrast to the lower water inlet 522, the upper water inlets 524 are respectively
positioned midway along the left and right sides of the lower portion 122 (particularly along
the sides of a strut portion of the lower portion linking the top of the lower portion with the
torpedo-shaped gear casing portion at the bottom), and the water 101 proceeds into the
coolant chamber 1028 via these inlets in a direction generally indicated by a dashed arrow
 1032. It should be understood that, as a cross-sectional view from the right side of the lower
portion 122, FIG. IOA particularly shows the left one of the upper water inlets 524, while the
right one of the upper water inlets (along the right side of the lower portion 122) is shown
                                                   34

  instead in FIG, 5. More particularly, in the present embodiment, each of the respective left
 and right ones of the upper water inlets 524 is formed by the combination of a respective one
 of the cover plates 526 (previously mentioned in FIG. 5) and a respective orifice 528 within
 the respective left or right sidewalls (housing or cowling walls) of the lower portion 122. The
 respective cover plate 526 of each of the upper water inlets 524 serves to partly, but not
 entirely, cover over the corresponding one of the respective orifices 528, so as to direct water
 flow into the coolant chamber 1028 via the respective one of the upper water inlets in a front
 to-rear manner as illustrated by the dashed arrow 1032. The cover plates 526 can be attached
 to the sidewalls of the lower portion 122 in a variety of manners, including by way of bolts or
 other fasteners, or by way of a snap fit.
 [0086] Upon water being received into the coolant chamber 1028 via the lower and upper
water inlets 522, 524, water then proceeds in a generally upward direction as indicated by an
arrow 1029 toward the mid portion 120 (and ultimately to the upper portion 118) of the
 outboard motor 104 for cooling of other components of the outboard motor including the
engine 504 as discussed further below, It should be further noted that, given the proximity of
the coolant chamber 1028 adjacent to (forward of) the third transmission 616, cooling of the
oil and third transmission components (including even the gears 902, 904) can be achieved
due to the entry of coolant into the coolant chamber. Eventually, after being used to cool
engine components in the mid portion 120 and upper portion 118 of the outboard motor 104,
the cooling water is returned back down to the lower portion 122 at the rear of the lower
portion, where it is received within a cavity 1033 within a cavitation plate 1034 along the top
of the lower portion, and is directed out of the outboard motor via one or more orifices
leading to the outside (not shown). It should be further noted that FIG. 10A, in addition to
showing the cavity 1033, also shows the cavitation plate 1034 to support thereon a sacrificial
anode 1036 that operates to alleviate corrosion occurring due to the proximity of the propeller
                                                  35

  130 (not shown), which can be made of brass or stainless steel, to the lower portion 122/gear
 casing 206, which can be made of Aluminum.
 [00871 Although in the present embodiment the cover plates 526 allow water flow in through
 the respective orifices 528 into the coolant chamber 1028, and additionally water flow is
 allowed in through the lower water inlet 522 as well, this need not be the case in all
 embodiments or circumstances, Indeed, it is envisioned that, in at least some embodiments, a
 manufacturer or operator can adjust whether any one or more of these water inlets do in fact
 allow water to enter the outboard motor 104 as well as the manner(s) in which water flow
 into the coolant chamber 1028 is allowed, This can be achieved in a variety of manners. For
 example, rather than employing the cover plates 526, in other embodiments or circumstances
other cover plates can be used to achieve a different manner of water flow into the orifices
 528 of the upper water inlets 524, or to entirely preclude water flow into the coolant chamber
 1028 via the orifices (e.g,, by entirely blocking over covering over the orifices). Likewise, a
cover plate can be placed over the lower water inlet 522 (or the orifice formed thereby) that
would partly or entirely block, or otherwise alter the manner of, water flow into the coolant
chamber 1028.
[0088] Adjustment of the lower and upper water flow inlets 522, 524 in these types of
manners can be advantageous in a variety of respects. For example, in some implementations
or operational circumstances, the outboard motor 104 will not extend very deeply into the
water 101 (e.g., because the water is shallow) and, in such cases, it can be desirable to close
off the upper water flow inlets 524 so that air cannot enter into coolant chamber 1028 if the
upper water flow inlets happen to be positioned continuously above or occasionally exposed
above the water line 128, for example, if the water line is only at about a mid strut level 1038
as shown in FIG. 5 or even lower, further for example, at a level 1040 (which can be
considered the water line or water surface for on plane speed for surfacing propellers).
                                                  36

  Alternatively, in some implementations or operational circumstances, the outboard motor 104
  will extend deeply into the water, such that the water line could be at a high level 1042
  (which can be considered the water line or water surface for on plane speeds for submerged
  propellers) above the upper water flow inlets 524. In such cases, it would potentially be
  desirable to have all of the lower and upper water flow inlets 522, 524 configured to allow for
  entry of the water 101 into the coolant chamber 1028.
  [0089] Yet in still other circumstances, even with the outboard motor 104 extending deeply
  into the water, it can be desirable for the upper water flow inlets 524 to be configured to
 allow water entry therethrough and yet to block water entry via the lower water flow inlet
 522, for example, if the bottom of the lower portion 122 is nearing the bottom of the body of
 water in which the marine vessel assembly 100 is traveling, such that dirt or other
 contaminants are likely to enter into the coolant chamber 1028 along with water entering via
 the lower water flow inlet 522 (but such dirt/contaminants are less likely to be present at the
 higher level of the upper water flow inlets 524). It is often, if not typically, the case that one
 or more of the lower and upper water flow inlets 522, 524 will be partly or completely
 blocked or modified by the influence of one or more cover plates, to adjust for operational
 circumstances or for other reasons.
 [0090] Referring still to FIG. 1OA, in addition to the aforementioned cooling system
components, also shown are several components of the outboard motor 104 that are
associated with the exhaust system. In particular, as discussed above and discussed further
below, exhaust produced by the engine and delivered via the exhaust channels 512 (as shown
in FIG. 5), depending upon the circumstance or embodiment, primarily or entirely directed to
the lower portion 122 and into an exhaust cavity 1044 that is positioned generally aft relative
to the components of the third transmission 616 (e.g., aft of the first and second gears 902,
904 and first and second pinions 910, 912), generally in a direction indicated by an arrow
                                                  37

  1048. The exhaust cavity 1044 opens directly to the rear gear casing 206, To show more
 clearly the manner in which the exhaust cavity 1044 is in communication with the exterior of
 the outboard motor 104 (e.g., to the water 101), further FIG. 103 is provided that shows a
 rear elevation view 1050 of the gear casing 206 of the lower portion 122, cutaway from the
 remainder of the lower portion. For comparison purposes, a diameter 1052 of the gear casing
 206 of FIG. LOB corresponds to a distance 1054 between lines 1056 and 1058 of FIG. 10A.
 [0091] More particularly as shown in FIG. 1OB, exhaust from the exhaust cavity 1044
 particularly is able to exit the outboard motor 104 via any and all of four quarter section
 orifices 1060 (which together make up the orifice 302 of FIG. 3) surrounding the propeller
 driving output shaft 212 and respectively extending circumferentially around that output shaft
 between respective pairs of webs 1062 extending radially inward toward the crankshaft from
 a surrounding wall 1064 of the lower portion 122. Given the particular relationship between
the cross-sectional view of FIG. 1OA and the rear elevation view of FIG. lOB, two of the
webs 1062 are also shown in FIG. 1OA extending radially upward and downward from the
propeller driving output shaft 212 to the surrounding wall 1064 of the lower portion 122. As
shown, the webs 1062 also extend axially along the propeller driving output shaft 212 and
along the surrounding wall 1064. It can further be noted that, in the present embodiment, a
bore 1066 extends between the cavity 1033 that receives cooling water and the exhaust cavity
1044, which allows some amount of excess cooling water within the cavity 1033 to drain out
of outboard motor 104 via the exhaust cavity 1044 and quarter section orifices 1060/orifice
302 (although this manner of draining coolant is not at all the primary manner by which
coolant exits the outboard motor). It should be noted that such interaction with coolant, and
in other locations where the coolant system interacts with the exhaust system, helps to cool
the exhaust in a desirable manner.
                                                  38

 [0092] Turning next to FIG. I1 A, several other components of the exhaust system of the
 outboard motor 104 are shown in additional detail by way of an additional rear elevation
 view of the upper portion 118 and mid portion 120 of the outboard motor, shown with the
 cowling 200 removed, and shown in cutaway so as to exclude the lower portion 122 of the
 outboard motor. In particular as shown, the exhaust conduits 512 receiving exhaust from the
exhaust manifolds 510 along the right and left sides of the engine 504 (see also FIG. 5) are
 shown extending downward toward the lower portion 122 and the exhaust cavity 1044
described with respect to FIG. IOA. As illustrated, the exhaust conduits 512 particularly
direct hot exhaust along the port and starboard sides of the outboard motor 104, so as to
reduce or minimize heat transfer from the hot exhaust to internal components or materials
(e.g., oil) that desirably should be or remain cool.
[0093] Exhaust from the engine 504 is primarily directed by the exhaust conduits 512 to the
exhaust cavity 1044 since exhaust directed out of the outboard motor 104 via the orifice 302
proximate the propeller 130 (not shown) is typically (or at least often) innocuous during
operation of the outboard motor 104 and the marine vessel assembly 100 of which it is a part.
Nevertheless, there are circumstances (or marine vessel applications or embodiments) in
which it is desirable to allow some exhaust (or even possibly much or all of the engine
exhaust) to exit the outboard motor 104 to the air/atmosphere. In this regard, and as already
noted with respect to FIGS. 2 and 3, in the present embodiment the outboard motor 104 is
equipped to allow at least some exhaust to exit the outboard motor via the exhaust bypass
outlets 204. More particularly, in the present embodiment, at least some exhaust from the
engine 504 proceeding through the exhaust conduits 512 is able to leave the exhaust conduits
and proceed out via the exhaust bypass outlets 204. So that exhaust exiting the outboard
motor 104 in this manner is not overly noisy, further in the present embodiment such exhaust
proceeds only indirectly from the exhaust conduits to the exhaust bypass outlets 204, by way
                                                  39

 of a pair of left side and right side mufflers 1102 and 1104, respectively, which are arranged
 on opposite sides of the transfer case 514 aft of the engine 504 within which is positioned the
 first transmission 606.
 [0094] Further as shown in FIG. 1IA, each of the left side muffler 1102 and right side
 muffler is coupled to a respective one of the exhaust conduits 512 by way of a respective
 input channel 1106. Each of the mufflers 1102, 1104 then muffles/diminishes the sound
 associated with the received exhaust, by way of any of a variety of conventional muffler
 internal chamber arrangements. Further, in the present embodiment, the left and right side
 mufflers 1102, 1104 are coupled to one another by way of a crossover passage 1108, by
 which the sound/air patterns occurring within the two mufflers are blended so as to further
 diminish the noisiness (and improve the harmoniousness) of those sound/air patterns. As a
 result of the operations of the mufflers 1102, 1104 individually and in combination (by way
of the crossover passage 1108), exhaust output provided from the respective mufflers at
respective output ports 1110 is considerably less noisy and less objectionable than it would
otherwise be. The exhaust output from the output ports 1110 thus can be provided to the
exhaust bypass outlets 204 (again see FIGS. 2 and 3) so as to exit the outboard motor 104.
 [00951 Turning to FIG. 1IB, features of an alternate exhaust bypass outlet system are
illustrated, which can also (or alternatively) be implemented in the outboard motor 104. In
this arrangement, again the exhaust conduits 512 are shown through which exhaust flows
downward to the lower portion 122 of the outboard motor. Additionally, portions of the input
channels 1156 are shown that link the exhaust conduits 512 with bypass outlet orifices 1158
in the cowl 200 of outboard motor. Further as shown, an idle relief muffler 1160 is coupled
to each of the input channels 1156 by way of respective intermediate channels 1162
extending between the idle relief muffler and intermediate regions 1164 of the input channels.
Exhaust as processed by the idle relief muffler 1160 eventually is returned to the input
                                                   40

  channels 1156 prior to those input channels 1156 reaching the bypass outlet orifices 1158 by
  way of respective return channels 1166. Further, to govern the amount of exhaust passing
  through the input channels 1156 from the exhaust conduits 512 to the bypass outlet orifices
  1158, respective rotatable (and controllable) throttle plates 1168 are positioned within the
 input channels 1156 in between the locations at which the respective intermediate channels
  1162 encounter the respective input channels (that is, at the respective intermediate regions
  1164) and the locations at which the respective return channels 1166 encounter the respective
 input channels. As result, the amount of exhaust that leaves the outboard motor via the
 orifices 1158 can be controlled, and exhaust flow can be permitted, limited, and/or
 completely precluded.
 [0096] FIGS. 12, 13, and 14 are enlarged perspective, right side elevational, and front views,
 respectively, of a mounting system 108 in accordance with embodiments of the instant
 disclosure. Mounting system 108 generally links, or otherwise connects, an outboard motor
to a marine vessel (for example, the exemplary outboard motor 104 and the exemplary
marine vessel 102 shown and described in FIG. 1). More particularly, the mounting system
 108 connects the outboard motor to the rear or transom area of the marine vessel and, in this
way, the mounting system can also be termed a "transom mounting system". In accordance
with at least some embodiments, mounting system 108 generally includes a swivel bracket
structure 1202, which is cast or otherwise formed. Extending from the swivel bracket
structure 1202 is a pair of clamp bracket structures 1204, 1206, respectively. In at least some
embodiments, the clamp bracket structures 1204, 1206 are generally mirror images of, and
thus are symmetric with respect to, one another and in this respect can be said to extend
equally, or be equally disposed, with respect to the swivel bracket structure 1202. The clamp
bracket structures 1204, 1206 are generally used to secure the mounting system to the marine
vessel transom. In accordance with various embodiments, clamp bracket structures 1204,
                                                  41

  1206 include respective upper regions 1208, 1210, a plurality of holes 1212, 1214 for
 receiving connectors or fasteners 1216, 1218. In addition, the clamp bracket structures 1204,
  1206 include, respective lower regions 1220, 1222, and slots 1224, 1226, for receiving
 connectors or fasteners 1228, 1230. Connectors 1216, 1218, 1228, and 1230 are used to affix
 the clamp bracket structures 1204, 1206, and more generally the mounting system 108 to the
 marine vessel. Slots 1224 and 1226 provide for additional variability and/or adjustability
 such mounting by permitting the fasteners to be located in a variety of locations (e.g., higher
 or lower). Connectors 1216 and 1218 (only a few of which are shown) and 1228 and
  1230 can, as shown, take the form of nut-bolt arrangements, but it should be understood that
 other fasteners are contemplated and can be used. Similarly, with regard to the holes 1212
 and 1214, and slots 1224 and 1226, it should be understood that the size, shape, number and
 precise placement, among other items, can vary.
 [0097] The swivel bracket structure 1202 further includes a first or upper steering yoke
 structure 1240, as well as a second or lower steering yoke structure 1242 that are joined by
way of a tubular or substantially tubular structure 1246 (also called a steering tube structure).
The first yoke structure 1240 includes a first or upper crosspiece mounting structure 1248 that
 is, in at least some embodiments, centered or substantially centered about the steering tube
structure 1246, and the crosspiece mounting structure terminates in a pair of mount
portions 1250, 1252 having passages 1254, 1256, respectively, which are used to couple the
swivel bracket structure, typically via bolts or other fasteners (not shown), to the outboard
engine via upper mounting brackets or motor mounts 520 (FIG. 5). The second or lower yoke
structure 1242 similarly includes a pair of mount portions 1258, 1260 having passages 1262,
 1264, respectively, which further couple, again typically via bolts or other fasteners (not
shown), to the outboard engine, typically via lower mounting brackets or motor mounts 518
(FIG. 5) and as well be described below. A steering axis 1266 extends longitudinally along
                                                  42

 the center of steering tube structure 1246 and thereby provides an axis of rotation, which in
 use is typically a vertical or substantially vertical axis of rotation, for the upper and lower
 steering yoke structures 1240, 1242 and the swivel bracket structure 1202 to which they are
joined. Swivel bracket structure 1202 is rotatable about a tilt tube structure 1243 having
 a tilt axis 1245 and thus also relative clamp bracket structures 1206 and 1208. The tilt axis
 1245 generally is an axis of rotation or axis of pivot (e.g., permitting tiling and/or trimming
 about the axis), but for simplicity the axis is generally referred to simply as a tilt axis. When
the outboard motor is in use, the tilt axis 1245 is typically a horizontal, or substantially
horizontal, axis of rotation.
 [0098] FIG. 15 is a schematic illustration of the mounting system 108 having the swivel
bracket structure 1202 and clamp bracket structures 1206 and 1208. With reference to FIGS.
 12 and 15. Passages 1254 and 1256 are separated by a distance "dl " and passages 1262 and
 1264 are separated by a distance "d2". Similarly, passages 1254 and 1262 are separated by a
distance "d3" and passages 1256 and 1264 are separated by a distance "d4". As can be seen,
distance dl is longer or greater than distance d2. It should be understood that distances d1-d4
referenced here are generally taken from centers of the respective passages which, as shown,
are typically cylindrical or substantially cylindrical in shape. More generally, it should be
understood that the distance separating the respective upper mounting portions is greater than
the distance separating the lower mounting portions. In addition, other shapes f br the
passages are contemplated and the relative position for establishing the respective distances
can vary to convenience. And more generally, connections can be accomplished using other
structures besides passages, or external fastening mechanisms, and such modifications are
contemplated and considered within the scope of the present disclosure.
[00991 An axis 1266 is illustrated to extend between passages 1264 and 1266 and further,
and axis 1268, is depicted to extend between passages 1256 and 1264. For illustrative
                                                     43

 purposes, a center axis 1270 is provided bisecting the distances dl and d2. As can be seen,
 by axes 1266 and 1268 converge on axis 1270, as shown, at a point of convergence1272
 located below or beyond yoke structure 1242 and an angle theta is established between these
 axes. Advantageously, having a distance dl larger than d2 increases steering stability. More
 particularly, when the swivel bracket structure 1202 is coupled to a horizontal crankshaft
 engine of the kind described herein, resultant roll torque is reduced or minimized.
 [00100]          It is noted that while in the instant embodiment both the upper and lower yoke
 structures include a pair of passages, it should be understood that this can vary but yet still
 provide for the aforementioned convergence. For example, the lower yoke structure could
 include only a single mounting portion, with the single mounting portion (which again can
 include a passage) for mounting the yoke structure to swivel bracket structure located below
 and between the pair of upper mounting portions of the first or upper steering yoke structure
 such that the there is a similar convergence from the upper mounting portions to the lower
 mounting portion. In at least one embodiment the single mount portion would be generally
 situated, and in at least some instances centered about, the steering axis.
 1001011          Referring to FIG. 16, an enlarged top view of the mounting system 108 of
FIG. 12 is shown. FIG. 17 illustrates a cross sectional view of the mounting system of FIG.
 12 along or through tilt tube structure 1243. The tilt tube 1243 further provides a housing for
a power steering cylinder 1280 having a central axis 1282 that coincides, or substantially
coincides, with the tilt axis 1245. The power steering cylinder includes a power steering
piston 1284 that translates or otherwise moves within the steering cylinder 1280 in response
to power steering fluid (e.g., hydraulic fluid) movement. Actuation of the steering cylinder
1280 provides translation of a steering arm mechanism 1286 to actuate steering of the swivel
bracket structure 1202 about the steering axis 1266. Positioning the power steering cylinder
inside the tilt tube, the need for additional mounting space for the power steering components
                                                     44

 is eliminated. Further, such positioning accommodates the scaling of the structures, with the
 relative trim tube and power steering tube structure size typically related (e.g., based on
 engine size, vessel sized, etc.).
 [00102]           Several other considerations can be noted in relation to the power steering
 operation of the outboard motor 104. For example, in accordance with the present
 embodiment, a tilt tube structure (or, more generally a "tilt structure") surrounds a power
 steering actuator, the actuator comprising a hydraulic piston. However, it should be
 understood that, in accordance with alternative embodiments, a variety of actuators can be
 used, including by way of example, an electronic linear actuator, a ball screw actuator, a gear
motor actuator, and a pneumatic actuator, among others. Various actuators can also be
 employed to control tilting/trimming operation of the outboard motor 104.
 [00103]          It should further be noted that the degree of rotation (e.g., pivoting, trimming,
tilting) that can take place about a tilt tube structure axis of rotation (or more generally a "tilt
structure axis of rotation") can vary depending upon the embodiment or circumstance. For
example, in accordance with at least some embodiments, trimming can typically comprise a
rotation of from about -5 degrees from horizontal to 15 degrees from horizontal, while tilting
can comprise a greater degree of rotation, for example, from about 15 degrees from
horizontal to about 70 degrees from horizontal. Further, it can be noted that, as the power
steering structure (or other actuator) size is increased, the tilt tube structure that at least
partially surrounds or houses the power steering structure is increased. Such increase in size
of the tilt tube structure generally increases the strength of the tilt tube structure. The tilt tube
structure can be constructed from steel or other similarly robust material.
100104]          FIG. 18 is a right side view of outboard motor 104 showing an illustrative
outboard motor water cooling system 1300 in accordance with various embodiments of the
present disclosure. Cooling water flows throughout the motor to cool various components as
                                                    45

  shown and described, and such cooling water flow is generally represented by various
  arrows. As previously described in detail with respect to FIG. IA, the outboard motor 104
  receives/intakes, indicated by arrows 1301, 1302 into the lower portion 122 some of the water
  101 (see FIG. 1)via multiple water inlets 522, 524, respectively. Cooling water then
 proceeds generally upwardly, as indicated by an arrow 1029, toward and into the mid portion
  120 of the outboard motor 104 to provide a cooling affect. In accordance with at least some
 embodiments and as shown, cooling water proceeds generally rearwardly and then generally
 upwardly (e.g., vertically or substantially vertically) as indicated by an arrows 1306 and
  1308, respectively, in the mid portion 120 past the second transmission oil reservoir 624
 (shown in phantom) and gears 902 and 904 (which can be considered part of the lower
 portion 122) and thereby cools the oil in the reservoir and the gears.
 [00105]         Cooling water traverses generally upwardly, as indicated by arrow 1310, past,
 and in so doing cools, the second transmission 608, and into the upper portion 118, which
 includes the engine 504. More specifically, and in accordance with at least some
 embodiments, cooling water traverses forwardly, as indicated by arrow 1312 to a water pump
 1315 where it proceeds, in the embodiment shown, upwardly, as indicated by arrow 1316.
 Water that is pumped by the water pump 1315 exits the water pump, after doing so, flows, as
indicated by arrow 1318, into and through, so as to cool, an engine heat exchanger and an
engine oil cooler, which are generally collectively referenced by numeral 1320. The engine
heat exchanger and engine oil cooler 1320 serve to cool a heat exchanger fluid (e.g., glycol,
or other fluid) and oil, respectively, within or associated with the engine 504 and at least in
these ways accomplish cooling of the engine. A circulation pump circulates the cooled
glycol (or other fluid) within the engine 504.
[00106]          After exiting the engine heat exchanger and engine oil cooler 1320, water
flows generally downwardly, toward and into a chamber surrounding the exhaust channels
                                                   46

  512 (one of which is shown), as indicated by arrow 1322, where it then flows back upwardly,
 as indicated by arrows 1324, 1326, into the exhaust manifold 510. It is noted that, while in
 the chamber (not shown) surrounding the exhaust channels 512, cooling water runs in a
 direction counter to the direction of exhaust flow so as to cool the exhaust, with such counter
 flow offering improved cooling (e.g., due to the temperature gradient involved). From the
 exhaust manifold 510, cooling water flows downwardly, as indicated by arrow 1328, through
 the mufflers 1102, 1104 and past the first transmission 514 and, in so doing, cools the
 mufflers and the transmission. Cooling water continues to proceed out of the outboard motor
 104 and into the sea, typically via the cavitation plate 1034 along the top of the lower portion
 122.
 100107]         From the above description, it should be apparent that the cooling system in at
 least some embodiments actually includes multiple cooling systems/subsystems that are
particularly (thought not necessarily exclusively) suited for use with outboard motors having
horizontal crankshaft engines such as the outboard motor 104 with the engine 504. In
particular, in at least some embodiments, the outboard motor includes a cooling system
having both a closed-loop cooling system (subsystem), for example, a glycol-cooling system
of the engine where the glycol is cooled by the heat exchanger. This can be beneficial on
several counts, for example, in that the engine need not be as expensive in its design in order
to accommodate externally-supplied water (seawater) for its internal cooling (e.g., to limit
corrosion, etc.). At the same time, the outboard motor also can include a self-draining
cooling system (subsystem) in terms of its intake and use of water (seawater) to provide
coolant to the heat exchanger (for cooling the glycol of the closed-loop cooling system) and
otherwise, where this cooling system is self-draining in that the water (seawater) eventually
passes out of/drains out of the outboard motor 104. Insofar as the engine 504 includes both a
closed-cooling system and a self-draining cooling system, the engine includes both a
                                             47

 circulation pump for circulating glycol in the former (distinctive for an outboard motor) and a
 water (e.g., seawater) pump for circulating water in the latter. High circulation velocity is
 achievable even at low engine speeds. Further by virtue of these cooling systems
 (subsystems), enhanced engine operation is achievable, for example, in terms of better
 thermally-optimized combustion chamber operation/better combustion, lower emission
 signatures, and relative avoidance of hot spots and cold spots.
 [00108]         Many modifications to the above cooling system 1300 (and associated cooling
water flow circuit) are contemplated and considered within the scope of the present
disclosure. For example, the water pump 135, or an additional water pump, can be provided
in the lower portion 122 (e.g., in a lower portion gear case) to pump water from a different
location. In addition, and as already noted, various modifications can be made engine
components and structures already described herein, including their placement, size, and the
like and the above-described cooling system can be modified account for such changes.
[00109]         FIG. 19 is a schematic illustration of an alternative arrangement for an
outboard motor water cooling system 1900, in accordance with various embodiments of the
present disclosure. In the present illustration, cooling water flow is again represented by
various arrows. As shown, cooling water flows, as indicated by arrow 1902, into the water
inlets 522, 524. In the instant exemplary embodiment, cooling water flows, as indicated by
arrow 1904 and arrows 1906 and 1908, to first and second water pumps 1907, 1909 and, in so
doing, cools the pumps. Water that is pumped by the water pump 1907 exits the water pump
and, after doing so, flows, as indicated by arrow 1910, into and through an engine heat
exchanger 1912 and then an engine oil cooler 1914. While shown as separate coolers, it is
understood that the engine heat exchanger 1912 and the engine oil cooler 1914 can be
integrated as a collective unit (e.g., as described with regard to FIG. 18). The engine heat
exchanger 1912 serves to cool engine coolant (e.g., glycol, or similar fluid), and the engine
                                                   48

 oil cooler 1914 serves to cool oil, and at least in these ways cooling of the engine 504 is
 accomplished, After exiting the engine heat exchanger 1912 and engine oil cooler 1914,
 cooling water flows, as indicated by arrows 1916 and 1918 out to the sea, via a cavity 1033,
which can be located within the cavitation plate in the lower portion 122.
 [00110]          In addition to, or in parallel with the cooling of the engine heat exchanger
 1912 and the engine oil cooler 1914 as just described, water is pumped by the water pump
 1907 and proceeds into a chamber (not shown) surrounding the exhaust channels 512. In so
doing cools exhaust flowing within the channels. In at least some embodiments, the cooling
water generally traverses, as indicated by 1920, the engine 504, and it is noted that such water
flow may, but need not necessarily, serve to provide a cooling effect for the engine. Cooling
water then flows to and cools the intercooler 1922 (or charge cooler) as indicated by arrow
 1924, 1926. As indicated by arrows 1930, 1932, cooling water flows through the mufflers
 I102, 1104, as well as past the first transmission 514, and in so doing, the mufflers and the
first transmission are cooled. Finally water proceeds, as indicated by arrows 1934, 1936 from
the mufflers 1102, 1104, as well as from the first transmission 514, as indicated by arrow
1938, out of the outboard motor to the sea, for example, via a cavity 1033.
[00111]          Again, it is noted that many modifications to the above cooling systems are
contemplated and considered within the scope of the present disclosure. For example,
cooling of the intercooler 1922 can be separated from the cooling of the exhaust channels, the
mufflers and the first transmission. An additional water pump and an additional heat
exchanger (e.g., a dedicated heat exchanger) can be provided to accomplish such separated
cooling of the intercooler 1922 (and associated cooling passages), allowing for the intercooler
utilize a lighter fluid, such as glycol. Again, various modifications can be made engine
components and structures already described herein, including respective placement, size,
                                                     49

 and the like and the above-described cooling system 1900 can be modified account fbr such
 changes.
 [00112]         FIG. 20 is a right side view of the outboard motor 104 including a rigid
 connection of multiple motor components or structures to create a rigid structure or rigid
 body structure, indicated by dashed line 2000, and related method of assembly of the rigid
 structure, is shown in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The outboard motor
 can include a horizontal crankshaft engine 504. The engine 504 (or a surface or portion of
the engine), can be bolted or otherwise connected to the first transmission 514 (or a surface or
portion of the first transmission). The engine 504 is oriented horizontally, or substantially
 horizontally, and a horizontal plane representative of such orientation is indicated
illustratively by horizontal dashed line 2002. The first transmission 514 is oriented vertically,
or substantially vertically, and a vertical plane representative of such orientation is indicated
illustratively by vertical dashed line 2004. The first transmission 514 (or a surface or portion
of the first transmission) can be bolted or otherwise connected to the second transmission 608
(or a surface or portion of the second transmission). The second transmission 608 is oriented
horizontally, or substantially horizontally, and a horizontal plane representative of such
orientation is indicated illustratively by horizontal dashed line 2006. And the second
transmission 608 (or a surface or portion of the second transmission, such as a cover portion)
can be bolted or otherwise connected to the engine 504 (or a surface or portion of the engine)
by way of a vertically oriented additional structure 2007, which can take the form of, fbr
example, a cast motor structure or frame portion. A vertical, or substantially vertical, plane
representative of such orientation is indicated illustratively by vertical dashed line 2008.
[00113]          Rigid body structure 2000 thus is created by the interaction of these four
structures engaged with one another. In accordance with at least one aspect and in the
present illustrated embodiment, rigid body structure 2000 is rectangular or substantially
                                                    50

  rectangular in shape. Fastener 2010 is provided. Fastener 2010 permits adjustability needed
  (e.g., due to manufacturing tolerances and other variations) in the assembly of rigid body
  structure 2000 and particularly allows for variation in the spacing between the forwardmost
 portion of the engine and the forward most portion of the second transmission, that is, the
 spacing afforded by the additional structure 2007. In accordance with at least some
 embodiments, the center of gravity 2012 of the outboard motor 504 is located between the
 vertical (or substantially vertical) planes 2008 and 2004 of the rigid body structure 2000 and
 substantially at the plane 2002 of the engine 504. Creation and position of the rigid body
 structure 2000 in accordance with embodiments of the invention, including those which are
 illustrated, is particularly beneficial in that it offers resistance to bending and torsional
 moments (or similar stresses) which may result during operation of the outboard motor 504.
 1001141          FIG. 21 is a reduced right side view of the outboard motor 104 and a mounting
 system 108, the mounting system being used to mount the outboard motor to a marine vessel
 as previously described. FIG. 22 is a schematic cross sectional view, taken along line 22-22
 of FIG. 21, showing a progressive mounting assembly 2200. FIG. 22 shows the lower
steering yoke structure 1242 mounted or otherwise connected to the lower mounting bracket
structure 518 by way of bolts or other fasteners 2201 so that the mid portion 120 of the
outboard motor 104 is linked to the mounting system 108. Also shown is steering tube
structure 1246 which provides, as already described, for rotation of the mounting system 108
about the steering axis. A thrust mount structure 2202 is further provided between the mid
portion 120 and the lower steering yoke structure 1246. Take together, it can be seen that the
progressive mounting assembly includes the lower steering yoke structure 1242, the lower
mounting bracket structure 518, and the thrust mount structure 2202,
1001151           FIGS. 23A-C are schematic illustrations depicting the progressive nature of
the progressive mounting structure 2200 of FIG. 21 at various levels of operation. With
                                                      51

 references to FIG. 23A in particular, along with FIGS. 21 and 22, the progressive mounting
 structure 2200 is shown at an operational level having a low load (e.g., the motor 504 powers
 the marine vessel 102 at a slow or very slow speed) powering a watercraft. Accordingly,
 thrust mount structure 2202, which is disposed relative to, and possibly directly contacting
 motor mid portion 120, but with a space or air gap separating the thrust mount structure 2202
 from the lower yoke assembly 1242.
 100116]         With references to FIG. 23B in particular, along with FIGS. 21 and 22, the
 progressive mounting structure 2200 is shown at an operational level having a medium load
 (e.g., the motor 504 powers the marine vessel 102 at a medium or mid level speed).
Accordingly, thrust mount structure 2202, which is disposed relative to, and possibly directly
 contacting motor mid portion 120, now contacts the lower yoke assembly 1242. That is, the
 thrust mount structure 2202 has moved relative the lower yoke assembly 1242 (e.g., such
relative movement is permitted by way of the fasteners 2201), and the space or air gap
previously separating the thrust mount structure 2202 from the lower yoke assembly 1242 is
eliminated.
[00117]          With references to FIG, 23C in particular, along with FIGS. 21 and 22, the
progressive mounting structure 2200 is shown at an operational level having a high load (e.g.,
the motor 504 powers the marine vessel 102 at a high speed). Accordingly, thrust mount
structure 2202, which is disposed relative to, and possibly directly contacting motor mid
portion 120. The space or air gap previously separating the thrust mount structure 2202 from
the lower yoke assembly 1242 is eliminated and the thrust mount structure 2202 contacts the
lower yoke assembly 1242. The thrust mount structure 2202 is shown in a deformed state
because it now serves to transfer force created by the high level of operation.
[001181         It should be understood that the aforementioned progressive mounting system
previously described is illustrative in nature and various alternatives and modifications to the
                                                  52

 progressive mounting system can be made. Also, the progressive mounting structure
 facilitates changes to the thrust mount structure. For example, a thrust mount structure can,
 with relative ease, be removed and replaced with another thrust mount having different
 characteristics, such as a different size, shape or stiffness. Advantageously, the progressive
 mounting system is capable of being tuned or changed to accommodate a wide range (from
 very low to very high) of thrust placed on the system in a manner that is compact and suitable
 for a wide variety of outboard motor mounting applications.
 [00119]          From the above discussion, it should be apparent that numerous embodiments,
 configurations, arrangements, manners of operation, and other aspects and features of
 outboard motors and marine vessels employing outboard motors are intended to be
encompassed within the present invention. Referring particularly to FIG. 24, a rear elevation
view is provided of internal components one alternate embodiment of an outboard motor
2404. In this embodiment, as with the outboard motor 104, there is a horizontal crankshaft
engine 2406 with a rearwardly-extending crankshaft extending along a crankshaft axis 2408
at an upper portion 2409 of the outboard motor, a first transmission having an outer perimeter
2410, a second transmission 2412 within a mid portion 2413 of the outboard motor, and a
third transmission 2414 at a lower portion 2415 of the outboard motor. Also, there is an
intake manifold 2416 atop the engine 2406, exhaust manifold ports 2418 extending outward
from port and starboard sides of the engine, and both cylinder heads 2420 of the engine and
an engine block 2422 of the engine are visible, as is a flywheel 2424 mounted adjacent the
rear of the engine. A gearcase mounting flange 2425 is further illustrated that can be
understood as dividing the lower portion 2415 from the mid portion 2413, albeit it can also be
understood as within the lower portion only. Further, in this embodiment, a supercharger
2426 is positioned above the engine block 2422 between the cylinder heads 2420. Although
not shown, in still another embodiment a turbocharger can instead be positioned at the
                                                    53

 location of the supercharger 2426 or, further alternatively, one or more turbochargers can be
 positioned at locations 2429 beneath the manifold ports 2418.
 1001201          Although in the embodiment of FIG. 24, port and starboard tubular exhaust
 conduits 2428 and 2430 extend downward (similar to the exhaust conduits of the engine 104)
 from the exhaust manifold ports 2418 to the lower portion 2415. However, in the
 embodiment of FIG. 24, the tubular exhaust conduits serve as more than merely conduits for
 exhaust. Rather, in the embodiment of FIG. 24, the tubular exhaust conduits collectively
 serve as a tubular mounting frame 2432 for the outboard motor 2404. In particular, the
 tubular mounting frame 2432 is capable of connecting the upper portion 2409, the mid
portion 2413, and lower portion 2415 of the outboard motor 2404 with one another. Further,
 in still other embodiments, in addition to or instead of conducting exhaust, one or more tubes
of such a tubular mounting frame can conduct coolant or other fluids as well.
100121]          From the above discussion, it should be understood therefore that the present
invention is intended to encompass numerous features, components, characteristics, and
outboard motor designs. Among other things, in at least some embodiments, the outboard
motors encompassed herein are designed to be fastened to the aft end of a boat or other
marine vessel (e.g., the transom) and to power or thrust the marine vessel through the use of a
horizontal crankshaft engine. Further, in at least some embodiments, the outboard motors
employ an engine that is coupled to a first transmission, a second transmission, and a third
transmission, and/or is capable of steering about a steering axis and/or being rotatably
trimmed about a trim axis. Further, in at least some embodiments, the outboard motor
includes three portions, namely, upper, middle, and lower portions.
[00122]          Also, in at least some embodiments, the engine is mounted above the transom
with the crankshaft centerline substantially horizontal and substantially parallel to a keel
longitudinal axis of the boat (parallel to the keel line or other bow-to stern axis) when
                                                   54

 trimmed to a nominal angle of 0 degrees (the steering axis can be perpendicular a sea level
 surface). The engine power take off (PTO) faces aft and rotably drives a first transmission
that transfers torque downwardly to a second transmission, which transmits torque through
 and 90 degree corner and then into a vertical output shaft than can be also be termed a
driveshaft. The driveshaft transmits the torque to a third transmission, typically within a
gearcase, which directs the torque into a horizontal propeller shaft where a propeller transfers
the torque into thrust. The horizontal propeller shaft is typically located at or below the
surface of the water so as to enable single or counter-rotating twin propellers. In at least
some embodiments, the architecture of the outboard motor is intended to achieve good
balance on the transom of the boat/marine vessel, good vibration isolation, and good steering
stability across a wide operating speed range.
[00123]         Additionally, in at least some embodiments, a pivot axis for trimming and
tilting the outboard motor is located at the top of the transom, below the crankshaft centerline
ahead of the steering axis (as noted above, the engine also is entirely or substantially above
the trimming axis). A vertical steering axis is created by the swivel bracket which is
constrained at the pivot axis for the trim system by the clamp brackets which are equally
disposed to either side of the swivel bracket for securing the outboard to the transom. The
outboard motor can be mounted to the swivel bracket with a plurality (e.g., four) rubber
mounts attached by the steering head shafting which is rotably mounted to the swivel bracket.
The four rubber mounts create an elastic mounting axis which is designed to be aft of the
vertical steering axis. Mountings as described are in the center portion of the outboard, or
midsection. Extending the mounting axis upward to the upper portion where the engine is
located, the elastic axis will be substantially proximal to the engine mounting positions which
are located on opposite sides of the engine block proximal the midline of the crankshaft
which is also proximate the vertical plane which contains the center of gravity of the engine
                                                   55

  whereby the discrete engine center of gravity as a separate component is mounted to the
 outboard's elastic mounting axis proximate the engines center of gravity. Extending the
 elastic axis downward to the lower portion, the gearcase, to the intersection of the propshaft
 centerline, the steering axis will be forward of the elastic axis and the elastic axis will be
 forward of the gearcase plan view center of pressure. With this architecture steering and
 vibration stability can be achieved.
 [00124]         Further, a mounting system that generally connects an outboard motor to a
 marine vessel is described in connection with a wide variety of embodiments. The mounting
 system accommodates significant thrust resulting from, for example, high power output by
 the engine during operation. As disclosed and in accordance with a variety of embodiments,
 the distance separating upper mounts or mounting portions is greater than the distance
 separating the lower mounts or mounting portions (or in the case of a single lower mount, the
 single lower mount or mounting portion is between and below the upper mounting portions).
 Such upper mount structure "spread" results in increased steering stability. In at least some
 further embodiments, an additional mounting structure (e.g., a thrust mount) can be included
below the upper mount structure (e.g., yoke structure) for additional engagement with the
outboard motor under at least some operating conditions. In such embodiments, there are
five (or possibly four, if there is only one lower mount) mounts in the mounting assembly.
[00125]          Further, in at least some embodiments, the engine is mounted to a tubular
assembly which provides mountings for the engine, first, second and third transmissions, and
the elastic mounts. The tubular structure can be constructed in such a way as to utilize the
rear tubular segments as exhaust passages thus eliminating extra plumbing within the
outboard system. The upper portion of the tubular structure provides a pair of mounting
pads, disposed on opposite sides of the longitudinal centerline, which are designed to receive
the engine mounts. Further, the upper portion provides a rear engine mounting surface
                                                   56

 designed to mount to the rear face of the engine to which the first transmission will also
 fasten. Thus, the rear mounting surface of the tubular structure is a plate that mounts the
 engine on one side and the first transmission on the other side. This method of mounting
 located the engines center of gravity as described above as well as providing a third rear
mount for additional stability while under operating conditions. Additionally, the middle
section of the tubular midsection provides a mounting surface for the second transmission.
Below the mounting surface for the second transmission, the midsection provides for an oil
sump for the transmission as well as a fuel sump and location for a high pressure fuel pump.
Further, the lower section of the midsection provides for the mounting of the third
transmission, the gearcase.
100126]         Additionally, it least some embodiments, the present invention concerns an
outboard motor and/or marine vessel assembly having any one or more of the following
features:
     1)    the center of gravity of the engine is vertically above the crankshaft center line;
     2)    torque flow: horizontal through engine, downward thru first transmission, forward
        and     downward thru second transmission, downward and rearward thru third
        transmission;
     3)    wet clutch mounted in the midsection with a horizontal input and a vertical output;
     4)    tubular midsection construction;
     5)    separate oil pumps - dual engine pumps, transmission pump, and gearcase pump;
     6)    horizontal crankshaft with propeller below and engine vertically above;
     7)    dry sump with horizontal crankshaft;
     8)    engine oil proximate the transmission oil, and cooled by sea water;
     9)    outboard engine with integrated circulation pump and a separate remote circulation
           pump drive by an accessory belt for raw seawater;
                                                   57

  10)      air to glycol water cooling of an aluminum intercooler;
 11)      horizontal crankshaft outboard w/ supercharger located in the vee of a vee type
       engine with the supercharger located below the intake manifold;
 12)      a horizontal crankshaft outboard engine with at least a turbo charger located in the
       V of a V-type engine with exhaust manifold also in the V;
 13)      a horizontal crankshaft engine with turbo chargers disposed on either side of the
          crankcase;
 14)      a horizontal crankshaft outboard with a supercharger above crankshaft centerline
      with      an intercooler above crankshaft center line, with an intake manifold inlet
      above the         supercharger;
 15)      a tubular midsection construction with exhaust conduit integrated as a structural
         member with the midsection;
 16)     the above including the combination of a water outlet tube with an exhaust tube;
 17)     outboard motor with exhaust downwardly toward the propeller and upwardly
      toward a          throttled outlet located above the waterline;
 18)     closure of exhaustthrottle valves opens a third passage for idle relief through an
                exhaust attenuation circuit;
19) an exhaust throttle valve that actuates a water control circuit for an idle relief
      muffler;
20)      a horizontally disposed inlet to an exhaust system, without a riser, that flows
         downwardly toward the propeller;
21)      outboard engine with accessory drive ahead of the driveshaft centerline;
22)      an outboard with accessory drive in front of driveshaft centerline and a
     transmission      behind the driveshaft centerline;
23)      an outboard with a flywheel behind driveshaft centerline;
                                                   58

24)      flywheel behind an engine, in front of a transmission, above a second transmission,
        above a third transmission;
25)     a horizontal crankshaft outboard in combination with a wet clutch in the second
        transmission and a counter rotating propeller set;
26)     a 90 degree transmission above the gearcase allowing torque to be evenly split
        between front and rear gears in both forward and reverse rotations to minimize
     torpedo          diameter by eliminating shifting in the gearcase;
27)     the above feature where the 90 degree transmission drives a third transmission with
     2 input pinions and a single output shaft, and/or the above feature in combination
    with     actively managed exhaust bypass to allow increased reverse thrust;
28)     water cooling flow path where the water induced by vacuum water the gearcase,
    then     passes the first transmission, then the second transmission, then the engine oil,
    to the inlet of a sea pump, where it is pressurized to pass through a heat exchanger,
    then up to        the exhaust manifolds, then downwardly, then mixed with the exhaust
    and discharged,           some with the exhaust and some without;
29)    provision for the metering of water into the exhaust stream of the engine for the
       purpose of cooling but limiting and controlled to reduce the back pressure w/ the
       balance of water discharged outside of the exhaust path;
30)    idle relief discharge to be common w/ exhaust bypass where the discharge is
    located          downstream of the throttle plate;
31)    a hinged cowl system allowing the cowl to be hinged up out of the way without
    being removed that can also be alternately removed without being hinged up first;
32)    a hinged cowl with a mechanical tether to prevent cowl ejection in the event of a
    strike of an underwater object while at operating speeds;
                                               59

      33)    the above feature with the mechanical tether disposed opposite the service acess
          points
             of the engine.
  100127]         Among other things, in at least some embodiments the present invention
 relates to an outboard motor configured for attachment to and use with a marine vessel. The
 outboard motor comprises an internal combustion engine that is positioned substantially (or
 entirely) above a trimming axis and that provides rotational power output via a crankshaft
 that extends horizontally or substantially horizontally, a propeller rotatable about a propeller
 axis and positioned vertically below the internal combustion engine when the outboard motor
 is in a standard operational position, and at least one transmission component that allows for
 transmission of at least some of the rotational power output to the propeller, Further, in at
 least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the outboard motor includes a front
 surface and an aft surface, the outboard motor being configured to be attached to the marine
 vessel such that the front surface would face the marine vessel and the aft surface would face
away from the marine vessel when in the standard operational position, and the crankshaft of
the engine extends in a front-to-rear direction substantially parallel to a line linking the front
surface and aft surface. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the
internal combustion engine is an automotive engine suitable for use in an automotive
application and further, in at least some additional embodiments, one or more of the
following are true: (a) the internal combustion engine is one of an 8-cylinder V-type internal
combustion engine; (b) the internal combustion engine is operated in combination with an
electric motor so as to form a hybrid motor; (c) the rotational power output from the internal
combustion engine exceeds 550 horsepower; and (d) the rotational power output from the
internal combustion engine is within a range from at least 557 horsepower to at least 707
horsepower.
                                                   60

  [00128]         Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the at least
  one transmission component is positioned substantially below the internal combustion
  engine, between the internal combustion engine and the propeller axis. Also, in at least some
  such embodiments of the outboard motor, all cylinders of the internal combustion engine are
  positioned substantially at or above a center of gravity of the internal combustion engine.
 Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the engine includes
 (or is operated in conjunction with) at least one of a supercharger and a turbocharger, at least
 one of a plurality of spark plugs, one or more electrical engine components, the supercharger,
 and the turbocharger is positioned above one or both of the center of gravity of the internal
 combustion engine and the crankshaft of the engine, and the outboard motor includes at least
 one of an intercooler, a heat exchanger, and a circulation pump. Further, in at least some
 such embodiments of the outboard motor, all of the cylinders of the internal combustion
 engine have respective cylinder axes that are oriented so as to be either vertical or to have
 vertical components, and all of the cylinders of the internal combustion engine have exhaust
 ports that are above the crankshaft of the engine. Additionally, in at least some embodiments
 of the outboard motor, the outboard motor is configured to be attached to the marine vessel
 such that a front surface of the outboard motor would face the marine vessel and the aft
 surface would face away from the marine vessel when in the standard operational position,
the internal combustion engine has front and aft sides, the front and aft sides respectively
being proximate the front and aft surfaces, respectively, and a power take off of the internal
 combustion engine extends from the aft side of the internal combustion engine.
[00129]          Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, either (a) one
or more of a heat exchanger and an accessory drive output are positioned at or extend from
the front side of the internal combustion engine at or proximate to the front surface, or (b) one
or more of an accessory drive, a belt, one or mores spark plugs, one or more electrical engine
                                                   61

 components, and one or more other serviceable components are positioned at or proximate to
 a top side of the internal combustion engine or proximate to the front side of the internal
  combustion engine opposite the aft side of the internal combustion engine from which the
 power take off extends. Additionally, in at least some embodiments of the outboard motor,
 (a) a flywheel is positioned aft of the internal combustion engine, between an aft surface of
 the internal combustion engine and a first transmission component adjacent thereto, or (b) a
 center of gravity of the internal combustion engine is above an axis of the crankshaft of the
 internal combustion engine. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor,
 an aft surface of the internal combustion engine is rigidly attached to a first transmission
 component of the at least one transmission component, the first transmission component is
 further rigidly attached to a second transmission component positioned below the internal
 combustion engine, and the second transmission components is further rigidly attached (at
 least indirectly by an additional rigid member) to the internal combustion engine, whereby in
 combination the internal combustion engine, first and second transmission components, and
additional rigid member form a rigid combination structure.
 [001301          Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the
 outboard motor further comprises a cowling that extends around at least a portion of the
 outboard motor so as to form a housing therefore. Additionally, in at least some such
embodiments of the outboard motor, at least one portion of the cowling extends around an
upper portion of the outboard motor at which is located the internal combustion engine.
Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, a first portion of the cowling
is hingedly coupled to a second portion of the cowling by way of a hinge, and the hinge
allows for rotation of the first portion of the cowling upward and aftward so that the one or
more serviceable components of the internal combustion proximate a top surface or a front
surface of the internal combustion engine are accessible. Further, in at least some
                                                    62

 embodiments, the present invention also relates to a boat comprising such an outboard motor,
 the boat being a marine vessel, the outboard motor being attached to a transom of the boat
 associated with a stern of the boat or a fishing deck of the boat. Additionally, in at least some
 such embodiments of the boat, an operator standing proximate the stem of the boat is able to
 access one or more components of the internal combustion engine proximate one or more of a
 front surface and a top surface of the internal combustion engine that are exposed when a
 cowling portion of the outboard motor is opened upward and aftward away from the stem of
 the boat. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the boat, the boat further comprises at
 least one additional motor also attached to the transom or another portion of the boat, and
 each of the at least one additional motor is identical or substantially identical to the outboard
motor.
100131]          Also, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to an
outboard motor configured for use with a marine vessel. The outboard motor comprises a
horizontal crankshaft automotive engine and means for communicating at least some
rotational power output from the horizontal crankshaft automotive engine to an output thrust
device positioned below the horizontal crankshaft engine and configured to interact with
water within which the outboard motor is situated. Further, in at least some such
embodiments of the outboard motor, the output thrust device includes either a single propeller
or two counterrotating propellers, the means for communicating includes a plurality of
transmission devices, and a crankcase of the horizontal crankshaft automotive engine is made
substantially or entirely from Aluminum.
[00132]          Additionally, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to an
outboard motor configured to be mounted on a marine vessel. The outboard motor comprises
a housing including an upper portion and a lower portion, where at least one output shaft
extends outward from the lower portion upon which at least one propeller is supported, and
                                                   63

 an engine configured to provide first torque at a first shaft extending outward from the
  engine, the engine being substantially situated within the housing. The outboard motor
  further comprises a first transmission device that is in communication with the first shaft so
 as to receive the output torque and configured to cause second torque including at least some
 of the first torque to be communicated to a first location beneath the engine, a second
 transmission device configured to receive the second torque and to cause third torque
 including at least some of the second torque to be communicated to a second location beneath
 the first location within or proximate to the lower portion, and a third transmission device
 positioned within or proximate to the lower portion that is configured to receive the third
 torque and cause at least some at least some of the third torque to be provided to the at least
 one output shaft.
 [00133]          In at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the first shaft is a
 crankshaft of the engine and extends afivard from the engine along a horizontal or
 substantially horizontal crankshaft axis, and a center of gravity of the engine is positioned
above the horizontal crankshaft axis. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the
outboard motor, the third transmission device is situated at least partly within a gear casing of
the lower portion, the gear casing having at least a portion that is substantially torpedo
shaped. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the at least one
output shaft includes a first output shaft and the at least one propeller includes a first
propeller, Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the third
transmission device is situated at least partly within a gear casing of the lower portion, the
gear casing houses therewithin first and second pinions, each of the first and second pinions
is configured to receive a respective portion of the third torque, the first and second pinions
are respectively configured to rotate in opposite directions, the gear casing further houses first
and second additional gears are both axially aligned with the first output shaft, the first and
                                                   64

 second additional gears respectively engage the first and second pinions in a manner such that
 opposite rotation of the first and second pinions relative to one another causes both of the first
 and second additional gears to rotate in a shared direction, and wherein such operation allows
 for the gear casing to have a reduced cross-sectional area.
 [00134]         Additionally in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the
third transmission device additionally has third and fourth gears respectively situated above
 and coupled to the first and second pinions, respectively, and the third gear is coupled at least
 indirectly to the second transmission device so as to receive the third torque and drives the
 fourth gear. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the third
transmission device is either a twin pinion transmission device or a single pinion transmission
device. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the at least one
output shaft additionally includes a second output shaft and the at least one propeller includes
a second propeller, and the third transmission device is configured to cause the first and
second output shafts to rotate in respectively opposite directions upon receiving the third
torque such that the first and second propellers rotate in respectively opposite directions.
Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the second transmission
device includes (or is configured to receive the second torque via) an intermediate shaft,
where the intermediate shaft is below and substantially parallel to the first shaft. Further, in
at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the second transmission device is a
multi-plate wet disk clutch transmission, and the third torque is communicated from the
second transmission device to the third transmission device via an additional shaft that is
substantially vertical in orientation. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard
motor, the second transmission device is capable of being controlled to achieve forward,
neutral, and reverse states, where in the forward state the second transmission device is
configured to communicate the third torque in a first rotational direction, where in the reverse
                                                   65

 state the second transmission device is configured to communicate the third torque in a
 second rotational direction, and where the third transmission device is a twin pinion
 transmission device.
 100135]          Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the first
 transmission device includes one of (a) a series of gears each having a respective axis
 extending parallel to a first axis of the first shaft extending outward from the engine, (b) a
 first wheel or gear driven by the first shaft in combination with a second wheel or gear that
 drives a secondary shaft for providing the second torque further in combination with a belt or
 chain fbr linking the respective wheels or gears, or (c) first and second 90 degree type gear
 arrangements that interact such that the first torque provided via the first shaft is
 communicated from the first 90 degree type gear arrangement downward via an intermediary
 shaft to the second 90 degree type gear arrangement, which in turn outputs the second torque.
Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, either (a) the first
transmission device includes a transfer case that includes an arrangement of gears or other
components that interact so that first rotational movement received from the first shaft is
converted into second rotational movement accompanying the second torque, the second
rotational movement differing in speed or magnitude from the first rotational movement, or
(b) the second torque includes substantially all of the first torque, the third torque includes
substantially all of the second torque, and the output shaft receives substantially all of the
third torque.
1001361          Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, an oil
reservoir for holding oil for the second transmission device is located within a mid portion of
the outboard motor, between the second transmission device and the third transmission
device. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the oil reservoir is
either (a) cooled by water coolant arriving from the lower portion of the outboard motor, or
                                                     66

 (b) is capable of holding substantially 5 Liters or more of oil. Further, in at least some such
 embodiments of the outboard motor, in addition to the oil reservoir for the second
 transmission device, each of the engine, the first transmission device, and third transmission
 device additionally has a further respective dedicated oil reservoir or repository of its own, so
 as to enhance operational robustness of the outboard motor.
 100137]          Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, a flow of
 rotational power from the engine to a propeller located at an aft end of a first propeller shaft
 of the at least one output shaft follows an S-shaped route from the engine to the first
transmission device to the second transmission device to the third transmission device and
 finally to the propeller. Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard
motor, a gear ratio achieved between the output shaft and a first propeller shaft of the at least
one propeller shaft can be varied by an operator by modifying at least one characteristic of at
least one of the first, second, and third transmission devices. Further, in at least some such
embodiments of the outboard motor, an aft surface of the engine is rigidly attached to the first
transmission device, the first transmission device is further rigidly attached to the second
transmission device, and the second transmission device is further rigidly attached (at least
indirectly by an additional rigid member) to the internal combustion engine, whereby in
combination the engine, first and second transmission devices, and additional rigid member
form a rigid combination structure. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard
motor, the outboard motor further comprises a tubular assembly that provides mountings for
the engine and each of the transmission devices, where a first of the mountings provided by
the tubular assembly is located at a midsection of the tubular assembly, where proximate the
midsection is further provided at least one of an oil sump, a fuel sump and a fuel pump, and
where the tubular assembly includes at least a first tube that serves as a conduit for exhaust
produced by the engine.
                                                    67

 [00138]         Additionally, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a
 method of operating an outboard engine. The method includes providing first torque from
 the engine at a first shaft extending aftward from the engine, causing second torque including
 at least some of the first torque to be provided to a first location below the engine at least in
 part by way of a first transmission device, causing third torque including at least some of the
 second torque to be provided to a second location below the first location at least in part by
 way of a second transmission device, and causing fourth torque including at least some of the
 third torque to be provided to a propeller supported in relation to a torpedo portion of the
 outboard engine.
 [00139]         Further, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to an
outboard motor for a marine application comprising an upper portion within which is situated
an engine that generates torque, and a lower portion including a gear casing, where a
propeller output shaft extends aftward from the gear casing along an axis drives rotation of a
propeller. Additionally, the gear casing includes each of: (a) first and second pinions, where
each of the first and second pinions is configured to receive a respective portion of the torque
generated by the engine via at least one transmission device, and where the first and second
pinions are respectively configured to rotate in opposite directions; (b) first and second
additional gears that are both axially aligned with the axis and coupled to or integrally formed
with the propeller output shaft, where the first and second additional gears respectively
engage the first and second pinions in a manner such that opposite rotation of the first and
second pinions relative to one another causes both of the first and second additional gears to
rotate in a shared direction; and (c) an exhaust port formed at or proximate an aft end of the
gear casing, the exhaust port allowing exhaust provided thereto via at least one channel
within the lower portion to exit the outboard motor.
                                                   68

 [00140]         Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, at
least one water inlet is formed along the lower portion by which water coolant is able to enter
the outboard motor from an external water source. Further, in at least some such
embodiments, the at least one water inlet includes a lower water inlet formed along a bottom
front surface of the gear casing and at least one upper water inlet formed along at least one
side surface of the lower portion at a location substantially midway between a top of the
lower portion and the bottom front surface. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the
outboard motor, the at least one upper water inlet includes port and starboard upper water
inlets formed along port and starboard side surfaces of the lower portion. Further, in at least
some such embodiments of the outboard motor, operation of the upper water inlets can be
tuned by placing or modifying one or more cover plates over the upper water inlets so as to
partly or entirely cover over one or more orifices formed within the port and starboard side
surfaces in various manners, further operation of the lower water inlet can be tuned by
placing an additional cover plate over or in relation to the lower water inlet, and all of the
water inlets are positioned forward of the first and second pinions toward a forward side of
the outboard motor, the outboard motor being configured so that the forward side faces a
marine vessel when the outboard motor is attached to the marine vessel.
[00141]          Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, (a) at
least one of the orifices is entirely covered over by way of at least one of the cover plates, so
as to preclude any of the water coolant from entering the at least one orifice, or (b) the
additional cover plate is added so as to block the lower water inlet and thereby preclude any
of the water coolant from entering the lower water inlet. Further, in at least some such
embodiments of the outboard motor, an oil drain screw associated with an oil reservoir for the
gear casing extends, from within the lower portion, toward the lower water inlet without
protruding out of the lower portion, whereby the oil drain screw can be accessed to allow
                                                   69

 draining of oil fiom the gear casing, and whereby a positioning of the oil drain screw is such
 that no portion of the oil drain screw protrudes out beyond an exterior surface of the gear
 casing. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the lower housing
 includes a front coolant chamber configured to receive the water coolant able to enter the
 outboard motor via the at least one water inlet. Additionally, in at least some such
 embodiments of the outboard motor, the outboard motor further comprises first and second
transfer gears respectively coupled to the first and second pinions by way of first and second
 additional downward shafts extending respectively from the first and second transfer gears to
the first and second pinions, respectively, where the first and second transfer gears engage
one another and the first transfer gear receives at least some of the torque generated by the
engine fiom a transmission device positioned above the first and second transfer gears by
way of an intermediate shaft extending from the transmission device to the first transfer gear.
 [00142]         Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the outboard
motor further comprises a mid portion in between the upper portion and the lower portion,
where the mid portion and lower portion are configured so that at least a first portion of the
water coolant received by the front coolant chamber passes by the first and second transfer
gears so as to cool the first and second transfer gears. Additionally, in at least some such
embodiments of the outboard motor, the outboard motor further comprises an oil reservoir for
the transmission device, the oil reservoir being positioned below the transmission device and
above the first and second transfer gears within the mid portion, where the mid portion and
lower portion are configured so that at least the first portion or a second portion of the water
coolant received by the front coolant chamber passes by the oil reservoir so as to cool oil
within the oil reservoir, Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor,
Archimedes spiral mechanisms are formed in relation to each of the first and second
additional downward shafts, such that oil is conducted upwards from a reservoir portion
                                                   70

 within the gear casing to the first and second transfer gears regardless of whether the
 outboard motor is operating a forward or reverse direction. Also, in at least some such
 embodiments of the outboard motor, the outboard motor further comprises a mid portion in
 between the upper portion and the lower portion, where a transmission device capable of
 forward-neutral-reverse operation is positioned within the mid portion above the first and
 second pinions, and where the respective portions of the torque are supplied to the first and
 second pinions at least indirectly from the transmission device.
 100143]        Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the
 lower portion includes an exhaust cavity positioned aftward of the first and second pinions,
 the exhaust cavity being configured to receive exhaust provided thereto from the engine and
being coupled by way of or constituting the at least one channel by which the exhaust is
provided to the exhaust port. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard
motor, the exhaust port includes a plurality of exhaust port sections positioned around the
propeller output shaft and separated from one another by a plurality of axially extending
vanes. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the lower portion
includes a cavitation plate extending aftward along a top portion of the lower portion above
the propeller, and the cavitation plate includes at least one of a (a) cavity within which water
coolant circulating within the outboard motor arrives after performing cooling within the
outboard motor and prior to exiting the outboard motor, the cavity at least partly in
communication with the exhaust cavity and (b) a sacrificial anode.
[00144]         Further, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to an
outboard motor for a marine application that comprises an upper portion within which is
situated an engine that generates torque, and a lower portion including a gear casing, where a
propeller output shaft extends aftward from the gear casing along an axis drives rotation of a
propeller. The gear casing has: (a) first and second pinions coupled respectively to first and
                                                  71

  second gears by way of first and second downwardly-extending shafts, respectively, where
  each of the first and second gears is configured to receive a respective portion of the torque
  generated by the engine via at least one transmission device, and where the first and second
  pinions are configured to rotate in opposite directions; (b) first and second additional gears
 that are both axially aligned with the axis and coupled to or integrally formed with the
  propeller output shaft, where the first and second additional gears respectively engage the
 first and second pinions in a manner such that opposite rotation of the first and second
 pinions relative to one another causes both of the first and second additional gears to rotate in
 a shared direction; and (c) a plurality of tunable water inlets formed along one or more
 forward surfaces of the lower portion, the tunable water inlets being configurable to allow or
 preclude entry of water coolant from an external water source to enter into the lower portion,
 wherein the lower portion is configured so that at least some of the water coolant entering the
 lower portion passes by the first and second gears so as to cool the first and second gears.
 [00145]          Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, at
 least one of the lower portion, upper portion and a mid portion between the lower and upper
 portions is configured to direct at least some of the water coolant toward or by at least one of:
 (a) an oil reservoir for a transmission device; (b) a heat exchanger configured to cool glycol
engine coolant upon receiving the water coolant; and (c) an exhaust conduit receiving exhaust
from the engine. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the
engine is a horizontal crankshaft engine, and the at least one transmission device includes a
wet disk clutch transmission. Also, the present invention also relates in at least some
embodiments to a marine vessel comprising such embodiments of the outboard motor.
 [00146]         Further, in at least some embodiments, an outboard motor includes a lower
portion having one or more tunable water inlets. In some such embodiments, there are one or
two upper water inlets located substantially midway between top and bottom regions of the
                                                    72

 lower portion. In other embodiments, there is at least one tunable water inlet along a bottom
 surface of a gear case. In at least some such embodiments, one or more water inlets are
 tunable by placement of one or more covers (e.g., cover plates, clamshell-type structures,
 etc.) that entirely or partly block entry of water into an interior of the lower portion via the
 one or more water inlets. Water entering via the inlets can proceed into the outboard motor
 for use for cooling.
 [001471          Additionally, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a
 mounting system for connecting an outboard motor to a marine vessel. The mounting system
 comprises a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a steering
 axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating, and a pair of clamp
 bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket structure. The mounting system also
 comprises a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by way of
the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that includes a
pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel
bracket structure to the outboard engine, the pair of first steering yoke structure mount
portions separated by a first distance. The mounting system further comprises a second
steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by way of the steering tube
structure, and including a second steering yoke structure mount portion which can be used to
couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard engine, the second steering yoke structure
mount portion positioned between the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
[00148]          Further, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, each of
the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions includes a respective first passage and
the second steering yoke structure mount portion includes a second passage. Also, in at least
some such embodiments of the mounting system, the second steering yoke structure mount
portion passage is below and between the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
                                                    73

 Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, the outboard motor
  includes a horizontal crankshaft engine.
 [001491          Also, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a
 mounting system for connecting an outboard motor to a marine vessel. The mounting system
 includes a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a steering
 axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating, and a pair of clamp
 bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket structure. The mounting system further
 includes a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about a
 steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that includes a pair
 of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket
 structure to the outboard engine, the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions
 separated by a first distance. The mounting system additionally includes a second steering
 yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about the steering tube structure, and
 including a pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to
 couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard engine, the pair of second steering yoke
 structure mount portions separated by a second distance, where the first distance is greater
 than the second distance, thereby providing convergence from the pair of first steering yoke
structure mount portions to the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions.
 [001501          Further, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, each of
the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions includes a passageway and the first
distance is at least about the distance between respective centers of the passageways.
Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, each of the pair of
second steering yoke structure mount portions includes a passageway and the second distance
is at least about the distance between respective centers of the passageways. Also, in at least
some such embodiments of the mounting system, the first crosspiece mounting structure is
                                                74

 centered or substantially centered about the steering tube structure, and the crosspiece
 mounting structure terminates in the pair of mount portions. Additionally, in at least some
 such embodiments of the mounting system, the clamp bracket structures are symmetric with
 respect to one another. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system,
 the clamp bracket structures are capable of being affixed rigidly or substantially rigidly to the
 marine vessel. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, the
 crosspiece mounting structure terminates in the pair of mount portions.
 [00151]          Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, a
 steering axis extends longitudinally along the center of steering tube structure and provides
an axis of rotation. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, the axis
of rotation is vertical or substantially vertical. Further, in at least some such embodiments of
the mounting system, the mounting system further includes a tilt tube structure having an axis
of rotation that permits at least one of tilting and trimming about the axis of rotation, and the
axis of rotation of the tilt tube structure further coincides with an axis of actuation of a power
steering actuator that is generally housed within the tilt tube structure. Also, in at least some
such embodiments of the mounting system, the mounting system further includes a tilt tube
structure having an axis of rotation. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the
mounting system, the swivel bracket structure is rotatable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, the swivel bracket
structure is at least one of tiltable and trimmable about the tilt tube axis of rotation. Also, in
at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, the tilt tube axis of rotation is
horizontal or substantially horizontal and, by virtue of swiveling around the tilt tube axis of
rotation, it is possible to rotate the outboard motor in relation to a transom of the marine
vessel so as to bring a lower portion of the marine vessel out of the water within which it
would ordinarily be situated.
                                                     75

  [00152]         Also, in at least some embodiment, the present invention relates to a mounting
  system for connecting an outboard motor to a marine vessel. The mounting system
 comprises a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a steering
 axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating, and a pair of clamp
 bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket structure. The mounting system further
 comprises a tilt tube structure having an axis of rotation, the tilt tube structure housing (at
 least in part) a power steering cylinder having a central axis that coincides, or substantially
 coincides, with the tilt tube structure axis of rotation. Further, in at least some such
 embodiments of the mounting system, the power steering cylinder includes a power steering
 piston that is capable of moving within the steering cylinder in response to power steering
 fluid movement. Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system,
the swivel bracket structure is rotatable about the tilt tube axis of rotation. Further, in at least
 some such embodiments of the mounting system, the swivel bracket structure is at least one
of tiltable and trimmable about the tilt tube axis of rotation. Also, in at least some such
embodiments of the mounting system, the tilt tube axis of rotation is horizontal.
 100153]          Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the mounting system, the
mounting system further comprises a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel
bracket structure by way the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting
structure that includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used
to couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard engine, the pair of first steering yoke
structure mount portions separated by a first distance, and a second steering yoke structure
connected to the swivel bracket structure by way of the steering tube structure, and including
a second steering yoke structure mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel
bracket structure to the outboard engine, the second steering yoke structure mount portion
positioned between the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions. Also, in at least
                                                    76

 some such embodiments of the mounting system, the mounting system further comprises a
 first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about a steering tube
 structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that includes a pair of first
 steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket
 structure to the outboard engine, the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions
 separated by a first distance, and a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel
 bracket structure about the steering tube structure, and including a pair of second steering
 yoke structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
 outboard engine, the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions separated by a
second distance, wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance, thereby
providing convergence from the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions to the pair
of second steering yoke structure mount portions.
 1001541         Further, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a
method of cooling an outboard motor having a lower portion, a mid portion, an upper portion,
a first transmission disposed in the upper portion and a second transmission disposed in the
mid portion. The method includes receiving, into the lower portion of the outboard motor, an
amount of cooling water, and flowing the amount of cooling water generally upwardly into
the mid portion of the outboard motor and past the second transmission. In at least some such
embodiments of the method, the amount of cooling water is received into the lower portion of
the outboard motor via a plurality of water inlets, and/or the cooling water cools at least in
part the second transmission. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the method, the
amount of cooling water that is flowing upwardly in the mid portion of the outboard motor
flows vertically or substantially vertically. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the
method, the amount of cooling water flowing into the mid portion of the outboard motor also
flows generally rearwardly in the mid portion past at least one of a pair of transfer gears and a
                                                    77

 second transmission oil reservoir to cool any oil in the reservoir. Also, in at least some such
 embodiments of the method, an engine is disposed in the upper portion of the outboard motor
 and the amount of cooling water flows from the mid portion generally upwardly into the
 upper portion.
 [00155]        Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the method, the method
 further comprises flowing the amount of cooling water forwardly to a water pump. Also, in
 at least some such embodiments of the method, the method further comprises pumping, using
 the water pump, the amount of cooling water into and through, so as to cool, an engine heat
 exchanger and an engine oil cooler. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the
 method, the method further comprises cooling a heat exchanger fluid at the heat exchanger
using the amount of cooling water and further cooling an amount of oil at the engine oil
cooler using the amount of water. Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the
method, the method further comprises, after exiting the engine heat exchanger and engine oil
cooler, flowing the amount of water generally downwardly, toward and into at least one
chamber surrounding a plurality of exhaust channels, and further flowing the amount of water
back upwardly into at least one exhaust manifold, so as to cool exhaust. Also, in at least
some such embodiments of the method, cooling water flows in a direction counter to a
direction of exhaust flow so as to cool the exhaust (while in the at least one chamber
surrounding the exhaust channels). Further, in at least some such embodiments of the
method, after exiting the at least one exhaust manifold, the amount of cooling water flows
downwardly, through one or more mufflers, and past the first transmission and, in so doing,
cools the one or more mufflers and the first transmission. Also, in at least some such
embodiments of the method, the method further comprises flowing the amount of cooling
water out of the outboard motor, by way of the lower portion.
                                                  78

 100156]          Further, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a
 method of cooling an outboard motor having a lower portion, a mid portion, and an upper
 portion. The method comprises receiving, into the lower portion of the outboard motor, an
 amount of cooling water, and flowing the amount of water upwardly from the lower portion
 to and through the mid portion and into the upper portion. The method also includes flowing
 a first portion of the amount of water into a first water pump and pumping the water from the
 first pump into and through one or more engine heat exchangers (e.g., and engine coolant
 heat exchanger and/or an engine oil cooler) and, after exiting the engine heat exchanger(s),
 flowing the first portion of the cooling water out of the outboard motor by way of the lower
 portion. The method further includes flowing a second portion of the amount of water into a
 second water pump and pumping the second portion into chambers surrounding respective
exhaust channels to cool exhaust flowing within the channels, and flowing the second portion
of the amount of cooling water through a plurality of mufflers and past a first transmission
disposed in the upper portion, and in so doing, cooling the mufflers and the first transmission.
The method additionally includes flowing the second portion of the amount of cooling water
from the mufflers and the first transmission, out of the outboard motor.
100157]          Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the method, the method
further comprises flowing the amount of cooling water generally upwardly into the mid
portion of the outboard motor and past, so as to cool, the second transmission disposed in the
mid portion. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the method, the method further
comprises cooling the engine in the upper portion by cooling engine coolant using a heat
exchanger and cooling engine oil using an engine oil cooler. Also, in at least some such
embodiments of the method, the method further comprises at least one of: (a) flowing the
second portion of the amount of cooling water to, so as to cool, an intercooler, and (b)
flowing a third portion of the amount of water into a third water pump and pumping the third
                                                     79

 portion of the amount of cooling water to, so as to cool, an intercooler, Further, in at least
 some such embodiments of the method, the intercooler is an aluminum intercooler, and air to
 glycol water cooling is performed at the intercooler.
 [00158]          Further, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a rigid
 body structure for use with outboard motor comprising an internal combustion engine that is
 rigidly attached to a first a first transmission assembly, a second transmission assembly
 positioned below the internal combustion engine and connected the first transmission
 assembly, and an additional rigid member connected to the second transmission assembly and
 to the internal combustion engine, whereby in combination the internal combustion engine,
 first and second transmission assemblies, and the additional rigid member form a rigid body
 structure. Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the rigid body structure, the
 internal combustion engine is a horizontal crankshaft engine, Further, in at least some such
 embodiments of the rigid body structure, the rigid body structure is rectangular or
substantially rectangular in shape. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the rigid body
structure, the rigid body structure includes a fastener which permits adjustability in the
assembly of the rigid body structure.
 [001591         Additionally, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to a
progressive mounting assembly of an outboard motor also having a transom mounting
assembly, the progressive mounting assembly for use in allowing connection of the outboard
motor to a transom of a marine vessel by way of the transom mounting assembly. The
progressive mounting assembly includes a steering yoke structure capable of being used with
the transom mounting assembly, a mounting bracket structure connected to the steering yoke
structure and mountable to a remainder of the outboard motor, and a thrust mount structure in
operable association with the steering yoke structure and the mounting bracket structure such
that the thrust mount structure is capable of transferring force in during an operational range
                                                     80

 of the outboard motor. Further, in at least some such embodiments of the progressive
 mounting assembly, the thrust mount structure contacts the lower yoke assembly and is
 deformed transferring a moderate to substantial force.
 100160]         Also, in at least some embodiments, the present invention relates to an
 outboard motor adapted for use with a marine vessel. The outboard motor comprises an
 internal combustion engine positioned substantially within an upper portion of the outboard
 motor, where the internal combustion engine is configured to output rotational power at a
 crankshaft and further output exhaust from at least one engine cylinder during operation of
the engine, and a first exhaust conduit that is configured to communicate at least some of the
exhaust downward from the engine to a gear casing at a lower portion of the outboard motor,
where the exhaust is able to exit the lower portion by way of at least one orifice formed in an
aft surface of the gear casing positioned in front of a propeller attached to the gear casing.
The outboard motor further comprises at least one water inlet positioned proximate a front
surface of the lower portion by which water coolant is able to enter into the lower portion
from an exterior water source, and at least one channel leading from the at least one water
inlet to a portion of the exhaust conduit, the least one channel being configured to direct at
least some of the water coolant to pass in proximity to the exhaust conduit so as to cool the
exhaust communicated by the exhaust conduit.
[00161]          Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the at least
one engine cylinder includes a plurality of engine cylinders, where the first exhaust conduit is
configured to receive the exhaust from a first cylinder along a first side of the engine, and the
outboard motor further comprises a second exhaust conduit that is configured to receive
additional exhaust from a second cylinder along a second side of the engine and to
communicate at least some of the additional exhaust downward from the engine to the gear
casing. Also, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the first and second
                                                  81

 exhaust conduits run along port and starboard sides of the outboard motor so as to minimize
 heat transfer from the exhaust conduits to one or both of oil or other internal engine
 components. Additionally, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, the
 outboard motor further comprises third and fourth exhaust conduits that link the first and
 second exhaust conduits, respectively, with first and second mufflers, respectively, the first
and second mufflers being positioned aftward of the internal combustion engine substantially
along first and second sides of a first transmission. Also, in at least some such embodiments
of the outboard motor, the first and second mufflers are coupled in a manner tending to
reduce or ameliorate noise associated with the exhaust and additional exhaust communicated
from the engine.
1001621          Further, in at least some such embodiments of the outboard motor, output
ports of the first and second mufflers are coupled to output orifices formed within an upper
portion of a cowling of the outboard motor, where positioning of the orifices within the upper
portion minimizes water entry into the orifices, and where the upper portion of the cowling
further includes at least one air intake port. Additionally, in at least some embodiments, the
engine is a horizontal crankshaft engine that outputs the exhaust communicated by the
exhaust conduits. Also, in at least some embodiments, coolant for cooling exhaust flows in a
direct opposite or counter a direction of flow of the exhaust leaving the engine.
[00163]         Additional alternate embodiments are also possible. For example, in some
other embodiments, more than one (e.g., two) of the outboard motors such as the outboard
motor 104 are positioned on a single marine vessel such as the marine vessel 102 to form a
marine vessel assembly.
                                                  82

[00164] In addition to the various embodiments described above, the disclosure of
this application also includes the embodiments set out in the following numbered
clauses:
1.      An outboard motor configured to be mounted on a marine vessel, the
        outboard motor comprising:
                 a housing including an upper portion and a lower portion, wherein at
        least one output shaft extends outward from the lower portion upon which at
        least one propeller is supported; an engine configured to provide first torque
        at a first shaft extending outward from the engine, the engine being
        substantially situated within the housing;
                 a first transmission device that is in communication with the first shaft
        so as to receive the output torque and configured to cause second torque
        including at least some of the first torque to be communicated to a first
        location beneath the engine;
                 a second transmission device configured to receive the second torque
        and to cause third torque including at least some of the second torque to be
        communicated to a second location beneath the first location within or
        proximate to the lower portion; and
                 a third transmission device positioned within or proximate to the
        lower portion that is configured to receive the third torque and cause at least
        some at least some of the third torque to be provided to the at least one output
        shaft.
2.      The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein the first shaft is a crankshaft of the
        engine and extends aftward from the engine along a horizontal or
        substantially horizontal crankshaft axis, and wherein a center of gravity of the
        engine is positioned above the horizontal crankshaft axis.
3.      The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein the third transmission device is
        situated at least partly within a gear casing of the lower portion, the gear
        casing having at least a portion that is substantially torpedo-shaped.
                                             83

4. The outboard engine of clause 1, wherein the at least one output shaft
   includes a first output shaft and the at least one propeller includes a first
   propeller.
5. The outboard motor of clause 4, wherein the third transmission device is
   situated at least partly within a gear casing of the lower portion, wherein the
   gear casing houses there-within first and second pinions, wherein each of the
   first and second pinions is configured to receive a respective portion of the
   third torque, wherein the first and second pinions are respectively configured
   to rotate in opposite directions, wherein the gear casing further houses first
   and second additional gears are both axially aligned with the first output
   shaft, wherein the first and second additional gears respectively engage the
   first and second pinions in a manner such that opposite rotation of the first
   and second pinions relative to one another causes both of the first and second
   additional gears to rotate in a shared direction, and wherein such operation
   allows for the gear casing to have a reduced cross-sectional area.
6. The outboard motor of clause 5, wherein the third transmission device
   additionally has third and fourth gears respectively situated above and
   coupled to the first and second pinions, respectively, wherein the third gear is
   coupled at least indirectly to the second transmission device so as to receive
   the third torque and drives the fourth gear.
7. The outboard motor of clause 4, wherein the third transmission device is
   either a twin pinion transmission device or a single pinion transmission
   device.
8. The outboard motor of clause 4, wherein the at least one output shaft
   additionally includes a second output shaft and the at least one propeller
   includes a second propeller, and wherein the third transmission device is
   configured to cause the first and second output shafts to rotate in respectively
   opposite directions upon receiving the third torque such that the first and
   second propellers rotate in respectively opposite directions.
                                        84

9.  The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein the second transmission device
    includes, or is configured to receive the second torque via, an intermediate
    shaft, wherein the intermediate shaft is below and substantially parallel to the
    first shaft.
10. The outboard motor of clause 9, wherein the second transmission device is a
    multi-plate wet disk clutch transmission, and wherein the third torque is
    communicated from the second transmission device to the third transmission
    device via an additional shaft that is substantially vertical in orientation.
11. The outboard motor of clause 10, wherein the second transmission device is
    capable of being controlled to achieve forward, neutral, and reverse states,
    wherein in the forward state the second transmission device is configured to
    communicate the third torque in a first rotational direction, wherein the
    reverse state the second transmission device is configured to communicate
    the third torque in a second rotational direction, and wherein the third
    transmission device is a twin pinion transmission device.
12. The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein the first transmission device
    includes one of (a) a series of gears each having a respective axis extending
    parallel to a first axis of the first shaft extending outward from the engine; (b)
    a first wheel or gear driven by the first shaft in combination with a second
    wheel or gear that drives a secondary shaft for providing the second torque
    further in combination with a belt or chain for linking the respective wheels
    or gears; or (c) first and second 90 degree type gear arrangements that interact
    such that the first torque provided via the first shaft is communicated from the
    first 90 degree type gear arrangement downward via an intermediary shaft to
    the second 90 degree type gear arrangement, which in turn outputs the second
    torque.
13. The outboard motor of clause 12, wherein either (a) the first transmission
    device includes a transfer case that includes an arrangement of gears or other
    components that interact so that first rotational movement received from the
                                           85

    first shaft is converted into second rotational movement accompanying the
    second torque, the second rotational movement differing in speed or
    magnitude from the first rotational movement, or (b) the second torque
    includes substantially all of the first torque, the third torque includes
    substantially all of the second torque, and the output shaft receives
    substantially all of the third torque.
14. The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein an oil reservoir for holding oil for
    the second transmission device is located within a mid portion of the
    outboard motor, between the second transmission device and the third
    transmission device.
15. The outboard motor of clause 14, wherein the oil reservoir is either (a) cooled
    by water coolant arriving from the lower portion of the outboard motor, or (b)
    is capable of holding substantially 5 Liters or more of oil; and wherein in
    addition to the oil reservoir for the second transmission device, each of the
    engine, the first transmission device, and third transmission device
    additionally has a further respective dedicated oil reservoir or repository of its
    own, so as to enhance operational robustness of the outboard motor.
16. The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein a flow of rotational power from the
    engine to a propeller located at an aft end of a first propeller shaft of the at
    least one output shaft follows an S-shaped route from the engine to the first
    transmission device to the second transmission device to the third
    transmission device and finally to the propeller.
17. The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein a gear ratio achieved between the
    output shaft and a first propeller shaft of the at least one propeller shaft can be
    varied by an operator by modifying at least one characteristic of at least one
    of the first, second, and third transmission devices.
18. The outboard motor of clause 1, wherein an aft surface of the engine is rigidly
    attached to the first transmission device, wherein the first transmission device
                                         86

        is further rigidly attached to the second transmission device, and wherein the
        second transmission device is further rigidly attached, at least indirectly by an
        additional rigid member, to the internal combustion engine, whereby in
        combination the engine, first and second transmission devices, and additional
        rigid member form a rigid combination structure.
19.     The outboard motor of clause 1 , further comprising a tubular assembly that
        provides mountings for the engine and each of the transmission devices,
        wherein a first of the mountings provided by the tubular assembly is located
        at a midsection of the tubular assembly, wherein proximate the midsection is
        further provided at least one of an oil sump, a fuel sump and a fuel pump, and
        wherein the tubular assembly includes at least a first tube that serves as a
        conduit for exhaust produced by the engine.
20.     A method of operating an outboard engine, the method comprising:
                 providing first torque from the engine at a first shaft extending
        aftward from the engine;
                 causing second torque including at least some of the first torque to be
        provided to a first location below the engine at least in part by way of a first
        transmission device;
                 causing third torque including at least some of the second torque to be
        provided to a second location below the first location at least in part by way
        of a second transmission device; and
                 causing fourth torque including at least some of the third torque to be
        provided to a propeller supported in relation to a torpedo portion of the
        outboard engine.
[00165] It is specifically intended that the present invention not be limited to the
embodiments and illustrations contained herein, but include modified forms of those
embodiments including portions of the embodiments and combinations of elements
of different embodiments as come within the scope of the following claims.
                                             87

CLAIMS
1.      A mounting system for connecting an outboard motor to a marine vessel, the
mounting system comprising:
        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure
that includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used
to couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
        a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way of the steering tube structure, and including a second steering yoke structure
mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
outboard motor, the second steering yoke structure mount portion positioned between
the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
2.      The mounting system of claim 1, wherein each of the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions include a passage and the second steering yoke
structure mount portion includes a passage.
3.      The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the second steering yoke structure
mount portion passage is below and between the pair of first steering yoke structure
mount portions.
4.      The mounting system of claim 1, wherein the outboard motor includes a
horizontal crankshaft engine.
5.      A mounting system for connecting an outboard motor to a marine vessel, the
mounting system comprising:
                                             88

        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about
a steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that
includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to
couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
        a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure
about the steering tube structure, and including a pair of second steering yoke
structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to
the outboard motor, the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions
separated by a second distance;
        wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance, thereby
providing convergence from the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions
to the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions.
6.      The mounting system of claim 5 wherein each of the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions includes a passageway and the first distance is at least
about the distance between respective centers of the passageways.
7.      The mounting system of claim 6 wherein each of the pair of second steering
yoke structure mount portions includes a passageway and the second distance is at
least about the distance between respective centers of the passageways.
8.      The mounting system of claim 5 wherein the first crosspiece mounting
structure is centered or substantially centered about the steering tube structure, and
the crosspiece mounting structure terminates in the pair of mount portions.
9.      The mounting system of claim 5, wherein the clamp bracket structures are
symmetric with respect to one another.
                                             89

10.     The mounting system of claim 5, wherein the clamp bracket structures are
capable of being affixed rigidly or substantially rigidly to the marine vessel.
11.     The mounting system of claim 5, wherein the crosspiece mounting structure
terminates in the pair of mount portions.
12.     The mounting system of claim 5, wherein a steering axis extends
longitudinally along the center of steering tube structure and provides an axis of
rotation.
13.     The mounting system of claim 12, wherein the axis of rotation is vertical or
substantially vertical.
14.     The mounting system of claim 5, further including a tilt tube structure having
an axis of rotation.
15.     The mounting system of claim 5, further including a tilt tube structure having
an axis of rotation.
16.     The mounting system of claim 15, wherein the swivel bracket structure is
rotatable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
17.     The mounting system of claim 16, wherein the swivel bracket structure is at
least one of tiltable and trimmable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
18.     The mounting system of claim 15, wherein the tilt tube axis of rotation is
horizontal.
19.     A mounting system for connecting an outboard motor to a marine vessel, the
mounting system comprising:
        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
                                             90

         a tilt tube structure having an axis of rotation, the tilt tube structure housing,
at least in part, a power steering cylinder having a central axis that coincides, or
substantially coincides, with the axis of rotation.
20.      The mounting system of claim 19, wherein the power steering cylinder
includes a power steering piston that is capable of moving within the steering
cylinder in response to power steering fluid movement.
21.      The mounting system of claim 19, wherein the swivel bracket structure is
rotatable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
22.      The mounting system of claim 21, wherein the swivel bracket structure is at
least one of tiltable and trimmable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
23.      The mounting system of claim 19, wherein the tilt tube axis of rotation is
horizontal.
24.      The mounting system of claim 19, further comprising:
         a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure
that includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used
to couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
         a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way of the steering tube structure, and including a second steering yoke structure
mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
outboard motor eaigime, the second steering yoke structure mount portion positioned
between the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
25.      The mounting system of claim 19, further comprising:
          a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about
a steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that
includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to
                                             91

couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
         a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure
about the steering tube structure, and including a pair of second steering yoke
structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to
the outboard motor, the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions
separated by a second distance;
         wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance, thereby
providing convergence from the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions
to the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions.
26.      A progressive mounting assembly for use with a transom mounting assembly
so as to allow for a coupling of an outboard motor to a marine vessel, the progressive
mounting assembly comprising:
         a steering yoke structure;
         a mounting bracket structure connected to the steering yoke structure and
mountable to the outboard motor; and
         a thrust mount structure positioned between and in operable association with
the steering yoke structure and the mounting bracket structure such that the thrust
mount structure is capable of transferring force to the steering yoke structure during
an operational range of the outboard motor,
         wherein the thrust mount structure is configured to move in relation to the
steering yoke structure.
27.      The progressive mounting assembly of claim 26, wherein the thrust mount
structure is configured to move in relation to the steering yoke structure such that, at
a first operational level, the thrust mount structure does not contact the steering yoke
structure and, at a second operational level, the thrust mount structure contacts and
imparts force to the steering yoke structure; and/or
         wherein the thrust mount structure contacts the steering yoke structure and is
deformed when the force being imparted is a moderate to substantial force.
                                             92

28.      An outboard motor comprising:
         an internal combustion engine;
         first and second transmission components, wherein an aft surface of the
internal combustion engine is attached to the first transmission component, wherein
the first transmission component is attached to the second transmission component,
and wherein the second transmission component is further attached, at least
indirectly by an additional member, to the internal combustion engine; and
         a mounting system coupled at least indirectly to one or more of the internal
combustion engine, the first transmission component, and the second transmission
component, wherein the mounting system is configured to allow for the outboard
motor to be connected to a marine vessel, and wherein the mounting system includes
a swivel bracket structure and first and second yoke structures each connected to the
swivel bracket structure,
         wherein the first steering yoke structure includes a first crosspiece mounting
structure that includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which
can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of
first steering yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance, and
         wherein the second steering yoke structure includes a first additional steering
yoke structure mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket
structure to the outboard motor, the first additional steering yoke structure mount
portion positioned between the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
29.      The outboard motor of claim 28, wherein the mounting system additionally
includes a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure, wherein the swivel bracket structure includes a steering tube structure,
wherein the swivel bracket structure is configured to provides a steering axis about
which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating, and wherein each of the
first and second steering yoke structures is connected to the swivel bracket structure
by way of the steering tube structure.
30.      The outboard motor of claim 29, wherein the first additional steering yoke
structure mount portion includes a steering yoke structure mount portion passage,
                                              93

and wherein the steering yoke structure mount portion passage is below and between
the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
31.      The outboard motor of claim 29, wherein the internal combustion engine is a
horizontal crankshaft engine.
32.      The outboard motor of claim 29, wherein the second steering yoke structure
includes both the first additional steering yoke structure mount portion and a second
additional steering yoke structure mount portion, wherein the first and second
additional steering yoke structure mount portions can be used to couple the swivel
bracket structure to the outboard motor and are separated by a second distance, and
wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance, thereby providing
convergence from the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions to the first
and second additional steering yoke structure mount portions.
33.      The outboard motor of claim 32, wherein each of the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions includes a respective first passageway, and each of the
first and second additional steering yoke structure mount portions includes a
respective second passageway.
34.      The outboard motor of claim 29, wherein the first crosspiece mounting
structure is centered or substantially centered about the steering tube structure, and
terminates in the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
35.      The outboard motor of claim 29, wherein the clamp bracket structures are
symmetric with respect to one another, and are capable of being affixed rigidly or
substantially rigidly to the marine vessel.
36.      The outboard motor of claim 29, wherein a steering axis extends
longitudinally along the center of steering tube structure and provides an axis of
rotation.
37.      The outboard motor of claim 28, further including a tilt tube structure having
a tilt tube axis of rotation.
                                            94

38.      The outboard motor of claim 37, wherein the swivel bracket structure is at
least one of tiltable and trimmable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
39.      The outboard motor of claim 28, wherein the mounting system additionally
includes a thrust mount structure in operable association with the second steering
yoke structure and a mounting bracket structure such that the thrust mount structure
is capable of transferring force in during an operational range of the outboard motor.
40.      An outboard motor comprising:
         an internal combustion engine;
         first and second transmission components attached at least indirectly to the
internal combustion engine; and
         a mounting system attached at least indirectly to one or more of the internal
combustion engine, the first transmission component, and the second transmission
component, wherein the mounting system is configured to allow for the outboard
motor to be connected to a marine vessel, and wherein the mounting system includes
each of:
         a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating; and
         a tilt tube structure having an axis of rotation, the tilt tube structure housing,
at least in part, a power steering cylinder having a central axis that coincides, or
substantially coincides, with the axis of rotation.
41.      The outboard motor of claim 40, wherein the power steering cylinder
includes a power steering piston that is capable of moving within the steering
cylinder in response to power steering fluid movement.
42.      The outboard motor of claim 41, wherein the swivel bracket structure is at
least one of tiltable and trimmable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
43.      The outboard motor of claim 40, wherein the mounting system additionally
includes a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure.
                                             95

44.      The outboard motor of claim 43, wherein the mounting system additionally
includes each of:
         a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure
that includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used
to couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard engine, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
         a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way of the steering tube structure, and including a second steering yoke structure
mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
outboard engine, the second steering yoke structure mount portion positioned
between the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
45.      The outboard motor of claim 40, wherein the mounting system additionally
includes a thrust mount structure in operable association with the second steering
yoke structure and a mounting bracket structure such that the thrust mount structure
is capable of transferring force in during an operational range of the outboard motor.
46.      The outboard motor of claim 40, wherein an aft surface of the internal
combustion engine is attached to the first transmission component, wherein the first
transmission component is rigidly attached to the second transmission component,
and wherein the second transmission component is further attached, at least
indirectly by an additional member, to the internal combustion engine.
47.      The outboard motor of claim 46, further comprising a gear casing having a
third transmission component positioned beneath the second transmission
component, wherein a propeller is supported upon a shaft extending from the gear
casing.
48.      A method of operating an outboard motor, the outboard motor having an
internal combustion engine, first and second transmission components attached at
least indirectly to the internal combustion engine, and a progressive mounting
assembly, the method comprising:
                                             96

         operating the outboard motor at a first speed so that a thrust mount structure
of the progressive mounting assembly is positioned apart from a first steering yoke
structure of the progressive mounting assembly by a first distance;
         operating the outboard motor at a second speed that is greater than the first
speed so that the thrust mount structure of the progressive mounting assembly is no
longer positioned apart from the first steering yoke structure; and
         operating the outboard motor at a third speed that is greater than the second
speed so that the thrust mount structure takes on a deformed state and serves to
transfer force.
49.      A method of operating an outboard motor, the outboard motor having an
internal combustion engine, first and second transmission components attached at
least indirectly to the internal combustion engine, and a progressive mounting
assembly, the method comprising:
         operating the outboard motor at a first speed so that a thrust mount structure
of the progressive mounting assembly is positioned apart from a first steering yoke
structure of the progressive mounting assembly by a first distance; and
         operating the outboard motor at a second speed that is greater than the first
speed so that the thrust mount structure of the progressive mounting assembly is no
longer positioned apart from the first steering yoke structure,
         wherein the outboard motor includes a swivel bracket structure and a second
steering yoke structure with a first crosspiece mounting structure that includes a pair
of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to couple the
swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering yoke
structure mount portions separated by a first distance, and
         wherein the first steering yoke structure includes an additional steering yoke
structure mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to
the outboard motor, the additional steering yoke structure mount portion positioned
between the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
50.      The method of claim 49, further comprising:
                                             97

         operating the outboard motor at a third speed that is greater than the second
speed so that the thrust mount structure takes on a deformed state and serves to
transfer force.
51.      The method of claim 49, wherein the internal combustion engine of the
outboard motor is a horizontal crankshaft engine.
52.      The method of claim 49, wherein the swivel bracket structure is at least one
of tiltable and trimmable about the tilt tube axis of rotation.
53.      The method of claim 52, wherein the outboard motor includes a tilt tube
structure having an axis of rotation, the tilt tube structure housing, at least in part, a
power steering cylinder having a central axis that coincides, or substantially
coincides, with the axis of rotation.
54.      The method of claim 53, wherein the power steering cylinder includes a
power steering piston that is capable of moving within the steering cylinder in
response to power steering fluid movement.
55.      An outboard motor for use with a marine vessel, the outboard motor
comprising:
         an internal combustion engine within an upper portion of the outboard motor,
the internal combustion engine having a horizontally-extending crankshaft;
         a propeller shaft extending from a lower portion of the outboard motor; and
         a mounting system associated with, at least in part, a mid-portion of the
outboard motor,
         wherein the internal combustion engine has a center of gravity that is
substantially aligned with an elastic axis of mounting of the outboard motor.
56.      The outboard motor of claim 55, further comprising a flywheel and a
transmission, wherein the flywheel is positioned aftward of the engine and forward
of the transmission, and wherein the elastic axis is at least substantially perpendicular
to a crankshaft axis of the horizontally-extending crankshaft of the engine.
                                             98

57.     The outboard motor of claim 55, wherein the lower portion includes a gear
casing, and wherein the gear casing has a center of pressure that is aft of the elastic
axis of mounting.
58.     The outboard motor of claim 57, wherein the center of gravity of the engine is
above a crankshaft axis of the horizontally-extending crankshaft of the engine.
59.     The outboard motor of claim 57, wherein a steering axis of the outboard
motor is forward of the elastic axis of mounting.
60.     The outboard motor of claim 59, wherein the engine includes a plurality of
cylinders, and wherein all of the cylinders are positioned substantially at or above the
center of gravity of the engine.
61.     The outboard motor of claim 55, wherein the mounting system includes a
progressive mounting assembly.
62.     The outboard motor of claim 55, wherein the mounting system comprises:
        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way of the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure
that includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used
to couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
        a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way of the steering tube structure, and including a second steering yoke structure
mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
outboard motor, the second steering yoke structure mount portion positioned between
the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
                                             99

63.     The mounting system of claim 62, wherein each of the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions include a passage and the second steering yoke
structure mount portion includes a passage, and wherein the second steering yoke
structure mount portion passage is below and between the pair of first steering yoke
structure mount portions.
64.     The outboard motor of claim 55, wherein the mounting system comprises:
        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about
the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that
includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to
couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
        a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure
about the steering tube structure, and including a pair of second steering yoke
structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to
the outboard motor, the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions
separated by a second distance;
        wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance, thereby
providing convergence from the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions
to the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions.
65.     The mounting system of claim 64, wherein each of the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions includes a first passageway and the first distance is at
least about the distance between respective centers of the first passageways,
wherein each of the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions includes a
second passageway and the second distance is at least about the distance between
respective centers of the second passageways, and
                                            100

wherein the first crosspiece mounting structure is centered or substantially centered
about the steering tube structure, and the crosspiece mounting structure terminates in
the pair of mount portions.
66.     The outboard motor of claim 55, wherein the mounting system comprises:
        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a tilt tube structure having an axis of rotation, the tilt tube structure tilt tube
housing, at least in part, a power steering cylinder having a central axis that
coincides, or substantially coincides, with the tilt tube structure axis of rotation.
67.     The mounting system of claim 66, wherein the power steering cylinder
includes a power steering piston that is capable of moving within the steering
cylinder in response to power steering fluid movement.
68.     An outboard motor for use with a marine vessel, the outboard motor
comprising:
        an internal combustion engine within an upper portion of the outboard motor;
        a flywheel positioned proximate to the engine;
a transmission coupled at least indirectly with the engine;
a propeller shaft extending from a lower portion of the outboard motor; and
        a mounting system associated with, at least in part, a mid portion of the
outboard motor, the mid portion being positioned between the upper portion and
lower portion,
        wherein the lower portion includes a gear casing, and wherein the gear casing
has a center of pressure that is aft of an elastic axis of mounting of the outboard
motor.
69.     The outboard motor of claim 68, wherein the mounting system comprises:
        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
                                            101

        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about
the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that
includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to
couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
        a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure by
way of the steering tube structure, and including a second steering yoke structure
mount portion which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to the
outboard motor, the second steering yoke structure mount portion positioned between
the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions.
70.     The outboard motor of claim 68, wherein the mounting system comprises:
        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a first steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure about
the steering tube structure, and including a first crosspiece mounting structure that
includes a pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions which can be used to
couple the swivel bracket structure to the outboard motor, the pair of first steering
yoke structure mount portions separated by a first distance; and
        a second steering yoke structure connected to the swivel bracket structure
about the steering tube structure, and including a pair of second steering yoke
structure mount portions which can be used to couple the swivel bracket structure to
the outboard motor, the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions
separated by a second distance;
        wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance, thereby
providing convergence from the pair of first steering yoke structure mount portions
to the pair of second steering yoke structure mount portions.
71.     The outboard motor of claim 68, wherein the mounting system comprises:
                                            102

        a swivel bracket structure having a steering tube structure and providing a
steering axis about which the swivel bracket structure is capable of rotating;
        a pair of clamp bracket structures extending from the swivel bracket
structure;
        a tilt tube structure having an axis of rotation, the tilt tube structure tilt tube
housing, at least in part, a power steering cylinder having a central axis that
coincides, or substantially coincides, with the tilt tube structure axis of rotation.
72.     The outboard motor of claim 68, wherein the mounting system includes a
progressive mounting assembly.
73.     An outboard motor for use with a marine vessel, the outboard motor
comprising:
        an internal combustion engine within an upper portion of the outboard motor;
        a transmission;
        a propeller shaft extending from a lower portion of the outboard motor;
        a mounting system associated with, at least in part, a mid-portion of the
outboard motor; and
        a tubular assembly that includes mounts for each of the engine and the
transmission;
        wherein the internal combustion engine has a center of gravity that is
substantially aligned with an elastic axis of mounting of the outboard motor.
74.     The outboard motor of claim 73, wherein the mounting system includes four
or more mounting portions including a thrust mounting portion, wherein the tubular
assembly includes an additional mount of an additional transmission, and wherein
one or more tubular segments of the tubular assembly are configured to serve as one
or more exhaust passages.
                                            103

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
