                                      18
                               ABSTRACT
        The invention proposes a lignin-phenol-formaldehyde resin,
which is obtained by polycondensation of formaldehyde, phenol
and   lignin  in   the  presence    of   a  basic    or  acidic  catalyst,
characterized in that the lignin is a lignin that is not chemically
modified at the available functional groups. This lignin has a low
molecular mass and        it comprises     available functional    groups
chosen    from   the   group    comprising     aliphatic   hydroxyls  and
phenolic hydroxyls. The degree of substitution by weight of phenol
with  the   said lignin   is  between    50%     and   60%.   The weight
proportion of the said lignin and of phenol in the resin is equal to
the  weight     proportion   of   phenol    in    a  lignin-free  phenol
formaldehyde (PF) resin.

                                         1
           "Phenolic resin obtained by polycondensation of
                     formaldehyde, phenol and lignin"
                  TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5
           The present invention relates to a novel use of a pure and
   non-degraded biopolymer of natural polyphenol type represented
   by a particular lignin.
           The present invention relates to the use of this lignin for
10 the production of a synthetic resin of the "phenolic" resin type by
   replacement     in  large  proportions   of  phenol,   or a  derivative
   thereof, with this particular lignin, in a "replacement proportion" of
   1 to 1 by weight.
15                               PRIOR ART
           Phenolic    resins  are  thermosetting    resins  obtained   by
   polycondensation of formol (or formaldehyde) and phenol (or a
   derivative thereof, cresol, resorcinol, xylenol, etc.).
20         Phenoplasts or phenol-formaldehyde resins (abbreviation:
   PF) are derived from formaldehyde and phenol, and the synthesis
   of phenol-formaldehyde polymers, which uses formaldehyde as
   comonomer, is similar to that of aminoplasts.
           In a first step, the precursors (also known as prepolymers
25 or oligomers, which constitute the resin) of the final polymers are
   formed via a start of polycondensation (release of water) of the
   formaldehyde with the phenol (or certain substituted derivatives
   thereof, such as cresols).
           In the second step of the production, the final structure of
30 the macromolecules is obtained by crosslinking, at about 1500C.
           A drawback of phenolic resins is especially their toxicity,
   during manufacture, due to the high levels of residual phenol and

                                        2
   formaldehyde monomers, despite the attempts by manufacturers,
   who make every effort to reduce this aspect.
          This is especially the case for "Resol" resins, which are
   obtained by reaction of a phenol with an aldehyde in the presence
 5 of a basic catalyst. This is also the case for "Novolac" resins,
   produced in the presence of an acid catalyst.
           Phenol-formaldehyde     resins    adhere     perfectly   to  wood,
   paper and textiles based on cellulose fibres.
           Phenol-formaldehyde adhesives or resins are in the form of
10 concentrated solutions of resin in alcohol, and also as solutions
   and as aqueous emulsions.
          Some of them are presented in the form of a powder that is
   soluble in water or alcohol. These adhesives are easy to use and
   also show great strength of the joint, which is often stronger than
15 the wood itself, and also good stability with respect to ageing, bad
   weather and moulds.
           Numerous attempts to reduce the amount of phenol used in
   phenol-formaldehyde resins or PF resins are known.
          Among these attempts, it has already been proposed to
20 prepare a resin comprising lignin for the production of an LPF
   resin partly comprising lignin.
           Lignin is a natural polyphenol derived from the combination
   of three monomers: p-coumaryl, coniferyl and sinapyl alcohol in p
   hydroxyphenyl, guaiacyl and syringyl units, respectively. Ortho
25 positions of the aromatic cycle are           partially free   in case of
   guaiacyl    and   p-hydroxyphenyl      units.   Thus    an    electrophilic
   substitution of these sites by formaldehyde is possible. Moreover,
   the highly cured aromatic structure of lignin has some similarities
   with the formo-phenolic network. Then the partial replacement of
30 phenol by lignin in the synthesis of resol resins has been a wide
   source of interest.
           In 1965, patent US 3 189 566 proposed the use of lignin in
   the production of a phenolic resin in a reaction of "Novolac" type

                                               3
   using papermaking lignin, the lignin being a partial substituent of
   the phenol which is used and reacted with formaldehyde.
            In   1981,      patent    US 4 306 999       proposed     the   use    of
   papermaking        lignin for    replacing      phenol.   The said     document
 5 indicates that adhesive or resin manufacturers are not equipped
   to use powders and thus require a lignin product in liquid form.
   Furthermore, the phenol-formaldehyde reaction requires the use
   of lignin solutions of low viscosity in order to avoid the excess of
   water.
10          In  order     to  make the       lignin   more    "soluble", the    said
   document proposed to produce a concentrated lignin solution of
   determined viscosity by dissolution using a solvent comprising
   water     and    phenol,     which     thus    goes    against   the    objective
   consisting      in    eliminating     the     phenol.    In   addition,    patent
15 US 4 320 036 (1982) -           for the production of a Novolac resin
    proposed proportions of mixture of a PF Novolac resin and of an
   alkaline lignin and of a binding agent.
            In 1988, patent US 4 769 434 identified the characteristic
   problems of lignins for their integration into phenolic resins by
20 especially identifying the low reactivity of papermaking alkaline
   lignins. This results from the insufficient number of sites available
   on each lignin fragment to react with formaldehyde.                    The said
   document identified the need to have more than 0.4 reactive site
   with a value of 0.6, starting from bagasse.
25          The said document mentioned in its abstract the objective
   consisting     in    replacing    25% to       100%   of the    phenol    in  the
   production of a raw material resin required for the preparation of
   the resin used in adhesives for the manufacture of wood-based
   products.
30          The said document thus indicated the difficulties in using
   lignin,   but the methods          proposed in that document, such as
   ultrafiltration or chemical modification of lignins to improve the
   reactivity, are technically or industrially unsatisfactory.

                                                4
         Patent US 5 177 169, for the use of lignin in resins or adhesives instead of
   phenol, indicates that the use of a product obtained from wood would enable
   wood industrialists to control the availability of "demethylated" lignin as a whole.
         Patent US 5 202 403 (1993) concentrated on the performance qualities
 5 required for an LPF resin and proposed to prepare a resin precursor with a low
   level of alkalinity which is then placed in contact with lignin.
         To date, despite the teachings of these documents, there is no solution that
   can be performed industrially allowing a substantial substitution of the amount of
   phenol in a resin of phenoplastic type in order to arrive at the production of an
10 LPF resin which satisfies all the criteria mentioned previously relating to its
   industrial production and implementation, especially while conserving all the
   advantages and characteristics of PF resins.
         To date, the only degrees of substitution that have been able to be obtained
   and implemented industrially are only of the order to 20% by weight (100% of
15 phenol replaced with 20% of lignins and 80% of phenol).
         The present disclosure provides a thermosetting synthetic resin, known as a
   lignin-phenol-formaldehyde       resin, or    LPF    resin,  which     is obtained    by
   polycondensation of formaldehyde, phenol and lignin in the presence of a basic
   or acidic catalyst, characterized in that the lignin is a lignin that is not chemically
20 modified at the available functional groups, and in that said available functional
   groups are chosen from the group comprising aliphatic hydroxyls and phenolic
   hydroxyls.
         The novel use according to the present invention lies in the use of a
   particular lignin derived from a plant raw material, especially wheat straw, and
25 which is composed of linear low molecular weight oligomers which behave like
   phenolic oligomer and polymer homologues.
         The novel use of the present invention was made possible because pure and
   undegraded lignin (referred to herein below as "Biolignin    TM
                                                                   " or "CIMV Lignin"), i.e.
   a lignin that is not chemically modified at the available functional groups, is
30 prepared via a process - referred to herein below as the "CIMV process" - that is
   fully controlled and described in particular in the CIMV patent EP-B1-1 180 171.

                                           5
           This process for producing paper pulp, lignins, sugars and
   acetic acid is characterized in that it comprises the following
   successive steps consisting in:
           (i)    placing the annual or perennial plants, which are used
 5 in total or partly, and which constitute the starting lignocellulosic
   raw material, in the presence of formic acid containing at least 5%
   by    weight    of   acetic   acid  which    is   brought   to   a  reaction
   temperature of between 500C and 1150C;
           (ii)   next, separating     at atmospheric pressure the solid
10 fraction     constituting the    paper pulp from the       organic phase,
   especially containing in solution the starting formic and acetic
   acids, dissolved monomeric and polymeric sugars, lignins and
   acetic acid derived from the initial plant raw material; the said
   process also comprising a preliminary step consisting in
15         (iii) performing     a preliminary impregnation        of the plant
   matter at atmospheric pressure and at a temperature at least
   300C below the reaction temperature.
           The paper pulp obtained then             undergoes one or more
   additional     operations    of  placing  in    contact  with   acetic acid
20 between 500C and 1150C.
           The humidity of the initial lignocellulosic material is less
   than or equal to 25% by weight of water relative to the dry matter.
           Milling of the lignocellulosic raw material is performed so
   as to reduce it to fragments or chips with a length substantially
25 between 0.5 and 20 cm.
           The impregnation by immersion is performed for a time of
   10 to 30 minutes         in the formic acid/acetic acid mixture        used
   during the fractionation reaction.
           The formic acid and acetic acid are separated from the
30 pulp, the lignins and the sugars by evaporation under vacuum.
           The liquid/sugar mixture is taken up in water and then
   filtered to separate the precipitated lignins from the acidic liquid
   aqueous phase.

                                              6
            CIMV patent EP-B1-1 877 618 describes an installation for
   performing       an   optimal    and    economic      implementation      of this
   process by especially making it possible to selectively extract the
   products such as the lignins and the sugars, and especially the
 5 said lignin not chemically modified at the available functional
   groups.
            The     said  document       thus    proposes    an    installation   for
   performing      the process for producing           paper pulp, lignins and
   sugars, in which:
10          * the annual or perennial plants, which are used in total or
   partly,    and    which    constitute    the    starting  lignocellulosic     raw
   material (MP) are, in an impregnation step, placed in contact with
   a mixture of organic acids;
            * next, in a fractionation step, the solid fraction constituting
15 the paper pulp is separated from the organic phase especially
   containing      in   solution    the   starting   organic    acids,    dissolved
   monomeric and polymeric sugars, and lignins derived from the
   initial plant raw material;
            * the    impregnation      and   fractionation    are    performed     at
20 atmospheric pressure;
            the installation being characterized in that it comprises:
            - means for passing the raw material, from upstream to
   downstream, successively at a first post and at least one second
   post    for   treating    the   raw    material    which    are   consecutively
25 arranged from upstream to downstream and constituting a first
   pair    of   consecutive      treatment      posts,    each    treatment     post
   comprising:
            - "impregnation"     means for, at the first post, temporarily
   placing the raw material in contact with an amount of a first
30 mixture, known as the impregnation mixture, of organic acids, and
   for, at the second post, temporarily placing the raw material in
   contact with an amount of a second impregnation                      mixture of
   organic acids; and

                                            7
           - means      for,   after    impregnation,     at     least     partially
   recovering the said amount of second mixture after impregnation
   and for reusing at least part of the second mixture recovered to
   constitute at least partly the said first impregnation mixture used
 5 at the first post.
           Each     post    comprises     means    for,   after    impregnation,
   sampling part of the said amount of second mixture in order to
   extract therefrom especially lignins derived from the initial plant
   raw material.
10         The possibility of sampling, for the purpose of extraction(s)
   at each treatment post, offers many advantages.
           It makes it possible especially to extract lignins of distinct
   and known molecular weights, these lignins being able to be
   characterized,      in    a  known      manner,      especially      by   mass
15 spectrometry.
           Also, CIMV patent application EP-A1-2 580 246 proposes a
   process for separating lignins and sugars from an                    extraction
   liquor, known as the extracted liquor, comprising, in the form of
   dry matter (MS),       lignins and sugars,       characterized in that it
20 consists in:
           a) concentrating       the    extracted   liquor,      especially     by
   evaporation, to obtain a concentrated liquor containing dry matter
   in a proportion of between 60% and 70% by weight;
           b) preparing a solution by mixing the concentrated liquor
25 with water, in equal parts by weight;
           c) stirring the mixture to prepare a dispersion of the lignins
   in the mixture and to obtain stable suspension of the lignins in the
   solution;
           d) filtering    the    solution    comprising      the     lignins     in
30 suspension, especially by means of a filter press,
           in which process:
           - the    said    mixture    is   prepared     by    introducing      the
   concentrated liquor into water;

                                           8
             - the   solution   temperature,   during  the   suspension,   is
   between 500C and 600C.
             Stirring of the solution is performed by placing in rotation.
             After the filtration step d), the filtered material is dried to
 5 obtain lignin powder, the particle size of which is between 20 and
   50 microns.
             The dry matter contains, on a weight basis, about 50% of
   lignins and about 50% of sugars and other products.
             Characterization      studies    performed      especially   by
10 Michel Delmas and Bouchra Mlayah Benjelloun furthermore made
   it possible to establish the structure and functionality of the CIMV
   lignin thus prepared, the research results of whom were published
   in the following documents: :
             A   "Functionality   of  Wheat    Straw   Lignin  Extracted   in
15 Organic Acid        Media,   Journal of Applied Polymer Science"        in
   Vol.121 491-501(2011);
             B "Structural elucidation of the wheat straw lignin polymer
     .. "in JOURNAL OF MASS SPECTROMETRY 2003; 38: 900-903;
             C "Elucidation of the complex molecular structure of wheat
20 straw lignin polymer ... " in RAPID COMMUNICATIONS              IN MASS
   SPECTROMETRY 2007; 21: 2867-2888.
             The lignin in accordance with the use according to the
   invention is distinguished in that it is not chemically modified, and
   in that its functional groups, especially the phenol groups, are
25 "available".
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             The invention proposes a thermosetting synthetic resin,
30 known as LPF, or lignin-phenol-formaldehyde, which is obtained
   by polycondensation of formaldehyde, phenol and lignin in the
   presence of a basic or acidic catalyst, characterized in that the
   lignin is a lignin that is not chemically modified at the available

                                           9
   functional groups.      In the present invention "lignin that is not
   chemically modified at the available functional groups" means a
   lignin known as "Biolignin      TM
                                      " or "CIMV Lignin" as defined and
   characterized    according     to   the   teachings   of the    documents
 5 mentioned previously.
           The said lignin has a low molecular mass whose Mw is
   between     700 g/mol     and   2000 g/mol    and    preferably  equal   to
   1500 g/mol.
           The   said   lignin   comprises     available   functional  groups
10 chosen    from   the     group   comprising    aliphatic   hydroxyls   and
   phenolic hydroxyls.
           The aliphatic hydroxyls are present in a proportion of from
   1.0 mmol/g to 3.0 mmol/g, and preferably in a proportion of from
   1.5 mmol/g to 3.0 mmol/g.
15         The phenolic hydroxyls are present in a proportion of from
   1.1 mmol/g to 2.0 mmol/g         and preferably in a proportion of a
   content not less than 1.5 mmol/g.
           The resin has a degree of substitution by weight of the
   phenol with the said lignin which is between 50 and 70%, and
20 preferably between 50% and 60%.
           The weight proportion of the said lignin and of the phenol
   in the resin is equal to the weight proportion of phenol in a
   phenol-formaldehyde (PF) resin not containing lignin.
           The production of this novel LPF resin is similar to that of a
25 phenoplast or phenol-formaldehyde PF resin of the prior art, or of
   an LPF resin of the prior art with a low degree of substitution or
   replacement by weight of the phenol with a lignin.
           The said particular lignin known as "BioligninT M ", or "CIMV
   Lignin", is used by predispersing it in phenol, the phenol-CIMV
30 Biolignin mixture then being used in the same manner as "lignin
   free" phenol in a PF resin.

                                             10
           The weight proportion of the said lignin in the composition
   of the resin is equal to the weight proportion of phenol in a
   "standard" phenol-formaldehyde PF resin.
           The resin is synthesised with a formaldehyde to phenol and
 5 lignin ratio (F/(P+L)) between 35 and 60%, preferably between 45
   and 50%, and optimally of 47%.
           The     said   lignin    or "Biolignin   TM
                                                       "  or  "CIMV    Lignin"   is
   produced according to the CIMV processes and by means of a
   CIMV     installation as described previously.            For example, said
10 lignin or "Biolignin    TM
                               " or "CIMV Lignin" is extracted from wheat
   straw.
            It can be characterized by its physicochemical properties:
   molecular weight, dry matter, acidity, ashes, Lignin Klason and
   residual hemicelluloses contents. An example of such lignin can
15 be:
          Molecular weight                    Mn 890 g/mol, Mw 1720 g/mol
          Dry matter                          95%
         Acidity                              3.22%
         Ashes content                        1.22%
          Klason content                      88.5%
          Residual hemicelluloses content 5.15%
          Protein contents                    8.4%
                     Table 1: example of Biolignin'    Composition
           This    lignin    is  supplied   for   its    use  for  the  industrial
   preparation of the novel resin according to the invention under
20 entirely satisfactory conditions, especially in the form of a powder
   that is able to be dispersed in phenol.
           The term "degree of substitution by weight" refers herein to
   the weight proportion of phenol of a phenol-formaldehyde PF
   resin, substituted with "Biolignin     TM
                                             " or "CIMV Lignin".
25          By way of examples, the functional groups of "Biolignin            TM
                                                                                  "
   or "CIMV Lignin" may be quantified in the following manner.

                                                11
             Example 1 (2012):
   Molecular weight of the Biolognin T M           =  1500 g/mol
                                              Aldehyde Acetyl Hydroxyls Total
   Hydroxyls (phenolic + aliphatic) 0.60                    0.50       2.90          4.00
   Phenolic hydroxyls                         0.20          0.05       0.85          1.10
   Aliphatic hydroxyls                        0.40          0.45       2.05          2.90
                                                                     (mmol/g of Biolignini)
                 Table 2: Quantification of a first example of Biolignin T M
 5
           Example 2:
             Aliphatic formylated hydroxyl          0.41       mmol      /g      of
                                                    Biolignin T M
             Aliphatic acetylated hydroxyl          0.46       mmol      /g      of
                                                    Biolignin T M
             Total Aliphatic hydroxyl               1.11 mmol/g of Biolignin M
             Total phenolic hydroxyl                1.74 mmol/g of Biolignin T M
       Table 3: example of Bioligninl M of Quantification of functional groups of
                                Biolignin by NMR analysis
           In   this   second     example      of    BiologninT M ,     the    total  free
10 phenolic hydroxyls can             be distributed       in     the three     units    (p
   hydroxyphenyl, guaiacyl and syringyl) constituting the lignin as
   follows:
                       Phenolic                        Guaiacyl        p-Hydroxyphenyl
                       I             Syringyl unit
                       hydroxyl                          units                units
     Biolignin  M    1.74 mmol/g    0.70 mmol/g 0.86 mmol/g              0.18 mmol/g
    Table 4: Repartition of the phenolic hydroxyls groups in the three monomeric
                                            units
                                                                          TM
15           1.5 mmol of phenolic hydroxyls of "Biolignin                    "  or  "CIMV
   Lignin" allows a degree of substitution of the phenol with lignin
   equal to about 50% by weight.
           Fives     resins   PF    (phenol-formaldehyde             resins)    and    LPF
   (Lignin-phenol-formaldehyde              resins)      were       synthesized       with
20 different phenol substitution contents by lignin (w/w).

                                             12
          The reaction time at 900C was set in order to reach a
   specified viscosity. The higher was the substitution of phenol by
   Biolignin TM , the shorter was the reaction time.
          The characteristics of four resins LPF1,              LPF2, LPF3 and
 5 LPF4) and the standard resin (PF1)              are shown in the following
   table. These resins reached the viscosity, dry matter and pH
   requirements for industrial PF
                        substitution     Reaction              Viscosity P     Dry
                                                       pH
                            rate        time (min)               (250C)       Matter
   industrial
   requirements of                                    11-12   300-800cP       >45%
   an adhesive resin
   PF1 reference             0%           52 min      11.8        3.1 P      47.0%
   LPF1                    20%            45 min      11.6        4.2 P      47.3%
   LPF2                    30%            35 min      11.7        4.7 P      47.4%
   LPF3                    50%            15 min      11.4        4.1 P      47.9%
   LPF4                    60%            12 min      11.5        4.8 P      47.1%
    Table 5: Characteristics of different PF and LPF synthesized from the same
                     formulation with different substitution rate.
10        Preferably the residual free formaldehyde content of the
   resins has to be under 0.2% to respect industrial requirements.
            The formaldehyde to (phenol + lignin) ratio (F/(P+L))                  is
   between     35   and 60%,       preferably    between     45 and       50%   and
   optimally 47% for a 50 to 70%, preferably 50 to 60% Biolignin                 TM
15 based resin.
          Table 6 presents the characteristics of 50% substituted LPF
   synthesized with different formaldehyde to phenol and lignin ratio.
   The reaction time was fixed at 15 min. Each one of the six LPF
   resins reaches the standard resin requirements in terms of pH and
20 viscosity. Moreover, with initial formaldehyde to phenol and Lignin
   ratio   between     35   and     60%,    the   substituted      resins   present
   characteristics which are closed to all industrial requirements.

                                              13
                          Initial
                                                Viscosity        Residual
                          F/)           p        (250C)       formaldehyde
                          (w/w)
           LPF 5         79.8%         11.7       2.5 P           8.1%
           LPF 3         64.0%         11.4       4.1 P           4.4%
           LPF 6         56.6%         11.6       3.2 P           2.7%
           LPF 7         49.7%         11.5       4.1 P           1.1%
           LPF 8         47.1%         11.5       5.2 P           0.5%
           LPF 9         39.9%         11.7       5.5 P           0.2%
       Table 6: Evolution of residual formaldehyde according initial mass ratio
                            formaldehyde/(Phenol + Lignin)
            By way of example, the characteristics of an optimized LPF resin
   (LPF 10) according to the invention with a degree of substitution
 5 of 50% by weight and a formaldehyde to (phenol+ lignin) ratio of 47%
   are as follows:
    substitution              reaction                Viscosity              residual
         cotetF/(P+L)           tie     Dry matter Vsoiy           pH
      content                   time                   (250C)             formaldehyde
        50%          47%       21 min     48.10%        3.4 P     11.9        0.18%
             Table 7: Characteristics of an optimized LPF resin (LPF 10)
            By way of example, the composition, expressed on a
   weight basis, of an LPF resin according to the invention with a
10 degree of substitution of 50% by weight is as follows:
            Water Urea Phenol Biolignin NaOH Formaldehyde
              48%     2.7% 12.1%         12.1%      7.3%         17.2%
                       Table 8: Formulation of an example of LPF resin
            The     LPF resins according to the invention based on
   "Biolignin   TM
                   " or "CIMV Lignin" have the same thermomechanical
   profile as a PF industrial resin (reference).
15          Thus, as non-limiting examples of such a composition:
          Resin                 Reference Biolignin/phenol           LPF 10
                                     PF           60%/40%
          Maximum                   1500             1314             1720

                                               14
                Young's
                Modulus (MPa)
                Temperature
                ('C)                     139             150              143
                     Table 9: Comparative tests performed on wood panels by
                             means of resin according to the invention
        Comparative tests performed on wood panels (particle boards) by means of
   a resin according to the invention reveal results, characteristics and performance
 5 qualities at least equal to those obtained with a standard industrial adhesive/PF
   resin.
        By way of non-limiting example, the optimized [PF 10 resin was tested in
   particle board manufacturing. Panels have been characterized and compared
   with industrial requirements. Results are as follow in Table 10. The mechanical
10 properties of lie panels obtained reach lie industrial requirements for particle
   boards, especially In terms of traction, flexion and modulet
                           %dry                       t fraction   Flexiri    Madule
                           resin                        (N/mm)    (N/rnm)      MPa)
             LPFI8          9%      19d          eel       0.39      13.8      2337
          Requirements                                      0.3       13       2050
                   Table 10: BioligninTM based particle boards characteristics
                               compared with industrials requirements
15      Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in this
   specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers,
   steps or components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or
   addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components or groups
   thereof.
20

                                            15
CLAIMS:
     1. Thermosetting synthetic resin, known as a lignin-phenol-formaldehyde
resin, or LPF resin, which is obtained by polycondensation of formaldehyde,
phenol and lignin in the presence of a basic or acidic catalyst, characterized in
that the lignin is a lignin that is not chemically modified at the available functional
groups, and in that said available functional groups are chosen from the group
comprising aliphatic hydroxyls and phenolic hydroxyls.
     2.    Resin according to Claim 1, characterized in that the said lignin has a low
molecular mass whose Mw is between 700 g/mol and
     2000 g/mol and preferably equal to 1500 g/mol.
     3.    Resin according to Claim 1, characterized in that the aliphatic hydroxyls
are present in a proportion of from 1.5 mmol/g to 3.0 mmol/g.
     4.    Resin according to Claim 3, characterized in that the phenolic hydroxyls
are present in a proportion of from 1.1 mmol/g to 2.0 mmol/g and preferably in a
content not less than 1.5 mmol/g.
     5.    Resin according to Claim 1, characterized in that it comprises a degree
of substitution by weight of phenol with the said lignin which is between 50 and
70%, and preferably between 50% and 60%.
     6.    Resin according to claim 5, characterized in that it is synthesised with a
formaldehyde to (phenol + lignin) ratio (F/(P + L)) between 35 and 60%,
preferably between 45 and 50%, and optimally of 47%.
     7.    Resin according to Claim 1, characterized in that the said lignin that is
not chemically modified at the available functional groups is produced according
to a process for producing paper pulp, lignins, sugars and acetic acid,
characterized in that it comprises the following successive steps consisting in:
     (i) placing the annual or perennial plants, which are used in total or partly,
and which constitute the starting lignocellulosic raw material, in the presence of a
mixture of formic acid containing at least 5% by weight of acetic acid which is
brought to a reaction temperature of between 50'C and 115'C;
     (ii) next, separating at atmospheric pressure the solid fraction constituting the
paper pulp from the organic phase, especially containing in solution the starting
formic and acetic acids, dissolved monomeric and polymeric sugars, lignins and
acetic acid derived from the initial plant raw material; the said process also
comprising a preliminary step consisting in

                                           16
     (iii) performing a preliminary impregnation of the plant matter at atmospheric
pressure and at a temperature at least 300C below the reaction temperature.
     8.     Resin according to Claim 7, characterized in that the said process is
performed in an installation which comprises:
     - means for passing the raw material, from upstream to downstream,
successively at a first post and at least one second post for treating the raw
material which are consecutively arranged from upstream to downstream and
constituting a first pair of consecutive treatment posts, each treatment post
comprising:
     - "impregnation" means for, at the first post, temporarily placing the raw
material in contact with an amount of a first mixture, known as the impregnation
mixture, of organic acids, and for, at the second post, temporarily placing the raw
material in contact with an amount of a second impregnation mixture of organic
acids; and
     - means for, after impregnation, at least partially recovering the said amount
of second mixture after impregnation and for reusing at least part of the second
mixture recovered to constitute at least partly the said first impregnation mixture
used at the first post.
     9.    Resin according to Claim 8, characterized in that, in the said installation,
each post comprises means for, after impregnation, sampling part of the said
amount of second mixture in order to extract therefrom the said lignin that is not
chemically modified at the available functional groups derived from the initial
plant raw material.
     10.     Resin according to Claim 8, characterized in that the said lignin that is
not chemically modified at the available functional groups is separated from the
sugars from an extraction liquor, known as the extracted liquor, comprising, in the
form of dry matter (MS), lignins and sugars, via a separation process which
consists in:

                                          17
            a) concentrating the extracted liquor, especially by evaporation,
   to obtain a concentrated liquor containing dry matter in a proportion of
   between 60% and 70% by weight;
            b) preparing a solution by mixing the concentrated liquor with
 5 water, in equal parts by weight;
            c) stirring the mixture to prepare a dispersion of the lignins in
   the mixture and to obtain stable suspension of the lignins in the
   solution;
            d) filtering the solution comprising the lignins in suspension,
10 especially by means of a filter press,
            in which process:
            - the said mixture is prepared by introducing the concentrated
   liquor into water;
            - the solution temperature, during the suspension, is between
15 50'C and 60'C.

