                                      ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to methods of suppressing the immune tolerance of a
disease or disease antigens in a patient. The method also promotes the activity of the
effector T lymphocytes. The invention includes administering a therapeutic
composition that promotes a Thl environment in the patient while decreasing the
immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells that can lead to disease antigen tolerance
and immunoavoidance of the disease antigens by the patient. The therapeutic
composition includes allogeneic emTh-1 cells. The therapeutic composition can also
include disease antigens such as the chaperone-rich cell lysate of the disease antigen.

             METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR INHIBITION OF Treg CELLS
                                         BACKGROUND
[0001] The primary objective of cancer immunotherapy is to promote tumor elimination through
the activation of innate and adaptive immune responses and relies on the development of
vaccination strategies endowed with the dual capability of inducing tumor-specific lymphocytes
while overcoming the mechanisms of immune tolerance.         Use of cancer immunotherapy can
potentially result in tumor elimination and durable remissions with properly designed cancer
vaccines. The specificity in immunotherapy of targeting malignant cells and avoiding normal
cells can also lead to minimal toxicity.
[0002] Immune responses are generally described by two polarized responses, a Thi (T-helper)
response and a Th2 response.      A Thi response mediates cellular immunity and is critical for
immune-mediated tumor eradication and a Th2 response mediates humoral immunity. A Th2
response can protect against some infectious diseases but is not desired for an anti-tumor
response. Thi and Th2 responses are counter-regulatory, increased Thi responses down regulate
Th2 response and vice versa.
[0003] While Th1 immunity is essential for tumor eradication, in some patients the tumor can
continue to grow in the presence of a Th1 environment. Tumors, therefore, can successfully
suppress and avoid a protective Thi response. A successful immunotherapy has to promote a
Th1 environment and also disable tumor avoidance mechanisms and counter natural tolerance
circuits that prevent immune destruction of normal tissues.
[0004] Many of the mechanisms that impede anti-tumor immunity are a result of the activity of
CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ T regulatory (Treg) cells.          These Treg cells critically contribute to the
occurrence and persistence of tumor -induced tolerance and are the dominant immune escape
mechanism in early tumor progression. Treg expansion observed during tumor progresssion may
result from the proliferation of naturally occurring Tregs (nTregs) or from conversion of
CD4*CD25-FoxP3- T cells into CD4±CD25rFoxP3± Tregs (iTregs).              Tregs dampen immune
responses by suppressing the function of the effectors CD4+, CD8+, and natural killer (NK) cells
and by inhibiting dendritic cell activation. Because Tregs are one of the main barriers for the
eradication of tumors by immune cells, their therapeutic depletion or their functional inactivation

                                                -2
using drugs or antibodies improves responses to cancer immunotherapy. However, the selective
elimination or inactivation of Tregs constitutes a major challenge because these cells share the
same surface markers as activated conventional, nonsuppressive T cells.          Antibody-based
approaches,    for example, indistinguishably target both Tregs and activated effector T
lymphocytes.
[0005] The use of an anti-cancer vaccine containing CRCL (Chaperone Rich Cell Lysate) has
been shown to provide immunostimulatory effects. The CRCL is generated from tumor cell
lysates by an isoelectric focusing technique.     CRCL-treated dendritic cells and macrophages
resist Treg inhibition      and retain   the production    of pro-inflammatory    cytokines  and
immunostimulatory potential. However, a direct effect of CRCL on Treg seems to be unlikely
since the survival of Treg, FoxP3 expression and immunosuppressive function is maintained
following exposure to CRCL.
[0006] Several chemotherapeutic agents (i.e. cyclophosphomide, imatinib mesylate) have been
described as the negative modulators of Treg function further improving cancer vaccine efficacy.
Adoptive transfer of allogeneic T cells may also increase the efficacy of tumor immunotherapy
by providing adjuvant "danger" signals to the host immune cells. This effect partly stems from
cytokine production by activated T lymphocytes, which foster the development of protective
type-i immune responses. However, the effects of type I cytokines, including IFN-y, on Treg
have been inconsistent. As an essential effector cytokine for cell-mediated immunity, exogenous
or autocrine IFN-y can negatively regulate Treg generation. In parallel with this concept, other
studies have found that IFN-y enhances activation-induced cell death and that this cytokine
might regulate the expansion and persistence of effector T cells by enhancing intrinsic and
extrinsic pathway-dependent apoptosis.
                                            SUMMARY
[0007] In one aspect, the present invention relates to a method of suppressing immune tolerance
of a disease in a patient. The method includes decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of
Treg cells by administering a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic Thi cells to a

                                                 -3
patient, wherein decreasing and/or inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells reduces the immune
tolerance of disease antigens in the patient.
[0008] In another aspect, the present invention relates to a method for stimulating a therapeutic
immune effect in a patient. The method includes decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of
Treg cells by administering a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic ThI cells to a
patient wherein decreasing and/or inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells induces a therapeutic
effect against the disease in the patient.
[0009] In a further aspect, the present invention relates to a method of impairing the
immunosuppressive functions in a patient. The method includes decreasing the
immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells by administering a therapeutic composition comprising
allogeneic Th 1 cells to a patient wherein decreasing and/or inhibiting the activity of the Treg
cells reduces the immunosuppressive functions in the patient.
[0010] In yet another aspect, the present invention relates to a method of suppressing immune
tolerance and promoting a therapeutic effect in patients with a disease comprising administering
activated Thi cells and a source of disease antigens wherein the Thi cells and the disease
antigens are administered at the same location.
[0011] In yet a further aspect, the present invention relates to a composition comprising a source
of disease antigens and an adjuvant wherein the disease antigens are contained within chaperone
proteins and the adjuvant comprises activated allogeneic Th 1 cells.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012] Fig. 1A is a dot plot that shows the effect on FoxP3 expression when naive T cells are
resuspended with different tumor cell lines and treated with activated emTh- 1 cells
[0013] Fig. lB is a bar graph that shows the effect on FoxP3 expression when naive T cells are
resuspended with different tumor cell lines and treated with activated emTh- 1 cells.
[0014] Fig. 2A is a dot plot that shows the effect on FoxP3 expression when naive T cells are
cultured with T-cell expander beads either with or without TGF- 1, in the presence or absence of
emTh- 1 supernatant.

                                                -4
[0015] Fig. 2B is a histogram that shows the effect on FoxP3 expression when naive T cells are
cultured with T-cell expander beads either with or without TGF-p 1, in the presence or absence of
emTh- 1 supernatant.
[0016] Fig. 2C is a bar graph showing percentage of CD4*CD25-FoxP3- activated T cells in total
CD4' T lymphocytes.
[0017] Fig. 2D is a dot plot showing the expression of transcription factors FoxP3, Tbet, and
GATA-3 in cells cultured as described in Fig. 2A.
[0018] Fig. 2E is a bar graph of the expression of FoxP3 in cells cultured as described in Fig. 2A
with the indicated concentration of emTh- 1 supernatant.
[0019] Fig. 2F is a bar graph of the immunosuppressive activity of residual FoxP3-expressing
cells generated in the presence of emTh- 1 supernatant.
[0020] Fig. 2G is a bar graph that shows emTh-1 supernatant inhibiting the suppressive activity
of converted iTreg cells.
[0021] Fig. 3A is a bar graph that shows naive T cells with T-cell expander beads with or
without TGF-pl in the presence or absence of emTh-1 supernatant with or without blocking
antibodies against mouse IFN-y.
[0022] Fig. 3B is a bar graph that shows naive T cells with T-cell expander beads with or
without TGF-1 in the presence or absence of emTh-1 supernatant with or without blocking
antibodies against against mouse TNF-a.
[0023] Fig. 3C is a dot plot of the FoxP3 expression in naive T lymphocytes isolated from IFN
yR-'- mouse spleens and cultured as described in Fig. 3A.
[0024] Fig. 3D is a bar graph that shows the percentage FoxP3 expressing cells isolated from
IFN-yR-'- mouse spleens and cultured as described in Fig. 3A.
[0025] Fig. 4A is a plot showing nTreg (CD4*CD25*Treg) immunosuppressive function
inhibited by emTh- 1.
[0026] Fig. 4B is a bar graph showing nTreg (CD4*CD25*Treg) immunosuppressive function
inhibited by emTh- 1.
[0027] Fig. 4C is a bar graph nTreg (CD4*CD25*Treg) immunosuppressive function inhibited
by emTh-1.

                                                -5
[0028] Fig. 4D is a bar graph showing the IFN-y concentration in cells described for Fig. 4A.
[0029] Fig. 4E is a plot that shows human emTh- 1 supernatant reduces human Treg suppressive
function and promotes effector T-cell resistance to Treg-mediated inhibition.
[0030] Fig. 4F is a plot that shows human emTh-1 supernatant reduces human Treg suppressive
function and promotes effector T-cell resistance to Treg-mediated inhibition.
[0031] Fig. 5A is a graph showing the effect of vaccines on naive Balb/c mice injected with
12B 1 cells and administered CRCL, emTh- 1 or a combination of both CRCL and emTh-1.
[0032] Fig. 5B is a graph showing the effect of vaccines on naive Balb/c mice injected with
12B 1 cells and administered CRCL, emTh- 1 or a combination of both CRCL and emTh-1.
[0033] Fig. 5C is a graph showing the effect of vaccines on naive Balb/c mice injected with
12B1 cells and administered a combination of both CRCL and emTh-1 or CRCL, emTh-1 and
anti-asialo GM 1 antibodies
[0034] Fig. 5D is graph showing the effect of vaccines on C57BL/6 mice injected with B 16 cells
and administered a combination of emTh- 1 and B 16 CRCL.
[0035] Figs. 6A-6D is a plot showing the tumor volume in mice and is indicative of the tumor
specific immunity induced by emTh- 1 plus CRCL immunotherapy.
[0036] Fig. 7A is a bar graph showing the effects of emTh- 1 cells plus CRCL immunotherapy on
antitumoral T lymphocytes.
[0037] Fig. 7B is a dot plot showing that emTh- 1 cells skew the differentiation of naive T
lymphocytes toward CD4*CD25*FoxP3- effector T cells rather than Tregs in vivo.
[0038] Fig. 7C is a bar graph showing that emTh-1 cells impair Treg suppressive function in
vivo.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0039] The present invention includes a method for suppressing immune tolerance of disease
antigens and/or disabling tumor immunoavoidance mechanisms in a patient. The method also
includes stimulating immunity against the disease antigens, in particular Thi immunity. Both
the suppression of immune tolerance and stimulation of anti-disease antigen immunity can be
developed by the administration of a therapeutic composition that includes a source of disease
antigen and allogeneic Thi cells, preferably allogeneic, activated Thi cells as adjuvant.

                                                 -6
Generally, the allogeneic Th1 cells are activated, effector/memory Th1 (emTh-1) cells.         The
therapeutic composition can also include disease related antigens and/or lysates containing
disease related antigens, preferably a mixture of chaperone proteins isolated from diseased tissue,
such as Charperone Rich Cell Lysate (CRCL) .
[0040] In the present invention, the method for suppression of immune tolerance can include
impairing the suppressive activity of Treg cells. The method can inhibit the conversion of naive
T-cells (CD4+CD25-FoxP3-) to Treg cells (CD4+CD25+FoxP3+), referred to herein as iTreg.
The suppressive activity of both naturally occuring Treg (nTreg) cells and iTreg cells can be
reduced or eliminated.      The methods of the present invention advantageously inhibit the
immunosuppressive      activity  of Treg while      simultaneously promoting the function        of
conventional effector T lymphocytes in the patient. The inhibitory activity of the therapeutic
composition on Treg is dependent on IFN-y, which in preferred compositions is produced by the
em-ThI cells which in turn increase the production of IFN-y from host innate and adaptive
immune cells.
[0041] "Suppression of immune tolerance" as referred to herein relates to suppressing the ability
of the patient's immune system to tolerate the presence of disease antigens including any natural
tolerance and/or suppression of tumor avoidance by the patient's immune system.
[0042] The methods described herein can be used to treat a variety of diseases in a patient. The
disease can be cancerous or non-cancerous.          Cancerous diseases can include cancers that
generate tumors as well as cancers that do not produce tumors such as hematological
malignancies. Non-cancerous diseases can include, for example, diseases caused by a pathogen
or pathogens. The tumors may be present in a variety of locations in the patient including breast,
lungs, liver, stomach, skin, pancreas and the like. The patients can be human or non-human.
[0043] The methods of the present invention can include              administering a therapeutic
composition to a patient wherein administration of the composition can suppress the tolerance of
disease and/or disease antigens by the patient's immune system.             Administration of the
therapeutic composition to a patient can disable the tumor avoidance mechanisms in a patient
and lead to better tumor eradication. Preferably, administration of the therapeutic composition
can suppress the activity of Treg cells that are CD4+CD25+FoxP3+. "Treg" cells as referred to

                                                  -7
herein relate to regulatory T-cells that are CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ and include both nTreg and
iTreg. Naive T-cells as referred to herein are T-cells that are CD4+CD25-FoxP3-.
[0044] The methods of the present invention include suppressing the activity of Treg cells in a
variety of ways. The suppression of the activity of Treg cells can be, for example, by inhibiting
the conversion of naive T-cells to iTreg cells.         The method can include administration of
therapeutic compositions described herein that interfere with the conversion of naive cells to
Treg cells, for example, by modulating the activity of FoxP3. FoxP3 is a transcription factor that
is a marker for cells which are capable of causing immune suppression activity. The absence or
reversal of FoxP3 in a cell is an indication that the cell does not perform suppressive functions.
[0045] The method of the present invention can also negatively modulate a patient's nTreg cells
in order to enhance the suppression of immune tolerance.          A patient can have nTreg cells in
addition to iTreg cells derived from naive T cells in response to a stimulus. The therapeutic
composition used in the methods of the present invention may also suppress the activity of nTreg
and/or iTreg cells in the patient.
[0046] The methods can also include the administration of IFN-gamma in order to suppress the
activity of the Treg cells and/or the inclusion of CD40L. The IFN-gamma and/or CD40L can be
used as part of the therapeutic composition.        The use of IFN-gamma and/or CD40L in the
therapeutic composition can block the immunosuppressive activity of Treg without the hindering
the activity of the effector T lymphocytes.     Preferably,   the IFN-gamma is produced naturally
from activated Th1 cells whereby these cells also express CD40L on the surface which can
upregulate the expression of IL-12 in host immune cells leading to increased host IFN-gamma
production.
[0047] The methods of the present invention can also include skewing the differentiation of the
naive T-cells to CD4+CD25+Tbet+GATA3- phenotype (Tbet+ cells).                Administration of the
therapeutic composition can skew the conversion of naive T-cells to the Tbet+ cells which are
indicative of a Th1 immune environment in a patient.            The presence of Tbet+ can lead to
promotion of a Th1 environment and to suppression of the immune tolerance activity due to the
promotion away from the production of Treg cells.

                                                 -8
[0048] The present invention includes administering a therapeutic composition that suppresses
the activity of Treg cells as described in the methods above. The therapeutic composition can
include living immune cells, where at least a portion are T-cells.       The T-cells are preferably
effector/memory T-cells (CD45RO+, CD62L h ) of the Thi phenotype (CD4+ T-cells that
produce IFN-y and not IL-4).       The effector/memory Th1 cells are activated at the time of
formulation and introduction to a patient and referred to herein as emTh-1 cells. The preferred
activation method is by the cross-linking of CD3 and CD28 surface molecules on the T-cells.
Other activation methods are also within the scope of the invention. The emTh- 1 cells preferably
express CD40L upon being activated and produce large amounts of inflammatory cytokines
(such as IFN- y, GM-CSF, and TNF-a).         These emTh-1 cells are preferably allogeneic to the
patient. Activation of emTh-1 can be performed as described, for example, in US Patent No.
7,435,592 to Har-Noy and formulated for administration in buffer as described in US Patent No.
7,402,431 to Har-Noy. Both of these patents are incorporated herein by reference. Activated
emTh-1 cells can be used in the therapeutic composition described herein.           Such activated e
mThl cells are available under the trademark ALLOSTIM from Immunovative Therapies, Ltd.
of Israel. Other activated allogeneic T-cells that exhibit functional characteristics similar to these
cells are also within the scope of this invention.    The therapeutic composition of the present
invention will be described in the context of comprising activated emTh-1 cells but therapeutic
compositions containing cells prepared using other methods but having similar functional
characteristics are all within the scope of the invention. Also in the scope of the invention are
non-living components of emTh- 1 cells, such as IFN-gamma and CD40L molecules.
[0049] In addition to emTh-1 cells, the therapeutic composition can include other components
that enhance the maintenance of a Thi environment in the patient and/or suppress the immune
tolerance of disease antigens by the patient. In some preferred embodiments, the therapeutic
composition can also include antigens associated with the disease. The therapeutic composition
can include one or more disease antigens.          If more than one antigen is included in the
composition, the antigens may be from the same antigen source or different antigen sources.
Any antigen source can be used in the formulation, for example these antigens can be sourced
from living cells or organisms, the source material can be freeze/thaw lysates, irradiation

                                                 -9
inactivated (or other inactivation method), used as whole cells or organisms or lysates therefrom.
In some preferred embodiments, tumor cells or tumor cell lysates can serve as the cell source
material for the antigens. The cell source material can be derived from autologous or allogeneic
cell sources or from cell lines. Antigens can also be sourced from naked DNA or RNA, which
encode for antigens. The nuclear material can be used alone or incorporated with viral vectors.
Another example of antigen source is anti-idiotypic antibodies or portions thereof that mimic
antigens, or other methods to mimic the structure of an antigen. Antigen-pulsed or transfected
dendritic cells (DC) can also be an antigen source in the composition. The DC can be pulsed
with peptides or whole proteins, recombinant proteins, or mRNA or DNA encoding for
antigen(s), or the DC can be fused with cells containing the antigens, or the DC can be
transfected with viral vectors such as retrovirus, lentivirus, adenovirus which contain the antigen,
or these antigen source components can be used alone without the DC.
[0050] One or more tumor associated antigens (TAA) can also be used in the therapeutic
composition, examples of TAA include: MART-1, gp100, tyrosinase, Melan A, TRP-1, tumor
specific mutated gene products, such as CDK-4,      p-catenin, MUM-1, oncogenes such as p53, and
ras (K-and H-ras), cancer testes antigens, such as MAGE, GAGE and NY-ESO1, over-expressed
self antigens such as MUC1, cyclin B1, Her2-neu, CEA, WT, p53, SART-1, PRAME, p15, and
viral antigens such as HPV E7, EBV-derived antigens and telomerase.
[0051] In a preferred embodiment, the antigenic component can include one or more chaperone
proteins (also known as heat shock proteins) isolated from dead infected tissue or tumors. Heat
shock proteins (HSP) are among the major targets of the immune response to bacterial, fungal
and parasitic pathogens. Tumor derived heat shock protein (hsp)-peptide complexes (particularly
hsp70 and grp94/gp96) have been demonstrated to serve as effective vaccines, producing anti
tumor immune responses in animals and in man. This approach utilizes the peptide binding
properties of stress proteins that are responsible for their functions as molecular chaperones in
numerous cellular processes.
[0052] Certain chaperones in extracellular milieu can also be capable of modulating innate and
adaptive immunity due to their ability to chaperone polypeptides and to interact with the host's
immune system, particularly professional antigen-presenting cells. Vaccination with HSP from

                                                  -10
tumors can elicit an anti-tumor response, and down-regulate immune suppression mechanisms.
The immunogenicity of HSPs can be derived from the antigenic peptides with which they
associate.
[0053] A preferred method for isolation of chaperone proteins for use as an antigen source is
described by Katsantis in US Pat No. 6,875,849. Additional methods are described by Srivastava
in US Pat Nos. 6,797,480; 6,187,312, 6,162,436; 6,139,841; 6,136,315; and 5,837,251. The HSP
can also be pulsed with antigens, including peptides, whole cells or cell lysates.
[0054] In one embodiment, tumor-derived Chaperone Rich Cell Lysate (CRCL) is used as an
antigen source and is obtained by the enrichment of the major chaperone proteins from tumor
lysate using a free solution-isolectric focusing (FS-IEF) technique as described in the Examples
below. This technique is a rapid and efficient procedure for obtaining up to 5 to 20 times more
antigenic material and in less time compared to conventional techniques. The FS-IEF method of
multiple chaperone complex enrichment can be desirable from a clinical standpoint in terms of
high yield from a potentially limited tumor source, and with a rapid turn-around time from tumor
harvest to treatment of the patient.
[0055] In addition, the antigens conventionally used in vaccines can also be used in the
pharmaceutical composition of the present invention, including whole microorganisms or part(s)
of the     microorganisms     such    as  live   attenuated   whole microorganisms,    inactivated
microorganisms, recombinant peptides and proteins, glycoproteins, glycolipids, lipopeptides,
synthetic peptides, or ruptured microorganisms, polysaccharides, used alone or conjugated to
carrier elements, such as carrier proteins, can also be used.
[0056] In general, any antigen or combination of antigens that are capable of being used for the
treatment or prevention of diseases can be used in the therapeutic composition. Antigens derived
from infectious pathogens can also serve as antigen sources and may be referred to herein as
disease causing antigens.     Examples of      diseases from which antigens can be sourced are:
diphtheria, tetanus, polio, rabies, whooping cough, hepatitis A, B and C, EBV, CMV, herpes 1
and 2, yellow fever, typhoid fever, chicken pox, variola (small pox), measles, mumps, German
measles, Japanese encephalitis, meningitis, influenza, pneumococcal infections, rotavirus
infections, AIDS (HIVI and 2), cancers, HTLV1 and 2, syphilis, HPV, tuberculosis, Lyme

                                               -11
disease, RSV infections, Trypanosomiasis, Dengue fever,           malaria, anthrax, ebola virus,
tularemia, Yersinia, West Nile virus, bacterial ailments caused by Chlamydia, Neisseria
gonorrheae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Moraxella catarrhalis,            Staphylococcus   aureus or
Haemophilus influenza type B, malaria, leishmaniasis, listeriosis, etc.
[0057] In one preferred embodiment, the therapeutic composition includes emTh-1 cells and also
the CRCL lysate. The emTh-1 cells and the CRCL lysate individually promotes Thi immunity
but the addition of the emTh-1 cells provides an adjuvant to increase the development of Thi
immunity and also promote suppression of the Treg activity. In addition, a synergistic response
can be seen when these two components are combined in the therapeutic composition such that
the combination is more effective than either composition alone.
[0058] The therapeutic composition may also include other components or factors that are
capable of interfering with decreasing or inhibiting the immune tolerance activity of Treg cells.
In one embodiment, the therapeutic composition may include exogenous IFN-gamma. The IFN
gamma may be a purified or a recombinant IFN-gamma. The therapeutic composition may also
include anti-TGF-beta antibodies.     TGF-beta generally increases the Treg cell activity.     The
inclusion of anti-TGF-beta antibodies in the therapeutic composition can decrease the activity of
Treg cells.
[0059] The therapeutic composition may be administered via all the routes conventionally used
including the parenteral, intradermal, intramuscular, subcutaneous or mucosal routes. In certain
embodiments, the composition may also be administered intranodally or intratumorally. The
allogeneic emTh- 1 cells are preferably derived from a deliberately HLA-mismatched donor.
Preferred dosage in a therapeutic composition is at least about 1 x 107 cells for intradermal route
and more preferred is between about 5 x 107 to 1 x 109 cells for intravenous route. Dosages of
outside this range that can primarily generate the desired immune response are also within the
scope of this invention.
[0060] The therapeutic composition may be administered one or more times and by different
routes at each administration. If administered more than once, a second dose of the composition
may be administered at least 3 days and preferably at least 7-14 days after administration of the
first dose. Additional doses of the therapeutic composition may be administered as needed. In

                                               -12
one preferred embodiment, emThl cells are first administered intradermally and then a CRCL
composition is administered intradermally in the same location. These intradermal injection are
repeated about 3-6 times and about 3-10 days apart.      In order then to activate memory cells
generated by this vaccination schedule, an intravenous infusion of the emThl cells alone can be
administered.
[0061] The present invention also includes a method for stimulating a therapeutic immune effect
in a patient comprising decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells by administering
a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic Thi cells to a patient wherein decreasing and/or
inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells induces a therapeutic effect against the disease in the
patient.  The present invention also includes a method of impairing the immunosuppressive
functions in a patient comprising decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells by
administering a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic Thi cells to a patient wherein
decreasing and/or inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells reduces the immunosuppressive
functions in the patient.
                                           EXAMPLES
Materials and Methods
[0062] Mice-Mice were housed under specific pathogen-free conditions and cared for according
to the guidelines of the University of Arizona Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee.
Female BALB/c (H2 d), C57BL6 (H2), severe combined immunodeficiency SCID (H2 d) and
Nude (H2 ) mice were obtained from the National Cancer Institute (Bethesda, MD).          IFN-y
Receptor-'- (H2d) mice were purchased from the Jackson Immunoresearch                Laboratories
(Sacramento, CA). FoxP3-EGFP (H2 d) mice that co-express greeen fluorescent protein (GFP)
and FoxP3 under the control of the endogenous promoter were obtained from Jackson
Immunoresearch Laboratories. GFP expression allows the accurate identification and isolation
of FoxP3+ Tregs. Congenic Thyl.1 mice (Cby.PL(B6)-Thyla/ScrJ) were obtained from Jackson
Immunoresearch Laboratories.      These animals carry the T lymphocyte-specific Thyl.1 allele.
Donor T cells from Thyl.2 mice can be disctinguished from recipient Thyl.1 mouse T cells
using anti=Thyl.2 antibodies. Mice were used at the age of 6-8 weeks.

                                                  -13
[0063] Preparation of allogeneic, activated emTh-1 cells - The emTh- 1 cells were generated and
activated in vitro as described in Har-Noy et al, Leukemia Research (2009) 33:525-538 and Har
Noy et al., Leukemia Research (2008) 32:1903-1913. Spleen cells from C57BL/6 mice were
harvested and treated with ammonium chloride-potassium (ACK) buffer for lysis of red blood
cells. CD4' T cells were then isolated using CD4' microbeads and an autoMACS Tm separator
device (Miltenyi Biotec, Auburn, CA). Positively and negatively selected cells were routinely
analyzed by flow cytometry to assess the purity of each fraction. These CD4 T lymphocytes
were expanded in RPMI medium (Gibco/BRL, Gaithersburg, MD) supplemented with 10% heat
inactivated fetal bovine serum (Gemini Bio-products, Woodland, CA), with anti-CD3 and anti
CD28-coated paramagnetic beads (CD3/CD28 T-cell Expander beads, Dynal/Invitrogen) at an
initial bead:CD4' cell ratio of 3:1, and in presence of 20 IU/mL recombinant mouse (rm)IL-2, 20
ng/mL rmIL-7, 10 ng/mL rmIL-12 (Peprotech, New Jersey) and 10 Vg/mL anti-mouse IL-4 mAb
(Becton Dickenson). Additional complete media containing rmIL-2, rmIL-7, anti-IL-4 mAb and
CD3/CD28 beads was added to the culture daily from days 3 to 6 to maintain constant cell
density (0.5-1 x 106 cells/mL).     The amount of beads added was calculated to maintain a 1:1
bead:cell ratio as the cells expanded. After 6 days in culture, the expansion of CD4' T cells was
approximately 60 to 100-fold the initial number of plated cells at day 0. Cells were harvested on
day 6 and de-beaded by physical disruption and passage over a magnet. These cells were either
used fresh or stored in liquid nitrogen for future use.      A similar protocol was followed to
generate emTh-1 cells from C57BL/6 mice.
[0064] Human      emTh-1      cells  were    generated  from   healthy donor     peripheral  blood
lymphocytes isolated by density centrifugation with lymphocyte separation medium (1.077;
Eurobio). CD4       T cells were then isolated using human CD4 microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec) and
cultured with human T-cell expander beads          (Dynabeads;   Invitrogen)   in   the   presence
of    20 IU/mL recombinant human IL-2 (rhIL-2), 20 ng/mL rhIL-7, 10 ng/mL rhIL-12
(Peprotech), and 10        g/mL anti-human IL-4 mAb (BD Bio- sciences). Human CD4 T-cell
cultures were maintained as described in the previous paragraph for mouse cells. Human studies
were approved by the institutional review board (IRB00005448; FWA00004218), with informed
consent in compliance with the Declaration of Helsinki

                                               -14
[0065] Magnetic cell sorting-Spleens isolated from BALB/c or C57BL6 mice were harvested
and dissociated. CD4*CD62L*, CD4*CD25* and CD4*CD25- T lymphocytes were purified by
magnetic cell sorting using mouse CD4*CD62L* naive T cell or CD4*CD25* T regulatory cell
isolation kits and an autoMACSm separator according to the manufacturers'          instructions
(Miltenyi Biotec, Auburn, CA).      The CD4*CD25* T lymphocytes isolated by this technique
express high level of the transcription factor FoxP3 and are endowed with immunosuppressive
properties.
[0066] Conversion of CD4*CD62L* T cells into CD4*CD25*FoxP3* Treg--CD4*CD25-CD62L*
naive T cells were isolated from Balb/c mouse splenocytes as described above, were cultured in
complete medium in 96-well plate (100 cells per well) and were activated with anti-CD3/anti
CD28 T cell expander beads (Dynabeads, Invitrogen) at a T lymphocyte:bead ratio of 1:1) in
presence of TGF-P (5 ng/ml) for 72 hrs at 37'C. Some wells were treated with the supernatant of
allogeneic    activated   CD4*    emTh-1   cells.    Percentage    of    CD4*CD25*FoxP3*    and
CD4*CD25*FoxP3- cells were determined by flow cytometry analysis.
[0067] Flow cytometry analysis and antibodies--Cells (~ 106) were washed in PBS containing 3%
heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum and 0.09% sodium azide (Sigma Chemical) and were first
incubated with an Fc receptor-blocking Ab (BD Biosciences Pharmingen, San Diego, CA) for 5
min, then with saturating amounts of the appropriate combination of fluorochrome-conjugated
Ab for 40 min. Cells were then washed and analysed using a FACS calibur (Becton Dickinson
Immunocytometry Systems, San Jose, CA). A minimum of 10,000 events were collected for
each sample, and data analysis was performed with the CellQwest Pro software (Becton
Dickinson Immunocytometry Systems). For FoxP3 detection, CD4*CD25* or CD4*CD25- T
cells purified by magnetic cell sorting or converted CD4*CD25' Treg generated in vitro were
fixed, permeabilized, stained using an Allophycocyanin (APC) anti-mouse FoxP3 staining set
following the provider's instructions (Clone FJK-16, eBioscience, San Diego, CA), and analyzed
by flow cytometry.      For the monitoring of CD4*CD25* Treg, cells were first stained with
fluorescein    isothiocyanate   (FITC)-conjugated   anti-CD4    (rat   IgG2b;  BD  Biosciences
Pharmingen) and phycoerythrin        (PE)-conjugated anti-CD25      (rat IgG1; BD Biosciences
Pharmingen) antibodies.      Then, cells were stained using eBioscience FoxP3 staining set as

                                                  -15
described above. The expression of the transcription factors Tbet and Gata-3 (expressed by Th- 1
and Th-2 cells, respectively) were evaluated by intracellular staining using anti-mouse Tbet
phycoerythrin and anti-mouse Gata-3-phycoerythrin monoclonal antibodies (BD Biosciences
Pharmingen). Isotype control antibodies were purchased from BD Biosciences Pharmingen (PE
conjugated rat IgGI, FITC-conjugated rat IgG2a) or eBioscience (APC-conjugated rat IgGI).
[0068] T cell proliferation and suppression assays--CD4*CD25+ and CD4*CD25- T cells were
purified from splenocytes and lymph node cells using Miltenyi isolation kits.      The cells were
cultured for 48 hrs in 96-well plates at 37 0C either in complete medium or with activated emTh- 1
cell supernatant and activated with plate-bound anti-CD3, soluble anti-CD28 and IL-2. In other
experiments, untreated, activated emTh-1 cell supernatant pretreated or freshly isolated
CD4*CD25- T cells (1 x 105) were co-cultured for 48 hrs in round-bottom 96-well plates with
treated or untreated CD4*CD25* T cells (1 x 10 ). Anti-CD3/CD28 T cell expander beads
Dynabeads were added in all co-cultures (cell/bead=1/1). Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) (Millipore
Corporation of Massachusetts) was then added for an additional 12 hrs. The cells were then
fixed and the incorporation of BrdU detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
according to the manufacturers' procedures (Millipore Corporation of Massachusetts). Cultures
were set up in sixplicates.
[0069] Similar experiments were performed using human peripheral              blood lymphocytes
isolated by density centrifugation with 1.077 lymphocyte separation medium. CD4*CD25'
and CD4*CD25- T cells were purified from total peripheral blood mononuclear cells using a
human regulatory T-cell isolation kit (Miltenyi Biotec). Cells were cultured for 24 hours in 96
well plates at 37 0 C either in complete medium or with human emTh- 1 supernatant, and activated
with plate-bound anti-CD3 (5 ng/mL), soluble anti-CD28 (5 ng/mL), and IL-2 (20 IU/mL).
CD4* CD25- responder T cells were then stained using the CellTrace Violet cell-proliferation kit
according to the manufacturer's procedure (Invitrogen). Labeled cells were cocultured with CD4'
CD25* T cells        (1x10 5 ) with human anti-CD3/CD28 T-cell expander beads (cell:bead ratio
1:1) and cell division was analyzed by flow cytometry after 72 hours, as indicated by the
manufacturer.

                                                -16
[0070] Detection of cytokine production by ELISA--The concentrations of IFN-y and TNF-a in
cell culture supernatants were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
kits according to the manufacturers' procedures (eBiosciences).
[0071] 12B1 leukemia cells and tumor generation--The murine leukemia cell line 12B1 was
obtained by retroviral transformation of BALB/c bone marrow cells with the human bcr-abl
(b3a2) fusion gene. These cells express the p210 bcr-abl protein. This is an aggressive leukemia,
with the 100% lethal dose (LDioo)      being 100 cells after tail vein injection.  The cells were
cultured (37 0 C, 5% CO2 ) in RPMI medium (Gibco/BRL, Gaithersburg, MD) supplemented with
10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (Gemini Bio-products, Woodland, CA).           12B1 cells
were obtained from Dr Wei Chen (Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH), were tested routinely and
found to be free of Mycoplasma contamination.
[0072] For tumor generation, 12B1 cells were first washed 3 times in PBS (Gibco/BRL), then
counted and adjusted to a concentration of 5 x 104 cells/mL.         Female BALB/c mice were
injected with 0.1 mL (5 x 103 cells) subcutaneously in the right groin and were monitored for
tumor development.
[0073] CRCL preparation-- 12B 1 tumor-derived CRCL were prepared.           Briefly, tumor tissues
were homogenized in detergent-containing buffers and the obtained high-speed supernatants
were subjected to FS-IEF in a Rotofor device (Bio-Rad) at 15W constant power. Fractions were
harvested and analyzed for chaperone protein content. Fractions of interest were pooled and
prepared as vaccines by dialysis, detergent removal, and centrifugal concentration.            The
endotoxin level contained in the CRCL preparation was determined using the Limulus
Amebocyte Lysate (LAL) assay kit (Cambrex Bio Science, Walkersville, MD) according to the
manufacturer's instructions.   The level of endotoxin in CRCL was lower than that in media
control (<0.01 EU/Vg). 12B1 CRCL was used for in vivo vaccination of mice.
[0074] Tumor growth in vivo and combination immunotherapv--BALB/c mice were injected
with 5 x 103 viable 12B1 cells in the right groin on day 0. Allogeneic (C57BL6) activated CD4'
cells (105 cells/mouse) or 12B1-derived CRCL vaccine (25 pg/mouse) or cells plus CRCL were
administered on days +3, +7 and +14. The treatments were given in the right footpads in a total
volume of 100 [lI. Tumor growth was monitored every other day and mice were euthanized

                                                 -17
when tumor volume reached 4000 mm 3 .           Tumor-free survival was compared between the
different treatment groups.
[0075] Depletion of immune cells in vivo--Mice were depleted of NK cells by intraperitoneal
injections with anti-asialo GM1 antibodies (25 pl/mouse, 1/8 diluted with PBS; Wako
Chemicals, Osaka, Japan) on days -1, +3 and +5.
[0076] Statistics--Kaplan-Meier curves were generated and analyzed by log-rank statistics to
determine survival percentages and differences between the treatment groups.             In other
experiments, Student's t tests were used to determine significant differences (p<XXXX) between
groups.
[0077] CD4rCD25-CD62L± naive T cells were isolated from mouse spleens using magenetic
activated cell sorting. The cells were activated using T-cell expander beads (cell:bead ratio 1:1),
resuspended in the culture medium from different tumor cell lines (12B1, B16, 4T1) and treated
with the supernatants of emTh-1 cells. In Fig. 1A, treated cells were incubated in a 96-well plate
at 37 0C for 72hrs and FoxP3 expression was determined using Flow Cytometry analysis. Fig. lB
shows the pooled data from three independent experiments. The data was graphed and Student's
t tests were used to analyze the diagrams.
[0078] As shown in Figs. 1A and iB, Th-1 cell supernatants impaired the differentiation of
CD4*CD25*FoxP3* Treg from naive CD4*CD25-FoxP3- T cells induced by tumor cells or TGF
j in vitro. Treg expansion may result from the conversion of CD4'CD25-FoxP3- T cells into
CD4*CD25+FoxP3* or from the proliferation of naturally occurring Treg.           The transcription
factor FoxP3 is required for the induction of Treg suppressive function, and its expression in
non-regulatory cells converts them into immunosuppressive cells. The role of soluble factors
produced by effector-memory Th- 1 cells was examined. In particular, studies were done to see if
TGF- may negatively regulate the production of Treg from naive T cells induced by different
TGF-j-secreting tumors in vivo. 12B1, B16 melanoma and 4T1 cells are known to be capable of
secreting TGF-     in culture. The culture of naive CD4*CD62L* T cells with either of these 3
tumor cell lines triggered their differentiation into FoxP3r T cells (Figure TA). Tumor-induced
FoxP3 expression was however significantly dampened by the presence of the supernatant of
activated emTh-l cells during the culture (Fig. 1A,B).

                                                -18
[0079] CD4*CD25-CD62L* naive T cells were cultured for 72 hours with T-cell expander beads
(cell:bead ratio 1:1) with or without TGF-p (5ng/mL) in the presence or absence of the emTh- 1
supernatant (emTh-1 sup). Cells were then analyzed by flow cytometry. Fig. 2A and Fig. 2B ae
representative dot plots or histogram plots from 10 independent experiments.         Fig. C is a
percentage of CD4*CD25*FoxP3- activated          T cells in total CD4+ T lymphocytes. P<.01, a
significant difference compared with cells cutltured without emTh- 1 supernatant. Fig. 2D is the
expression of the transcription factors FoxP3, Tbet and GATA-3 was determined in CD4*CD25
CD62L* T cells cultured for 72 hours with T-cell expander beads with or without TGF- P1 treated
or not with emTh- 1 sup. Representative results of three experiments are shown in Fig. 2D.
The data in Fig. 2A-2G indicate that emTh- 1 supernatants significantly inhibited TGF- 3-induced
conversion of naive T cells into FoxP3* T lymphocytes (Figs. 2A and 2B). Furthermore, the
number of activated effector (CD25*FoxP3-) cells were augmented by the allogeneic emTh- 1
supernatant (Fig. 2C) The effect was seen in a dose dependent manner (Fig. 2E). TGF-p-induced
conversion of naive CD4*CD25-FoxP3-T cells isolated from FoxP3EGFP-transgenic mice was
performed in the presence or absence of emTh-1 supernatant. GFP-positive (ie, FoxP3
expressing) cells were then sorted and their suppressive activity evaluated. The results demon
strated that the function of these residual FoxP3-expressing iTregs was impaired (Fig. 2F). In
addition, emTh-1 supernatant added to FoxP3* iTregs that had been previously converted
significantly impaired their immunosuppressive function (Fig. 2G).
[0080] Effector-memory Th-1 supernatants were evaluated to see if they may skew TGF-0
induced Foxp3' T cell differentiation toward pro-inflammatory cell lineage. The transcription
factors T-bet and GATA-3 are predominantly expressed by Th1 or Th2 cells, respectively. Flow
cytometry analysis indicated that the majority of CD4' T cells obtained after 72 hrs of culture in
presence of TGF-P plus Th-1 cell supernatants expressed low level of Gata-3 and FoxP3. Most
of the obtained cells displayed a Tbet-positive phenotype consistent with a Th-1 polarization (Fig
2D).   These results thus indicated that the emTh-1 cells produce soluble factors capable of
switching TGF-p-dependent polarization of naive T cells from FoxP3' Treg to the pro
inflammatory Th- 1 lineage.

                                              -19
[0081] CD4rCD25-CD62L± naive T cells were cultured for 72 hours with T-cell expander beads
with or without TGF-1 in the presence or absence of emTh-l supernatant with or without
blocking antibodies against (Fig. 3A) mouse IFN-y, or (Fig. 3B) mouse TNF-a. In Figs. 3C and
3D, CD4±CD25-CD62Lr naive T cells were isolated from IFN-yR-'- mice spleens and cultured
for 72 hours with T-cell expander beads with or without TGF- 1 in the presence or absence of
emTh-1 supernatant treated with TGF-p1 and in the presence or absence of emTh-1 supernatant..
Percentages of the FoxP3 expressing cells were determined by Flow Cytometer.
[0082] The involvement of the major cytokines produced by Th- 1 cells was examined.        High
levels of IFN-y and TNF-a were detected in the supernatants from Th-1 cell culture.
Neutralization, using blocking antibodies, of IFN-y but not TNF-a abrogated the effects of
emTh-1 supernatant, restoring TGF-p induced conversion of naive cells to FoxP3-expressing T
cells (Figs. 3Aand 3B). This data indicated that recombinant IFN-y, but not TNF-a, impaired the
negative modulation of TGF- induced generation of FoxP3' T cells (Figs. 3A and 3B). These
results were confirmed using IFN-yR-'- mice. The data depicted in Figs. 3C and 3D indicated
that the conversion of CD4' naive T cells isolated from IFN-yR-'- mice into FoxP3r T cells was
not modified by Th-1 cell supernatants (Figs.3C and 3D). IFN-y therefore represented a major
mechanism responsible for Th-1-mediated inhibition of FoxP3' T lymphocytes generation.
[0083] In Fig. 4A, CD4*CD25*nTregs were isolated from BALB/c mouse lymphoid tissues and
cultured for the indicated periods of time with plate-bound anti-CD3 (5 ng/mL), soluble anti
CD28 (5 ng/mL), and IL-2 (20 IU/mL) with or without emTh-1 supernatant. FoxP3 expression
was then determined using flow cytometry. In Fig. 4B, CD4*CD25' nTregs were cultured for 48
hours with plate-bound anti-CD3, soluble anti-CD28, and IL-2 with or without emTh-1
supernatant. Cells were then washed extensively with complete medium. Responder CD4+
CD25-T lymphocytes were stimulated with anti-CD3/anti-CD28 T-cell expander beads in the
absence (CD25-) or presence of untreated nTregs (CD25- + untreated nTreg) or in the presence of
emTh-1     supernatant-treated nTregs   (CD25-    [nTreg]emTh-1sup). Responder CD4*CD25-      T
lymphocyte proliferation was determined after 48 hours using BrdU incorporation assays. NS,
nonsignificant; P <.001, a significant difference compared with responder CD25- T cells
cultured with untreated Tregs. In Fig. 4C, CD4+CD25-            T lymphocytes were first treated

                                               -20
([CD 2 5 -]emTh-sup) or not (untreated CD25 ) for 48 hours with emTh-1 supernatant, washed
extensively with complete medium, and cocultured for 48 hours with freshly isolated CD4*CD25*
nTregs (+nTreg). Proliferation of responder CD25- T cells was then determined using BrdU
incorporation assays. P < .001. In Fig. 4D, IFN- y concentration was assessed in the
cocultures as described for Fig. 4C.
[0084] In Fig. 4E, CD4*CD25* Treg were isolated from human PBMC and were exposed to
human emTh- 1 cell supernatant for 24 hours. Cell Trace Violet-labeled CD25- responder T cells
were then added to untreated Treg (CD25 - + untreated Treg) or emTh- 1 pretreated Treg (CD25
+ [Treg]emTh-1sup). In Fig. 4F, Human CD4*CD25- T lymphocytes were first treated ([CD25-]emTh
1suP) or not (untreated CD25-) with emTh-1 supernatant, then labeled with Cell Trace Violet and
cocultured with freshly isolated CD4*CD25* Treg (+Treg).              Responder CD 25- T-cell
proliferation was determined using flow cytometry analysis as described in material and
methods.
[0085] The results in Fig. 4A demonstrated that FoxP3 expression in nTregs was not impaired
by the emTh-1 supernatant. nTregs isolated from mouse lymphoid tissues were activated with
anti-CD3 and anti- CD28       antibodies and IL-2. The cells were cultured in either complete
medium or emTh- 1 supernatant for 48 hours and then washed before being cocultured with
freshly isolated CD4+CD25 cells for an additional 48 hours. The ability of emTh- 1 supernatant
treated or untreated nTregs to inhibit the proliferation of CD4 CD25 cells was analyzed using
BrdU incorporation assays. The data indicated that emTh-1 supernatant (Fig. 4B) or IFN
gamma significantly inhibited the capacity of Tregs to suppress CD4 CD25* conventional T
cell proliferation.     Similar results were obtained using human CD4+CD25+ Tregs and
CD4 CD25 responder T cells isolated from peripheral blood lymphocytes (Fig. 4E).
[0086] T cells were incubated for 48 hours with emTh-1 supernatant and then cocultured
with freshly isolated CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ nTregs.          Neither the proliferation (Fig. 4C) nor the
production of IFN-gamma (Fig. 4D) of CD4 CD25 T cells pretreated with emTh-1 supernatant
was suppressed by Tregs. Similar results were obtained when human CD4 CD25+ responder T
cells pre-incubated with emTh-1 supernatant were exposed to human CD4 CD25* Tregs (Fig.

                                                 -21
4F). These data indicated that emTh-1 cells not only impair the inhibitory function of Tregs, but
also induce resistance of effector T cells to Treg-mediated inhibition.
[0087] Naive Balb/c mice were injected with 5 X 103 viable 12B1 cells in the right groin on day
0. In Fig. 5A, vaccinations were carried out on days +3, +7 and +14. The treatments were given
in the right footpads as described in "Material and methods". Survival of mice was monitored
and displayed in the Kaplan-Meyer plots. In Fig. 5B, SCID mice were injected with 5 X 103
viable 12B1 cells in the right groin on day 0 and treated with either PBS, activated emTh-1 or the
combination of activated emTh-1 +CRCL by the footpad injections on days +3, +7 and +14. In
Fig. 5C, immunocompetent Balb/c mice were injected with tumor cells and treated with either
PBS or the combination of activated emTh-1 + CRCL on days +3, +7 and +14.           In some groups
of mice, NK cells were depleted using i.p. injections of anti-asialo GM1 antibodies on days -1,
+3 and +5 as described "Material and methods". In all the experiments survival of mice was
monitored and displayed in the Kaplan-Meyer plots. In Fig. 5D, C57BL/6 mice were injected
with 5 X 105 B16 cells on day 0. Animals were then treated (day 3, 5 and 7) wit B16 derived
CRCL plus emTh-1 + B16 CRCL). Tumor volume was monitored every other day as described
in material and methods. Animal survival is depicted using the Kaplan-Meyer analysis.
[0088] To induce tumor specific immunity, allogeneic effector-memory Th-1 cell-based
immunotherapy was evaluated to see if it can be combined with a personalized vaccine as CRCL
derived from the same type of tumor. As shown in the results of Fig. 5, allogeneic emTh-1 cells
can be safely delivered in vivo and efficiently combined with tumor-derived chaperone-rich cell
lysate (CRCL) to treat mice with 12B 1 leukemia. Established 12B 1 tumors in naive Balb/c mice
were used and confirmed that allogeneic effector-memory Th-1 cell-based immunotherapy can
be efficiently combined with CRCL vaccination strategy resulting in a significant tumor-free
survival of treated animals (Fig. 5A). Similar results were obtained with a B16 melanoma model
that consisted of B16 tumor-bearing C57BL/6 mice treated with B 16-derived CRCL plus emTh
1 cells generated from Balb/c mice (See Fig. 5D).
[0089] The role of T cells in the anti-tumor responses induced by CRCL plus activated emTh- 1
was defined by utilizing SCID and NUDE mice. 12B 1 tumor-bearing SCID mice were treated
with CRCL plus activated emTh-1 3, 7 and 14 days after tumor cell inoculation as described

                                                -22
above. CRCL plus activated emTh-1 immunotherapy did not improve survival of 12B1 tumor
bearing SCID mice (Fig. 5B). Similar results were obtained using NUDE mice. These data
indicated that the protective effects of allogeneic Th-1 plus CRCL combination immunotherapy
against 12B Itumors depend on a T cell-mediated immune response.     Consistent with these data,
the in vivo depletion of NK cells in immunocompetent mice using anti-asialo-GM1 antibodies
did not significantly impair the therapeutic efficacy of allogeneic Th-1 plus CRCL treatment,
indicating that NK cells do not play a major role in the antitumor immune responses induced by
the combination therapy (Fig. 5C). Thus, the tumor-protecting effects of immunotherapy based
on allogeneic activated emTh-1 cells in combination with CRCL vaccine depend on T
lymphocytes.
[0090] Naive BALB/c mice were injected with 5x10 3 12B1 cells (subcutaneously in the right
groin) on day 0 and vaccinated as described for Fig. 5. Surviving tumor-free mice were then
rechallenged with 5x10 3 12B1 cells given subcutaneously in the right groin and 1x10 6 A20 cells
given subcutaneously in the left groin on day 45. Tumor volume was determined every other day.
In Fig. 6A, A20 tumor volume monitored in control mice. In Fig. 6B, A20 tumor volume
monitored in emTh-1 plus CRCL-treated mice. In Fig. 3C, 12B1 volume monitored in control
group. In Fig. 3D, 12B1 tumor volume monitored in emTh-1 plus CRCL-treated animals. Results
are representative of 2 independent experiments.
[0091] Surviving mice treated with CRCL plus allogeneic activated emTh-1 cells were re
challenged with the parental 12B1 tumor cells in the right groin and with an unrelated B cell
leukemia (A20, H-2D) in the opposite groin. A20 tumors developed in all 8 mice in both treated
and control groups (Figs. 6A and 6B). 5 out of 8 mice were protected against 12B1 tumor re
challenge in the CRCL plus allogeneic effector-memory Th-1 cell group and two showed the
delay in tumor growth, while all control mice developed 12B1 tumors (Figs. 6C and 6D). These
results thus indicate that combination immunotherapy consisting of CRCL plus allogeneic
activated emTh-1 cells induces long lasting tumor-specific immunity in the majority of treated
animals.
[0092] In Fig. 7A, emTh-1 plus CRCL immunotherapy inducee tumor-specific killer T
lymphocytes. B16 tumor-bearing mice were injected with control PBS or were treated with

                                             -23
B16-derived CRCL and allogeneic emTh-1 cells as indicated in materials and methods.
Seven days after the last vaccination, splenocytes were harvested and incubated for 3 days
with CRCL (25 micrograms/mL) and 50 U/mL IL-2. T lymphocytes were then purified on a
nylon wool column and incubated for 36 hours with either B16 tumor cells or irrelevant 4T1
breast cancer cell targets as indicated (effector T cells to target tumor cells ratio 20:1).
Cytotoxicity was determined. Control T, tumor cells cultured with T lymphocytes from mice
injected with PBS; +T [emTh-1], tumor cells cultured with T lymphocytes from mice treated
with CRCL plus emTh-1. In Fig. 7B, emTh-1 cells skewed the differentiation of CD4*CD25
FoxP3- naive T lymphocytes toward CD4*CD25*FoxP3- effector T cells rather than Tregs in
vivo. CD4*CD25-FoxP3- naive T lymphocytes isolated from Thyl.2 FoxP3EGFP transgenic
BALB/c mice (107 cells) were transferred to 12B 1 tumor-bearing congenic Thy 1.1 BALB/c
mice. Animals were treated with emTh-1 cells (+emTh-1 cells) or with control PBS (No emTh- 1
cells). Endogenous T cells of recipient Thyl.1 mice express the Thyl.1 but not the Thyl.2
antigen, which allows the specific tracking and identification of Thyl.2 T lymphocytes in
Thyl.1 mice. Spleens were harvested and dissociated, and conversion of transferred naive
Thyl.2 CD4*CD25-FoxP3- T cells into GFP+ (FoxP3-expres sing) Treg in vivo was determined
by evaluating the frequency of Thyl.2   GFP+ cells after gating on the CD4' T-cell population
using flow cytometry. In Fig. 7C, emTh-1 cells impaiedr Treg suppressive function in vivo.
Responder CD4*CD25- T lymphocytes were stimulated with anti-CD3/anti-CD28 T-cell
expander beads in the absence (CD25-) or presence of Tregs isolated from the draining lymph
nodes of untreated tumor-bearing mice (CD25- + [Treg]untreated) or of tumor-bearing mice
treated with emTh-1 (CD25-+[Treg]emTh-1). Responder CD4+CD25- T-lymphocyte proliferation
was determined after 48 hours using BrdU incorporation assays.
[0093] The antitumoral function of T cells isolated from CRCL plus emTh- 1 cell-treated mice
was analyzed. Lymphocytes purified from the spleens of animals receiving the combination
therapy were capable of specifically killing parental tumor cells but not irrelevant target
cancer cells (Fig. 7A). EmTh-1    cells were    able to   skew the    differentiation   of naive
Thyl.2 CD4*CD25-FoxP3- T lymphocytes transferred to 12B1 tumor-bearing           congenic
Thyl.1 mice toward Thyl.2        CD4+CD25*FoxP3-       effector T-cells   rather   than  Thyl.2

                                                -24
CD4*CD25*FoxP3* Tregs (Fig. 7B). In addition, the suppressive function of Tregs isolated
from tumor-bearing animals treated with emTh- 1 cells was significantly reduced (Fig. 7C). This
confirmed that the effects of emTh- 1 cells on Tregs observed in vitro also occur in vivo, and also
demonstrated that the mechanism by which emTh-1 cells augment the efficacy of CRCL
vaccination involves the inhibition of tumor-induced Tregs.
[0094] Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred
embodiments, workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and
detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                               - 25
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. A method of suppressing immune tolerance of a disease in a patient comprising:
     decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells by administering a therapeutic
            composition comprising allogeneic, activated effector/memory Th1 cells and
            components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta
     wherein decreasing and/or inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells reduces the immune
            tolerance of disease antigens in the patient while simultaneously promoting the
            function of conventional effector T lymphocytes in the patient.
  2. A method for stimulating a therapeutic immune effect in a patient comprising:
     decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells by administering a therapeutic
            composition comprising allogeneic, activated effector/memory Th1 cells and
            components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta
     wherein decreasing and/or inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells induces a therapeutic
            effect against the disease in the patient while simultaneously promoting the function
            of conventional effector T lymphocytes in the patient.
  3. A method of impairing the immunosuppressive functions in a patient comprising:
     decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells by administering a therapeutic
            composition comprising allogeneic, activated effector/memory Th1 cells and
            components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta
     wherein decreasing      and/or inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells reduces the
            immunosuppressive functions in the patient while simultaneously promoting the
            function of conventional effector T lymphocytes in the patient.
  4. The method     of any     one of claims        1, 2 and   3,  wherein   the Treg cells    are
     CD4+CD25+FoxP3+.

                                             - 26
5.  The method of any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the suppressive activity of the Treg
    cells is inhibited by decreasing the conversion of naive T cells (CD4CD25-FoxP3-) to iTreg
    cells.
6. The method of any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the suppressive activity of the Treg
    cells is by inhibition of nTreg cells.
7. The method of any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises disease antigens or lysates associated with the disease antigens.
8.  The method of any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises chaperone rich cell lysate of the disease antigens.
9. The method of any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises exogenous IFN-y.
10. The method of any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises CD40L.
11. The method of any one of claims 1, 2 and 3, wherein the disease is cancer or an infectious
    disease.
12. A method of suppressing immune tolerance and promoting a therapeutic effect in patients
    with a disease comprising administering allogeneic, activated effector/memory Th1 cells,
    components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta and a source of disease
    antigens wherein the Th1 cells and the disease antigens are administered at the same
    location.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the Th1 cells and the disease antigens are administered
    by intradermal injections.

                                             - 27
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the activated Th1 cells are administered prior to the
    source of disease antigens.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the source of disease antigens is CRCL.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the Th1 cells and the source of disease antigens are
    administered at least 3 times and at intervals of about 3-10 days until the patient exhibits a
    therapeutic effect.
17. A composition comprising a source of disease antigens and an adjuvant wherein the disease
    antigens are contained within chaperone proteins and the adjuvant comprises activated
    allogeneic effector/memory ThI cells, the composition further comprising components that
    interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta.
18. The composition of claim 17, wherein the composition further comprises exogenous IFN
    7.
19. The composition of claim 17, wherein the composition further comprises CD40L.
20. The use of a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic, activated effector/memory
    Th1 cells and components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta in the
    manufacture of a medicament for the suppressing immune tolerance of a disease by
    decreasing the immunosuppressive activity of Treg cells, which reduces the immune
    tolerance of disease antigens in the patient while simultaneously promoting the function of
    conventional effector T lymphocytes in the patient in need thereof.
21. The use of a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic, activated effector/memory
    Th1 cells and components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta in the
    manufacture of a medicament for stimulating a therapeutic immune effect in a patient in

                                             - 28
    need thereof by reducing the immune tolerance of disease antigens in the patient while
    simultaneously promoting the function of conventional effector T lymphocytes in the
    patient.
22. The use of a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic, activated effector/memory
    Th1 cells and components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta in the
    manufacture of a medicament for impairing the immunosuppressive functions in a patient
    in need thereof by decreasing or inhibiting the activity of the Treg cells reduces the
    immunosuppressive functions in the patient while simultaneously promoting the function
    of conventional effector T lymphocytes in the patient.
23. The use      of any    one   of claims   20,  21   and 22,    wherein the Treg  cells are
    CD4+CD25+FoxP3+.
24. The use of any one of claims 20, 21 and 22, wherein the suppressive activity of the Treg
    cells is inhibited by decreasing the conversion of naive T cells (CD4CD25-FoxP3-) to iTreg
    cells.
25. The use of any one of claims 20, 21 and 22, wherein the suppressive activity of the Treg
    cells is by inhibition of nTreg cells.
26. The use of any one of claims 20, 21 and 22, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises disease antigens or lysates associated with the disease antigens.
27. The use of any one of claims 20, 21 and 22, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises chaperone rich cell lysate of the disease antigens.
28. The use of any one of claims 20, 21 and 22, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises exogenous IFN-y.

                                            - 29
29. The use of any one of claims 20, 21 and 22, wherein the therapeutic composition further
    comprises CD40L.
30. The use of any one of claims 20, 21 and 22, wherein the disease is cancer or an infectious
    disease.
31. The use of a therapeutic composition comprising allogeneic, activated effector/memory
    Th1 cells, components that interact and reduce the activity of TGF-beta and a source of
    disease antigens in the manufacture of a medicament for suppressing immune tolerance
    and promoting a therapeutic effect in a patient with a disease, wherein the medicament is
    formulated for administration at the same location in the patient's body.
32. The use as claimed in claim 31, wherein the medicament is formulated to administer the
    Th1 cells and the disease antigens by one or more intradermal injection.
33. The use as claimed in claim 31, wherein the medicament is formulated to administer the
    activated Th1 cells prior to the source of disease antigens.
34. The use as claimed in claim 31, wherein the source of disease antigens is CRCL.
35. The use as claimed in claim 31, wherein the medicament is formulated for administration
    at least 3 times and at intervals of about 3-10 days until the patient exhibits a therapeutic
    effect.

                                                                    1 12
<removed-date>
                                            12B1 tumor sup   B16 tumor sup   4T1 tumor sup
                                                   12.48%           14.03%         12.59%
<removed-apn>
                                                                                             No emTh-1 sup
                                    FoxP3          0.72%             0.71%         0.63%
                                                                                             emTh-1 sup
                                                                 CD4
                                                             FIG. 1A
                               18           No emTh-1 sup
                                            emTh-1 sup
                               16
                               14
                               12
              % FoxP3+ cells
                               10
                               8
                               6
                               4
                               2
                               0
                                             12B1 sup            4T1 sup           B16 sup
                                                           FIG. 1B

                                                                                      2 12
<removed-date>
                                                           0.8%              0.5%
                                                                                     No TGFß
<removed-apn>
                                                           99.1%             93.3%
                                                       83.2%                 82.1%
              FoxP3
                                                                                     TGFß
                                                       16.7%                                                           FoxP3
                                                                             15.5%
                                                       25.4%                                                          No TGFß
                                                                            23.6%
                                                                                                                      TGFß
                                                                                     TGFß +
                                                                                     emTh-1 sup                       TGFß + Th-1 sup
                                                       74.6%                 74.5%
                                             CD4                   CD25                                          FIG. 2B
                                                     FIG. 2A
                                                                                             7.4%     1.3%   2.6%        4.1%
                                           100
              % of CD4+CD25+FoxP3- cells
                                            90                                                                                  No TGFß
                                            80
                                            70                                                       10.7%              48.6%
                                            60
                                            50                                               56.9%    3.4%   13.1%      39.5%
                                            40
                                                                                                                                TGFß
                                            30                                       FoxP3
                                            20
                                                                                                      4.6%              28.0%
                                            10
                                             0                                               4.6%    13.9%   6.6%       13.6%
                                                 No TGFß          TGFß    TGFß +
                                                                          emTh-1                                                TGFß +
                                                                                                                                emTh-1 sup
                                                     FIG. 2C                                         69.3%              34.8%
                                                                                             Tbet            GATA-3
                                                                                                     FIG. 2D

                                                3 12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                         no TGFß
                                          30             TGFß
                                                         TGFß + emTh-1 sup 12%
                                          25
              % of FoxP3 positive cells
                                                         TGFß + emTh-1 sup 25%
                                                         TGFß + emTh-1 sup 50%
                                          20             TGFß + emTh-1 sup 75%
                                                         TGFß + emTh-1 sup 100%
                                          15
                                          10
                                           5
                                           0
                                               FIG. 2E

                                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                O.D. 450nm
                                0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.8
                      CD25-
                                                                                                4 12
                     CD25-
                 +GFP+iTreg
FIG. 2F
                      CD25-
      +[+GFP+iTreg]emTh-1 sup

                                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                               O.D. 450nm
                               0   0.2   0.4      0.6   0.8   1.0   12   1.4
                      CD25-
                      CD25-                                                                5 12
            +untreated lTreg
FIG. 2G
                      CD25-
          +[lTreg]emTh-1 sup

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                O.D. 450nm
                               0   0.1    0.2    0.3   0.4   0.5   06
                       CD25-
                      CD25-
            +untreated nTreg
FIG. 4B                                                                                                         24h
                      CD25-
           +[nreg]emTh-1 sup
                                           O.D. 450nm
                               0.2                         1.2
                                 0       0.4   0.6   0.8     1     1.4             FoxP3                        48h
            Untreated CD25-
                                                                         FIG. 4A
            Untreated CD25-
                     + nTreg                                                                                    72h
FIG. 4C
          [CD25-]emTh-1 sup
                    + nTreg
                                                IFN-<U+03B3> (pg/ml)
                                          800
                                          700
                                          600
                                          500
                                          400
                                          300
                                          200
                                          100
                                            0
                                                                                           nTreg
                     Untreated CD25-
                                                                                           nTreg + emTh-1 sup
                     Untreated CD25-
                              + nTreg
                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>
                    [CD25-]emTh-1 sup
          FIG. 4D
                              + nTreg
                                                                                                                      <removed-date>
                                                           7 12

                                        8 12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                   CD25-              CD25-               CD25-
                                 + untreated Treg   + [Treg]emTh-1 sup
                       27.68%            68.58%               46.81%
                  47.34%           9.29%                33.94%
                                0.85%                3.06%
              12.98%
                                FIG. 4E
              Untreated CD25-   Untreated CD25-     [CD25-]emTh-1 sup
                                     + Treg              + Treg
                       27.68%            61.04%               31.61%
                  47.34%            1.3%                 45.99%
              12.98%            1.34%                 6.71%
                                FIG. 4F

                                                             9 12
<removed-date>                      100
                                            Control
              Percent Survival
                                            CRCL
                                            emTh-1
                                 50         emTh-1+CRCL
<removed-apn>                        0
                                       0         10           20          30        40
                                                             Days
                                           FIG. 5A
                                 100
              Percent Survival
                                             Control
                                             emTh-1                  NS
                                             emTh-1+CRCL
                                 50
                                                                     NS
                                  0
                                       0          10            20             30   40
                                                             Days
                                           FIG. 5B
                                 100
                                            Control
              Percent Survival
                                            Control +
                                            anti-asialoGM
                                 50
                                            emTh-1+CRCL
                                                                                         NS
                                            emTh-1+CRCL+
                                            anti-asialoGM1
                                  0
                                       0         10           20          30        40
                                                             Days
                                           FIG. 5C

                                                 10 12
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 100                           Control
                                                               emTh1 + B16 CRCL
              Percent Survival
                                 50
                                  0
                                       0   10      20     30             40
                                                  Days
                                                FIG. 5D

                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                                 Control                                                               CRCL + emTh-1
                   5000                                                                          5000
                   4000                                                                          4000
A20 tumor volume                                                              A20 tumor volume
                   3000                                                                          3000
                   2000                                                                          2000
     (mm3)         1000                                                            (mm3)         1000
                           0                                                                         0
                               9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35                                   9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35
                                                  Days                                                                     Days
                                           FIG. 6A                                                                   FIG. 6B
                                                                                                                                                        11 12
                                                    Control                                                            CRCL + emTh-1
                           5000                                                                    5000
                           4000                                                                    4000
        A20 tumor volume                                                        A20 tumor volume
                           3000                                                                    3000
                           2000                                                                    2000
             (mm3)         1000                                                      (mm3)         1000
                               0                                                                      0
                                   9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35                               9 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35
                                                     Days                                                                   Days
                                               FIG. 6C                                                                FIG. 6D

                                                                                                             <removed-apn>                               <removed-date>
                               60
                                         B16
                               50
                                         4T1
                               40
                                                                                               1.2
                               30
                                                                                               1.0
                               20
              % cytotoxicity
                                                                                               0.8
                               10
                                                                                  O.D. 450nm   0.6
                                0
                                         + Control T            + T [emTh-1]                   0.4
                                                                                               0.2
                                               FIG. 7A
                                                                                                0                                                               12 12
                                    No emTh-1 cells              + emTh-1 cells
                                                                                                     CD25-
                                               36.5%                      1.5%                                           CD25-               CD25-
                                                                                                               +[Treg]untreated   +[Treg]emTh-1 sup
Thy 1.2-APC
                                                                                                             FIG. 7C
                                                  GFP (FoxP3)
                                               FIG. 7B

