                                       ABSTRACT
        The microfluidic perfusion device includes a chamber that contains and cultures
cells therein, a porous membrane that is reversibly attached onto the chamber and a
perfusion layer that includes at least one channel with an inlet and an outlet and a fluid
opening therebetween. The chamber has a chamber opening. The porous membrane
covers the chamber opening. The chamber, the membrane, and the perfusion layer
form a multilayer vessel. The fluid opening is positioned to matches the position of the
chamber opening with the membrane sandwiched therebetween. Perfusion fluid
infused from the inlet during use can flow from the fluid opening into the chamber
through the porous membrane such that the shear stress of the perfusion fluid entering
the chamber can be minimized.
                                            32

                 1/19
     100
                           101
103(1)        104         103(2)
  106
  107                     102
  108
     109
         110 112      105
               FIG. 1

                                              TITLE
              Microfluidic perfusion device, system and fabrication method thereof
 5
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a microfluidic cell perfusion culture device.
10
                                         BACKGROUND
   In vitro cell culture is an efficient and indispensable tool for applications in tissue
   engineering, basic biological research, and drug development. Developing an ideal cell
15 model in vitro is dependent on mimicking key elements of the biological characteristics
   and physiological environment of the organ. Microfluidic perfusion devices have
   emerged as a promising platform that can mimic the complex biochemical and
   continuous dynamic tissue-relevant microenvironment, where the cells are trapped and
   constrained into microwells and perfused by the solution conveyed by fluidic channels.
20
   New microfluidic perfusion devices and systems that provide a flexible, robust, and us
   er-friendly way for cell seeding and analysis will assist in advancing technological
   needs and solving technological problems.
25
                                                 1

                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   One example embodiment includes a chamber that contains and cultures cells therein,
   a porous membrane that is reversibly attached onto the chamber and a perfusion layer
 5 that contains at least one channel with an inlet and an outlet and a fluid opening
   therebetween. The chamber has a chamber opening. The porous membrane covers
   the chamber opening. The chamber, the membrane, and the perfusion layer form a
   multilayer vessel. The fluid opening is positioned to matches the position of the
   chamber opening with the membrane sandwiched therebetween. Perfusion fluid
10 infused from the inlet during use can flow from the fluid opening into the chamber
   through the porous membrane such that the shear stress of the perfusion fluid entering
   the chamber can be minimized.
   One example embodiment provides a method of culturing cells including introducing
15 cells into a cell culture chamber and perfusing the cells with a fluid through a porous
   membrane at a shear force lower than 0.03pa.
   One example embodiment provides a method of fabricating a microwells layer as the
   chamber for a microfluidic perfusion device. The method includes milling a polymethyl
20 methacrylate (PMMA) master with a matrix of microwells by a V-shape ball end milling
   cutter, introducing a polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) prepolymer into the PMMA master
   to yield a PDMS master, curing the PDMS master at 80     0C  for 60 minutes, peeling the
   PDMS master off from the PMMA master after incubation, spin-coating a second
   PDMS prepolymer onto the PDMS master, inverting the PDMS master on a support
25 and standing for 60 minutes, curing and aging the PDMS master at 200          0C for 120
   minutes, casting a third PDMS prepolymer into the PDMS master to mold a PDMS
   microwells layer and curing the PDMS microwells layer at 80 OC for 60 minutes to get a
   microwells layer.
30 Other example embodiments are discussed herein.
                                              2

                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Figure 1 illustrates a cross sectional view of a microfluidic perfusion device in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
 5
   Figure 2 illustrates an expanded view of a microfluidic perfusion device in accordance
   with an example embodiment.
   Figure 3 illustrates a top view of multilayer chips in accordance with an example
10 embodiment.
   Figure 4 illustrates a schematic drawing of an automated fluid perfusion system in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
15 Figure 5 illustrates a method of fabricating a microwells layer in accordance with an
   example embodiment.
   Figure 6A illustrates a finite element method (FEM) model geometry of a microwell with
   a microporous membrane in accordance with an example embodiment.
20
   Figure 6B illustrates a finite element method (FEM) model geometry of a microwell
   without a microporous membrane in accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 7A illustrates an assembled microfluidic perfusion device with a spring
25 deflection in accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 7B illustrates a graph of fluorescence intensity, leak pressure and fluidic
   channel height sagging ratio in accordance with an example embodiment.
30 Figure 7C illustrates an image of a fluidic channel filled with a solution of fluorescent
   dye in accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 7D illustrates a graph of fluorescence intensity in a microfluidic channel in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
                                               3

   Figure 8A illustrates a microwells male mold in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
 5 Figure 8B illustrates a second microwells male mold in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
   Figure 8C illustrates a mirowells layer in accordance with an example embodiment.
10 Figure 8D illustrates a sectional view of a microwells layer in accordance with an
   example embodiment.
   Figure 9 illustrates a graph of fluidic dynamic for FEM models in accordance with an
   example embodiment.
15
   Figure 10 illustrates a graph of oxygen concentration for FEM models in accordance
   with an example embodiment.
   Figure 11 A illustrates a graph of oxygen concentration profiles near an inlet of a fluidic
20 channel in accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 11 B illustrates a graph of oxygen concentration profiles near an outlet of a
   fluidic channel in accordance with an example embodiment.
25 Figure 12A illustrate optical images of spheroids formed in three 3D experimental
   models in accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 12B illustrates a graph of an average cell spheroid diameter in accordance with
   an example embodiment.
30
   Figure 12C illustrates viability of cells cultured in four experimental models in
   accordance with an example embodiment.
                                                4

   Figure 13A illustrates a graph of hepatocytes polarization in accordance with an
   example embodiment.
   Figure 13B illustrates a graph of multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2) volume ratio in
 5 accordance with an example embodiment.
   Figure 13C illustrates a graph of albumin synthesis rate in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
10 Figure 13D illustrates a graph of urea production in accordance with an example
   embodiment.
                                               5

                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Example embodiments relate to microfluidic perfusion devices for culturing cells
   therein with novel structure designs and improved performances, such as high mass
 5 transfer and low wall shear stress inside the culture chambers to allow cells to grow in
   an improved environment.
   Three-dimensional (3D) cell culture exhibits more physiologically relevant architecture
   than two-dimensional (2D) monolayer culture. As one example embodiment for the 3D
10 cell culture, hepatocyte spheroids are grown with scaffold-free culture as cellular
   aggregates. This is advantageous in developing a tissue-like structure, such as 3D
   communication       networks, microvilli-lined bile canaliculus-like channels, cuboidal
   hepatocyte morphology, and resembling the natural extracellular matrix (ECM) in
   tissues which generate and organize their own 3D ECM.
15
   Micromolding technique based on concave microwells is capable of generating
   uniform-sized hepatocyte spheroids. The cells can be trapped and constrained into
   microwells for individual culture regions and direct in situ observation. But the formed
   hepatocyte spheroids lack a vascular network leading to mass transfer limitations in
20 terms of oxygen/nutrients supply and accumulation of cell metabolism products within
   spheroids especially under static conditions, which can potentially impair cell division,
   viability, function, and can easily cause necrotic cell death inside the core of the large
   spheroids.
25 Microfluidic perfusion system can mimic biochemical and continuous dynamic tissue
   relevant microenvironment and maximize mass transfer during hepatocyte spheroids
   culture. However, continuous solution exchange can generate turbulence in the
   concave microwells, and the spheroids may displace and escape from the open
   microwells while spheroids inside microwells are connected with fluidic channels.
30 Besides, hepatocytes are sensitive to shear stress, e.g., viability of hepatocyte cultures
   under high shear stress is lower than that of static controls, and hepatocyte function is
   significantly inhibited when the wall shear stress is higher than 0.03pa. It is useful to
   balance a high mass transfer and a low wall shear stress inside the microwells.
                                                 6

   Moreover, loading of cells into a microfluidic device with narrow fluid channels is a
   delicate task, especially for cells such as hepatocytes that are sensitive to
   hydrodynamic stresses and that a cell density on a substrate needs to be reached to
   form hepatocyte spheroids. In addition, the extraction and analysis of hepatocyte
 5 spheroids in a sealed chip is difficult, too.
   Example embodiments solve these problems by presenting a sandwich-format
   microfluidic perfusion device for spheroid-based 3D cell culture. The microfluidic
   perfusion device adopts a reversible sealed chip format which can be applied to
10 standard laboratory procedures for loading cells on the substrate and can later be
   disassembled for routine analysis of the cells.
   In one embodiment for example, a microfluidic perfusion device that traps and
   perfuses cell spheroids for long-term culture includes a chamber, a porous membrane
15 and a perfusion layer. The chamber contains and cultures cells therein and has a
   chamber opening. The porous membrane is reversibly attached onto the chamber and
   covers the opening. The perfusion layer includes at least one channel with an inlet and
   an outlet and a fluid opening therebetween. The chamber, the membrane, and the
   perfusion layer form a multilayer vessel. The fluid opening is positioned to matches the
20 position of the chamber opening with the membrane sandwiched therebetween.
   Perfusion fluid infused from the inlet during use can flow from the fluid opening into the
   chamber through the porous membrane such that the shear stress of the perfusion
   fluid entering the chamber can be minimized.
25 In an example embodiment, the chamber includes a microwells array for culturing the
   cells therein, with each microwell opening being a chamber opening. The fluid opening
   of the perfusion layer is positioned to match the microwells array and the membrane
   covers the microwell openings. The channel of the perfusion layer is open, elongated
   and serpetining across the perfusion layer to form one fluid opening. The position of
30 the channel coinciding with the microwells of the microwells array such that perfusion
   fluid can enter therethrough into the microwell.
   In an example embodiment, the microfluidic perfusion device further includes a
   housing around the multilayer vessel. The housing includes a lid disposed next to the
                                                 7

   chamber, a base disposed next to the perfusion layer, and a plurality of fasteners and
   springs that connect the lid and the base on a plurality of sides. An independent spring
   loading force is created at each spring to clamp the multilayer vessel evenly and allow
   fluid flow between the chamber and the perfusion layer without leakage.
 5
   By way of example, the microfluidic perfusion device can be assembled and
   disassembled in a simple and flexible manner which allows cell seeding and cell
   spheroid analysis to be compatible with conventional procedure, and thus facilitate the
   procedures of loading and observation of the cells.
10
   Example embodiments include a method of culturing cells. The method includes
   introducing cells into a cell culture chamber and perfusing the cells with a fluid through
   a porous membrane at a shear force lower than 0.03pa.
15 In an embodiment for example, the cells are hepatocyte and are cultured into
   hepatocyte spheroids.
   In an example embodiment, culturing with the microfluidic perfusion device can quickly
   and safely form hepatocyte spheroids with a uniform size and smooth surface. The
20 maximum shear stress at the cell spheroid surface in the microwells with the porous
   membrane are 3-4 orders of magnitude lower compared to the microwells without the
   porous membrane. The method of culturing cells in the microfluidic perfusion device
   shows better maintenance in terms of cell viability, hepatocyte polarity, and liver
   specific function up to 12 days in culture.
25
   Fabrication of concave microwells arrays with a rounded bottom has been a popular
   method for producing uniformly sized and shaped spheroids. Micromilling technology
   provides a robust method for the fabrication, which has the advantages of reproducible,
   rapid and high aspect ratio. However, the high-speed rotation of the milling cutter
30 during milling of the concave microwells can easily cause high levels of friction and
   generate heat during processing, resulting in rough surfaces and deformation at the
   bottom of the microwells.
                                               8

   Example embodiments recognize the problem mentioned above and further include a
   method of fabricating a microwells layer for a microfluidic perfusion device. The
   method includes milling a polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) master with a matrix of
   microwells by a V-shape ball end milling cutter, introducing a polydimethylsiloxane
 5 (PDMS) prepolymer into the PMMA master to yield a PDMS master, curing the PDMS
   master at 80    OC for 60 minutes, peeling the PDMS master off from the PMMA master
   after incubation, spin-coating a second PDMS prepolymer onto the PDMS master,
   inverting the PDMS master on a support and standing for 60 minutes, curing and aging
   the PDMS master at 200 'C for 120 minutes, casting a third PDMS prepolymer into the
10 PDMS master to mold a PDMS microwells layer and curing the PDMS microwells layer
   at 80 OC   for 60 minutes to get a microwells layer.
   After utilizing the fabrication method, which is a secondary PDMS-coated technique,
   the surface of the microwell male mold becomes very smooth, and the uncured PDMS
15 reflows to a circular structure at the top of the microwell male mold under gravity, and
   thus repairs the conventional problem of collapse deformation. Eventually, a concave
   microwell layer with perfect rounded bottom is yielded.
   Figure 1 illustrates a cross sectional view of a microfluidic perfusion device 100 in
20 accordance with an example embodiment. The microfluidic perfusion device includes a
   bracket 101, a lid 102 with springs 103(1) - (2), multilayer chips 104 that trap and
   perfuse a cell spheroid 105, and a base 111 that houses a cover glass 112.
   The multilayer chips 104 include a fluidic channel layer 106 with a fluidic channel 107,
25 a microporous membrane 108 and a microwells layer 109 with a microwells array 110.
   The multilayer chips 104 is sealed between the lid 102 and the base 111 by a loading
   force provided by the springs 103 (1) - (2).
   Figure 2 illustrates an expanded view of a microfluidic perfusion device 200 in
30 accordance with an example embodiment. The microfluidic perfusion device 200
   includes a bracket 201, a lid 202, multilayer chips 203 that include a fluidic channel
   layer 204, a microporous membrane 205 and a microwells layer 206, and a base 207.
                                                 9

   The bracket 201 and the lid 202 are made of polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA)
    materials. The bracket 201 is 4mm thick and the lid 202 is 2mm thick. The lid 201
    includes three springs 209 (1) - (3) and three screws 210 (1) - (3). The springs 209 (1)
   - (3) and the screws 210 (1) - (3) can be made of grade 304 stainless steel. The
 5 bracket 201 and the lid 202 are concentric assembled by the springs 209 (1) - (3) led
   by the screws 210 (1) - (3).
   The bracket 201 has three holes 208 (1) - (3) with triangular distribution to house the
   screws 210 (1) - (3). The inside diameter of the holes 208(1) - (3) in the bracket is set
10 between the outer diameter of the screws 210 (1) - (3) and the outer diameter of the
   springs 209 (1) - (3) to ensure smooth sliding of the bracket 201 toward the lid 202
   and provide a uniform spring-loaded force to the surface of the lid 202.
   The lid 202 includes two juxtaposed tubes 219 - 220 inserted in one side. One of the
15 tubes 219 - 220 is an inlet tube and the other is an outlet tube. The material of the
   tubes 219 - 220 can be steel. For providing an adequate gas environment on the
   surface of the microporous membrane 205 and the microwells layer 206, four
    rectangular vent holes 211 are designed on the lid 202.
20 The multilayer chips 203 have a sandwich structure in which the fluid channel layer
   204 is in the upper part, the microporous membrane 205 is in the middle part and the
    microwells layer 206 is in the lower part. The fluid channel layer 204 includes fluid
   channels 212 to transport a solution for cell perfusion. The microwells layer 206
    includes a microwells array 213 that contains cell spheroids for culture.
25
   The microporous membrane 205 can be a 24 mm transwell inserts membrane with 3
    10 pm pore size and a porosity of 2x10 6 pores/cm 2. The material of the microporous
    membrane 205 is transparent, such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET), which
   permits real-time observations of the cell spheroid morphology during the perfusion
30 culture.
   The base 207 is an 8mm thick disk with a diameter of 60 mm made of a transparent
    material such as polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA). The base 207 has a 6mm deep
   groove 217 with a diameter of 30mm in the center, and a 1 mm deep opening 218 with
                                                10

   a diameter of 24mm under the groove 217. The opening 218 holds a 1mm thick cover
   glass 216 with a diameter of 26mm to balance the extrusion pressure and enhance
   analytical observation.
 5 The base 207 further includes three standoffs 214 (1) - (3) on the top side. The
   standoffs 214 (1) - (3) are aligned with thumb screws 215 (1) - (3) in the bracket 201
   to fix the base 207 with the bracket 201, and thus reversibly seal the microfluidic chips
   203 between the lid 202 and the base 207. The standoffs 214 (1) - (3) can be round
   aluminum standoffs. The standoffs 214 (1) - (3) make it possible to flexibly change the
10 loading force of the spring 209 (1) - (3) for sealing different thicknesses of multilayer
   chips 203 by replacing different heights of standoffs.
   Figure 3 illustrates a top view of multilayer chips in accordance with an example
   embodiment. The multilayer chips 300 include a fluidic channel 303 that is stacked on
15 a microwells array 304 and aligns with the rows of the microwells array 304. The fluidic
   channel 303 has an inlet 301 to receive a perfusing solution and an outlet 302 to
   exhaust the solution.
   Figure 4 illustrates a schematic drawing of an automated fluid perfusion system in
20 accordance with an example embodiment. The automated fluid perfusion system 400
   includes a first container 410, a peristaltic pump 420, a debubbler 430, a microfluidic
   perfusion device 440, and a second container 450.
   The first container 410 includes a medium 411 for cell perfusion. The peristaltic pump
25 420 connects to the first container 410 to pump the medium 411 in the first container
   410 to the debubbler. The debubbler 430 connects to the peristaltic pump to receive
   the medium 411 and to trap the bubbles in the medium 411. The microfluidic perfusion
   device 440 connects to the debubbler 430 to receive the medium 411 that is
   debubbled and use the medium 411 to perfuse cell spheroids. The second container
30 450 connects to the microfluidic perfusion device 440 to receive and contain the
   medium 411 from the microfluidic perfusion device after cell perfusion.
   In one example embodiment, the microfluidic perfusion device 440 includes multilayer
   chips 441 that trap and perfuse the cell spheroids, a lid 442 with a plurality of springs
                                                11

   (not shown) that provide a loading force to seal the multilayer chips 411, a base 443
   that contains the multilayer chips 441, and a bracket 444 that is connected to the lid
   442 and the base 443 to seal the multilayer chips 441 between the lid 442 and base
   443 and keep a spring deflection.
 5
   By way of example, electronic components of the automated fluid perfusion system
   400 can utilize a water-proof design and wireless control manner, by which the system
   could be directly placed into an incubator for a long time under a high humidity
   environment, and thus improve system flexibility and facilitate the experimental
10 operation.
   Example embodiments include a fabrication method of a fluidic layer and a microwells
   layer included in multilayer chips.
15 In one embodiment for example, initial templates of the fluidic layer are designed using
   AutoCAD and produced via standard soft lithography to create a serpentine fluidic
   channel. The fluidic channel is 2000pm wide and 200pm high. Then, a 200pm thick
   photoresist is spin-coated onto a silicon wafer to obtain a fluidic male mold. A well
   mixed PDMS prepolymer [Sylgard 184 A and B (10:1, w/w); Dow Corning] is poured
20 onto the fluidic male mold, placed on a petri dish to yield a 2mm thick layer, and cured
   at 850C for 60 minutes. Then, the cured layer is peeled off from the fluidic male mold
   and cut into a 2mm thick circular fluidic layer with a diameter of 24mm. Finally, two
   holes are punched for an inlet and an outlet of the fluidic channel.
25 Figure 5 illustrates a method of fabricating a microwells layer in accordance with an
   example embodiment.
   By    way    of   example,    fabrication of   the    microwells    layer  contains  two
   polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) molding processes. The first involves constructing a
30 PDMS master from a PMMA concave microwell arrays master, while the second
   involves the construction of the final PDMS replica directly from the PDMS master.
   The block 510 states milling a PMMA master with a microwells array. For example, the
   microwells array has 1080 microwells uniformly arranged in six rows of a rectangular
                                              12

   matrix that matched a fluidic channel. A V-shape ball end milling cutter is used in a
   computer-numerically-controlled (CNC) milling machine.
   The block 520 states Introducing a polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) prepolymer into the
 5 PMMA master to yield a PDMS master. For example, a well-mixed PDMS prepolymer
   [Sylgard 184 A and B (5:1, w/w)] is introduced into the PMMA master on a petri dish to
   yield a 2mm thick PDMS master.
   The block 530 states curing the PDMS master at 80     OC for 60 minutes. The block 540
10 states peeling the PDMS master off from the PMMA master after incubation. The
   surface of the PDMS master is rough and formed a depression at the top because the
   high-speed rotation of the milling cutter causes friction and generate heat during
   processing of the PMMA master. This may result in a rough surface or even melting in
   the bottom of the microwells. To solve this problem, a secondary PDMS-coated
15 technique is introduced.
   The block 550 states spin-coating a second PDMS prepolymer onto the PDMS master.
   For example, a PDMS prepolymer [Sylgard 184 A and B (5 : 1, w/w)] is spin-coated
   onto the PDMS master to obtain a thin PDMS layer. The PDMS coated master is then
20 inverted onto a support, and stand for 60 min to allow the PDMS reflow to form an arc
   shape under gravity, as stated in block 560.
   The block 570 states curing and aging the PDMS master at 100-250 OC for 110
   minutes. The block 580 states casting a third PDMS prepolymer into the PDMS master
25 to mold a PDMS microwells layer. For example, a replica molding is performed by
   casting a PDMS prepolymer [Sylgard 184 A and B (10 : 1, w/w)] and curing it at     8 0 2C
   for 60 minutes. Finally, a PDMS concave microwell layer with a smooth surface copied
   from the initial PMMA concave microwells master is obtained.
30 By way of example, a microfluidic perfusion device shows an improved mechanical
   behavior that can be evaluated by quality of sealing and fluid channel deformation. The
   spring-loaded force is reproducible and depends only on a spring deflection distance d.
   The evaluation of the microfluidic perfusion device is done with d at 1- 5mm with an
   interval of 1 mm. d is set by placing standoffs of known height on the base. The width
                                              13

   of the fluid channel is set to be 2000pm and height of the fluid channel is 200pm. The
   thickness of the fluidic layer is 2mm and the thickness of the microwells layer is 1mm.
   By way of example, the quality of sealing produced by a lid with springs is measured
 5 by a maximal internal pressure that the sealed multilayer chips can withstand without
   leaking. To quantify this maximal internal pressure, the microfluidic perfusion device is
   assembled, and the sealed multilayer chips are filled with red colored water. An inlet
   and an outlet are connected to a same regulated source of compressed air, and the
   pressure is gradually increased until the multilayer chips leaked.
10
   By way of example, to evaluate deformation of fluidic channels induced by mechanical
   force pressed on the fluidic channel layer, a microwells layer in multilayer chip is
   replaced with a 1mm thick unstructured PDMS layer, excluding the interference of
   fluorescence in the microwells on the fluorescence intensity in the fluidic channels. A
15 solution of fluorescein sodium is filled into the fluidic channels. The fluorescence
   intensity is measured by an inverted fluorescence microscope.
   By way of example, firstly, the fluorescence intensities of six fluidic channels with
   depths of 50pm, 100pm, 200pm, 300pm, 400pm, and 500pm are measured for
20 evaluating the linear relationship between fluorescence intensity and the height of the
   fluidic channel. Secondly, a fluidic layer with a fluidic channel height of 200pm is
   bonded to a cover glass to provide a reference with no deformation. The fluidic
   channels are filled with fluorescein sodium solution. Fluorescence is measured without
   applying a spring-loaded force on the fluidic layer. Finally, the second step is repeated
25 with an assembled microfluidic perfusion device under different spring-loaded forces.
   By way of example, a finite element method (FEM) is used to analyze stream lines,
   shear stress, and oxygen concentrations at a hepatocyte spheroid surface, to optimize
   microwell size and flow rate. A steady-state Navier-Stokes and convection-diffusion
30 equations are solved numerically.
   Figure 6A illustrates a finite element method (FEM) model geometry of a microwell with
   a microporous membrane in accordance with an example embodiment. Figure 6B
                                               14

   illustrates a finite element method (FEM) model geometry of a microwell without a
   microporous membrane in accordance with an example embodiment.
   In Figure 6A and Figure 6B, a single microwell geometry 600A and 600B of a
 5 microwells array include a fluidic channel layer with a PDMS top 601 and a fluidic
   channel 604, a microwell 603 containing a cell spheroid 605 with a diameter of 200pm.
   The height of the fluidic channel 604 is 200pm. The height of the PDMS top 601 is
   denoted as L, and the depth of the microwell 603 is denoted as Dw. The microwell
   geometry 600A further includes a microporous membrane 602.
10
   Assume the fluid in the fluidic channel 604 is an incompressible, isothermal, Newtonian
   fluid with a fluid density 1000 kg/m 3 and viscosity 0.001 Pa-s and no-slip at the walls.
   The fluidic channel 604 and the microwell 603 are developed as a parametric model
   and the effect of changes in a flow rate denoted as Q on the flow parameters of the
15 spheroid surface are analyzed. The diameter of the cell spheroid is fixed at 200um for
   avoiding severe oxygen limitation.
   The governing equations for the model are:
                                 p(u -V)u =-Vp +V                    2u
20
                                V  (-DV          R + J        -u    -V
   where u denotes a fluid velocity, c is an oxygen concentration, R is an oxygen reaction
   rate of the cell spheroid 605, J is an inward oxygen flux through the PDMS top 601,
   and V is the standard del operator. Oxygen consumption rate R within the cell spheroid
25 605 is modeled by Michaelis-Menten type kinetics, as described in the following
   equation:
                                                        1C
                                      R = K .0, + cC Sp   erid s
30          where Vmax,  02 is a maximum consumption rate, c is an oxygen concentration,
   Km,02   is a Michaelis-Menten Constant, and   Sspheroids    is surface area of the cell spheroid
   605.
                                               15

   The fluidic channel layer is made of a gas permeable elastomer, such as PDMS, and is
   exposed to the atmosphere. Therefore, an inward oxygen flux J through the PDMS top
   601 is given by the following equation:
                                    j  =  PDMS  1  _   o   I
 5
                                           L         KHO,
   where p02 is an ambient oxygen partial pressure, KH,O2 is Henry's constant for oxygen
   at 37    C,  co2 is an oxygen concentration at the liquid-PDMS interface,   PPDMS     is an
   oxygen permeability in the PDMS top 601, and L is the thickness of the PDMS top 601.
10
   Example embodiment include a method of cell culture and spheroid formation in a
   microfluidic perfusion device.
   By way of example, a human hepatoma cell line, HepG2/C3A, is maintained in
15 minimum essential medium (MEM), supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS),
   penicillin-streptomycin 100U/mL, and 1.0mM sodium pyruvate at 37 2C with 5% C02.
   The cells are grown in 25cm 2 plastic flasks and used between passages 10-20 in all
   experiments.
20 Before cell seeding in a microwells layer, the inner surface of the microwells is coated
   with 5% Pluronic F127 to prevent cell adhesion. The HepG2/C3A cells are treated with
   trypsin-EDTA solution for 3 minutes to harvest cells, centrifuged, and re-suspended in
   fresh medium at a density of 5x104 cells/ml. After that, the microwells layer is filled up
   with cell suspensions, and the cells are gradually settled to the bottom of the
25 microwells by gravity. After 30minutes, the non-trapped cells are removed using a
   micropipette. A microporous membrane such as a transwell insert, a fluidic channel
   layer with a fluidic channel, and a lid connected with a bracket are then installed
   successively on a base to assemble the microfluidic perfusion device. Finally, an
   automated fluid perfusion system is applied to connect the microfluidic perfusion
30 device for continuous perfusion culture in a 37 LC cell culture incubator. The trapped
   cells self-aggregated and invariably formed into uniformly sized spheroids in each
   microwell.
                                               16

   By way of example, in situ assessment of cell viability is implemented by a Live/Dead
   assay kit. The microwells are filled with staining solution containing 2.5mM calcein-AM
   and 3mM EthD-1        in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 30 minutes at room
   temperature, and then rinsed with PBS. Stained cell spheroids are imaged with an
 5 inverted fluorescent microscope. To quantitative assessment of cell viability, the cell
   spheroids are trypsinized and assessed by trypan blue exclusion. The individual white
   cells (viable) and blue cells (non-viable) are counted by a Luna Automated Cell
   Counter.
10 By way of example, to define the impact of different culture models on restoration of
   hepatocyte polarity, hepatocyte spheroids are immunostained using antibodies against
   hepatocyte cell surface proteins, tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), and
   bile canalicular transporter multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2). The cell spheroids
   are fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde for 20 minutes and then permeabilized with 0.3%
15 Triton X-100 in PBS for 15 minutes at room temperature. After being washed three
   times with PBS buffer, the cell spheroids are blocked with 5% bovine serum albumin
   (BSA) in PBS at room temperature for 30 minutes. After nonspecific binding blocking,
   the cell spheroids are incubated with a directly conjugated ZO-1 mouse monoclonal
   antibody-Alexa Fluor 488 for 1 hour at 37 LC. After rinses with PBS, the cell spheroids
20 are incubated with mouse monoclonal anti-MRP2 antibody for 1 hour at 37 2C and then
   with polyclonal goat secondary antibodies Alexa Fluor 555 anti-mouse IgG2a for 3
   hours at room temperature. Cell nuclei are then stained with Hoechst 33342 for 20
   minutes at room temperature. Fluorescence is imaged with a laser scanning confocal
   microscope.
25
   By way of example, to quantify the degree of MRP2 expression and MRP2 localization
   in canalicular space (delineated by ZO-1) in the cell spheroids, a 3D image stack of
   half cell spheroid diameter in depth with a plane distance of 0.8pm is automatically
   acquired for each cell spheroid assembling data of about one half of the entire
30 spheroid volume, using Leica Application Suite software. 3D reconstructions are
   imported into the 3D Image Analysis module to analyze multiple image channels at a
   time including a half-spheroid volume    (Vspheroid), MRP2 positive expression total volume
   (Vtotai) and a volume of MRP2 localization to the canalicular space (Viocalized). The ratio
   between Vtotai and   Vspheroid is used to quantify the degree of MRP2 expression. The
                                                 17

   ratio between Viocalized and Vtota is used to quantify the degree of localization of MRP2
   in the canalicular space.
   By way of example, to assess the liver-specific functions under different culture
 5 conditions, albumin and urea production are analyzed as key function markers. After
   culturing for 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 days, the medium remaining in the waste medium
   container is collected. The level of albumin production is measured by human albumin
   Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) kit. Urea concentration is evaluated by
   using a urea assay kit that utilizes a coupled enzyme reaction and results in a
10 colorimetric product.
   Figure 7A illustrates a microfluidic perfusion device 700A with a spring deflection in
   accordance with an example embodiment. The microfluidic perfusion device 700A
   reversibly clamps a sandwich-format multilayer chips to form a liquid-tight seal by
15 using a spring-loaded force. The spring-loaded force is generated by biasing a plurality
   of springs with a spring deflection d. Leakage tests and channel deformation analysis
   are performed to evaluate the mechanical performance of the microfluidic perfusion
   device.
20 Figure 7B illustrates a graph 700B of fluorescence intensity, leak pressure and fluidic
   channel height sagging ratio in accordance with an example embodiment. Figure 7B
   inset shows that fluorescence intensity has a good linearity (R2 = 0.993, > 0.99) with
   fluid channel heights which are 50pm, 100pm, 200pm, 300pm, 400pm, 500pm.
   Therefore, measurement of fluorescence intensity can indirectly characterize the
25 height of the microfluidic channel.
   As shown in Figure 7B, the leak pressure 701 and fluidic channel sagging ratio 702
   increase with the spring deflection d. When spring deflection d increased from 4mm to
   5mm, the channel height sagging ratio 702 increased from 9.1% to 15.7%, increasing
30 by 72.5%, while the chip leak pressure 701 increased from 16.6 kPa to 20.4 kPa, only
   increasing by 22.9%. This is because the channel walls reach the deformation limit in
   the spring deflection of 5mm, resulting in a sharp rise in the channel sagging ratio,
   while the pressure of the channel seal is positively correlated with the spring deflection,
   leading to a slight linear increase in the leak pressure while the distance of spring
                                                18

   deflection increased from 1mm to 5mm. So, a 4mm spring deflection can provide an
   optimal balance between sealability and fluidic channel deformation between a 2mm
   thick fluidic channel layer and a 1mm thick microwell layer.
 5 As shown in Figure 7B, the leak pressure 701 is up to 16kPa by applying a 4mm spring
   deflection, which can provide a flow rate of up to 6 ml/minute for the chip under the
   close pressure. This renders the microfluidic perfusion device suitable for performing
   consistent perfusion with sufficiently high levels of wall shear stress.
10 Figure 7C illustrates an image 700C of a microfluidic channel filled with a solution of
   fluorescent dye in accordance with an example embodiment. Three springs are set
   with an equilateral triangular distribution at the edge of a lid in a microfluidic perfusion
   device to convert the spring-loaded force into a uniform pressure onto multilayer chips.
   The fluidic channel is filled with a solution of fluorescent dye and then imaged and
15 analyzed to evaluate the effect of the applied spring-loaded force on the fluidic channel.
   The spring deflection is set to be 4mm.
   Figure 7D illustrates a graph 700D of fluorescence intensity in a fluidic channel in
   accordance with an example embodiment. The fluorescence intensity at the lines 'A',
20 'B', and 'C' in Figure 7C are plotted in Figure 7D as 703, 704 and 707 respectively. The
   fluorescence intensity in 703, 704 and 707 shows a uniform distribution. For a 2mm
   wide channel, the roof sagging in the middle of the fluidic channel is about 8% of the
   channel height with a 4mm spring deflection.
25 By way of example, a fluidic channel layer is stacked on a microwells layer, so that the
   microwells layer leaves a blank area matching the serpentine fluid channel walls of the
   fluidic channel layer to accommodate the sealing pressure applied by the fluidic
   channel layer. The microwell walls only provide support for a microporous membrane,
   so the geometry of the microwells does not show significant deformation after sealing
30 of multilayer chips.
   In one embodiment for example, micromilling technology is employed to rapidly
   fabricate a master of microwells layer. The size and shape of the microwells can be
   changed by using different milling cutters, and the depth of the microwells can also be
                                                19

   adjusted by the cutter machining depth. PMMA can be used as a master material,
   because it is easy to be process, inexpensive, transparent and smooth that is suitable
   for molding microwell layers with smooth outer surfaces and easy optical observation.
 5 Figure 8A illustrates a microwells male mold 800A in accordance with an example
   embodiment. The microwells male mold 800A has a rough surface and deformation at
   the bottom of microwells that is caused by high-speed rotation of a milling cutter.
   In one embodiment for example, a process is utilized to modify the PDMS male mold, i.
10 e., the PDMS male mold is peeled off from the PMMA master, inverted on a support.
   The uncured PDMS reflows to a circular structure at the top of the PDMS male mold
   under gravity, which repairs the original collapse deformation thereby yielding a
   concave microwell layer with a rounded bottom after the next molding.
15 Figure 8B illustrates a second microwells male mold 800B in accordance with an
   example embodiment. It is shown that the surface of the microwell male mold treated
   with the process above becomes very smooth.
   Figure 8C illustrates a microwells layer 800C in accordance with an example
20 embodiment. The microwells layer 800C has 6 rectangular regions. Each region has a
   dimension of 15mm     x 2 mm with 180 concave microwells, so that the microwells layer
   contains a total of 1080 uniform-sized concave microwells.
   By way of example, a V-shape concave microwell is fabricated using a V-shape ball
25 end milling cutter, and the microwells are designed to be adjacent to each other like a
   honeycomb. This forms stable sloped walls with rounded ridges between two
   microwells and improves cell trapping rate per unit area.
   Figure 8D illustrates a sectional view of a microwells layer 800D in accordance with an
30 example embodiment. Side view along AA cross section line in Figure 8C shows that
   each concave microwell has a V-shape cross section with a round bottom. A rounded
   ridge between two V-shape microwells can effectively minimize a cell loss.
                                               20

   By way of example, processes of a fabrication method of a microwells layer are
   parameterized in automated equipment and minimize manual operations, so that a
   large number of concave microwell male molds can be easily obtained for batch
   production of concave microwells. This method is also applicable in the fabrication of
 5 differently sized and shaped concave microwells to engineer diverse 3D microtissues
   in biomedical and tissue engineering applications.
   Cell spheroids cultured in concave microwells are susceptible to high fluid shear stress.
   Cell survival, morphology, and function can be affected when shear stress exceeds
10 0.03 Pa. The cell spheroids can even be sweep out of the microwells. On the other
   hand, the cell spheroids are extremely sensitive to oxygen concentrations with a high
   metabolic demand. Typical oxygen concentrations in the liver are the order of 0.04
   0.15 mol/m 3 , while 0.021 mol/m 3 is known to inhibit mitosis in hepatocytes.
15 To optimize microwell size and fluid flow conditions, a parametric FEM model with
   different flow rates and microwell depths is constructed to predict the shear stress and
   oxygen concentration at the surface of a hepatocyte spheroid inside a microwell with a
   microporous     membrane.    For     comparison,         a  single   microwell  model   without
   microporous membrane is also built.
20
   Figure 9 illustrates a graph 900A of volume velocity ratio magnitude in a FEM model
   without a membrane and a graph 900B of volume velocity ratio magnitude in a FEM
   model with a membrane in accordance with an example embodiment. The flow rate Q
   is 10pL/min and the microwell depth Dw is 400pm. The graph 900A shows obvious
25 vortices in the open microwell that form a continuous circulating flow at the cell
   spheroid surface. This phenomenon becomes more obvious with the increase of the
   microwell depth.
   As shown in Figure 9, the graph 900B does not show vortices in the microwell with a
30 microporous membrane. In addition, the maximum wall shear stress at the upper cell
   spheroid surface has a range of    1 0 -4- 1 0 -7 Pa in the microwell in graph 900B, which was
   3-4 orders of magnitude lower compared to the open microwell at the same flow rate
   and microwell depth conditions. This implies that the cell spheroids inside the
   microwell with a microporous membrane not only have a very low fluid shear
                                                     21

   environment but also have very low wall shear stress gradients on the upper and lower
   surfaces of the spheroids, leading to a lower lift force being applied on the spheroids,
   Figure 10 illustrates a graph 1000A of oxygen concentration for a FEM model without a
 5 microporous membrane in accordance with an example embodiment and a graph
   1000B of oxygen concentration for a FEM model with a microporous in accordance
   with an example embodiment.
   The graph 1000B shows that the oxygen concentration band in the microwell with a
10 microporous membrane is more uniformly gradient-distributed when compared to the
   microwell without a microporous membrane.
   By way of example, a minimum oxygen concentration Cmin of the medium at the
   spheroid surface of 0.04mol/m 3 is determined to further optimize the flow rate and
15 microwell depth. Below this concentration the cell is functionally compromised. The
   results of two single microwell models revealed that when flow rate is increased from 1
   to 100pL/min, the surface area of cell spheroids with oxygen concentrations higher
   than Cmin threshold increase rapidly, whereas when microwell depth is increased from
   200pm to 400pm, the surface area of cell spheroids with oxygen concentrations higher
20 than Cmin threshold decrease rapidly. This difference became more and more
   remarkable along with increasing microwell depth. Consequently, in microwells with a
   microporous membrane, with the aim of increasing surface area of cell spheroids with
   oxygen concentrations higher than Cmin threshold, the most effective way is to increase
   flow rate and decrease microwell depth.
25
   In one example embodiment, in consideration of economy and feasibility, the flow rate
   is set as lOpL/min. Considering the machining error of microwell depths, the machining
   depth of microwell is set within the range of 200-300pm and the surface area of cell
   spheroids with oxygen concentrations over Cmin threshold will reach 76-84.5% at a flow
30 rate of 1OpL/min.
   Figure 11 A illustrates a graph 1100A of oxygen concentration profiles near an inlet of a
   fluidic channel in accordance with an example embodiment. Figure 11 B illustrates a
   graph 1100B of oxygen concentration profiles near an outlet of a fluidic channel in
                                              22

   accordance with an example embodiment. It is shown that the oxygen supply at the
   flow rate Q of 10pL/minute and 100pL/minute is relatively sufficient in comparison with
   that at the flow rate Q of 1pL/min. The concentration ranges of oxygen supply at the
   flow rate Q of l0pL/minute and 100pL/minute are 0.14-0.21mol/m               3  and 0.17
 5 0.21mol/m 3 , respectively. These results show the feasibility of setting a flow rate as
   10pL/min.
   By way of example, to evaluate the practical effect of a microfluidic perfusion device for
   hepatocyte spheroid perfusion culture, four different experimental             models are
10 established: 3D spheroid cultured within the microfluidic perfusion device at the above
   optimized flow rate of l0pL/min (3D-Hepa SMPD), 3D spheroid cultured within open
   microwell at a perfusion flow rate of 1pL/min (3D-perfusion), 3D spheroid cultured
   within open microwell without flow (3D-static), and 2D cell cultured on a flat chip
   without flow (2D-static). The consumption of culture medium for the 3D-static model
15 and 2D-static model is the same as that of the 3D-Hepa SMPD model, at about
   14.4mL / day. The flow rate of the 3D-perfusion model is set to 1pL/min, because the
   peak of the wall shear stress on the surface of the cell spheroids in the open microwell
   at this flow rate is 0.001 -0.004Pa, where the cell loss rate can be reduced to less than
   10% during up to 12 days of perfusion culture (not shown).
20
   Figure 12A illustrate optical images 1200A of spheroids formed               in three 3D
   experimental models in accordance with an example embodiment. The surface profiles
   of spheroids at 12 days are plotted by red outline. The outlines in images 1200A show
   that the surface of spheroid cultured in 3D-Hepa SMPD model is significantly smoother
25 than others.
   Figure 12B illustrates a graph 1200B of an average cell spheroid diameter in
   accordance with an example embodiment. Data represents the means standard
   deviation of 30 independent experiments. As shown in graph 1200B, the average
30 spheroid diameter gradually increases over 12 days from 79-84pm to 200-221 pm in all
   three 3D experimental models. However, the spheroid diameter in the 3D-Hepa SMPD
   model is significantly smaller than that in 3D-static and 3D-perfusion models between
   days 4 and 12, and acquires a smoother spheroid surface which is particularly evident
   on the 12th day. This indicates that sufficient perfusion flow rate conditions can
                                               23

   promote the formation of cell-cell tight junctions, inducing cell aggregation to form
   spheroids, whereas in a static or low-flow perfusion culture conditions, the cell
   spheroids will gradually become irregular and start to disaggregate with the extension
   of incubation time.
 5
   Figure 12C illustrates a graph 1200C of viability of cells cultured in four experimental
   models in accordance with an example embodiment. Data represents the means
   standard deviation of 3 independent experiments and p < 0.05. As can be seen in the
   graph 1200C, the viability of hepatocytes in the 3D-Hepa SMPD model 1201 is
10 approximately 95%, even after 12 days in culture, and is significantly higher than
   others since the 10th day. The cell viability in the 3D-perfusion 1203, 3D-static 1204,
   and 2D-static models 1202 shows a significant downward trend with the increase in
   number of days, and the cell viability in the 3D-static model 1204 even begins to be
   lower than that in the 2D-static model 1202 after the 8th day. These results clearly
15 demonstrate that perfusion culture contributes to the long-term maintenance of
   hepatocyte spheroid morphology and viability, and that only sufficient flow rates can
   positively affect the viability of the hepatocyte spheroids, especially in long-term culture.
   By way of example, the effect of membrane and membrane-free state on cell viability
20 at lOpL/min and 1OOpL/min perfusion flow rates are also compared. At a flow rate of
   lOpL/min, approximately 25% of the hepatocyte spheroids in the open microwell
   escaped from the wells after 3 days of perfusion culture, and there is a large amount of
   cell death due to the serious impact of fluid shear stress. In the microwell with
   microporous membrane, the cell spheroids are 100% located in situ and the cell
25 viability was close to 100%, not being significantly disturbed by the fluid.
   Furthermore, even at a flow rate of 100pL/min, the cell spheroids are still 100% located
   in situ and cell viability is close to 100% in the microwell with microporous membrane,
   again not being significantly disturbed by the fluid. However, the cell spheroids in the
30 open microwell cannot be cultured at this high perfusion flow rate, since the cell
   spheroids almost completely escape after 1 day of perfusion culture. This implies that
   in terms of escaping and viability, the cell spheroids in the microwell with microporous
   membrane are more secure, and this structure can provide a wide range of flow rates
                                                 24

   to meet the demands of most experimental requirements based on hepatocyte
   spheroid perfusion culture.
   Maintaining functionality of a hepatocyte in an in vitro liver model is critical for studying
 5 toxicity and drug metabolism. To evaluate the cellular properties of liver spheroids in a
   microfluidic perfusion device, hepatocyte polarity and liver-specific functions are
   specifically analyzed.
   By way of example, an immortal human hepatocyte cell line HepG2/C3A is employed
10 to establish a 3D liver model, because this cell line has polarity features, such as bile
   canalicular like-spaces, that are microvilli-lined and sealed by tight junctions.
   To assess hepatocyte polarity, MRP2 which specifically localizes to the apical
   membrane is used as an indicator of polarity reestablishment. ZO-1 staining is used to
   identify the canalicular space boundary. In the formation of cell polarization, MRP2 is
15 mainly located to the canalicular space delineated by the ZO-1. With the loss of
   polarity, it is observed that MRP2 expression decreases or endocytosis occurs.
   Figure 13A illustrates a graph 1300A of hepatocytes polarization in accordance with an
   example embodiment. The expression of the tight junction protein ZO-1 is shown in
20 green and the apical export protein MRP2 is shown in red. Scale bar is 50pm. MRP2 is
   mainly located to the canalicular space delineated by the ZO-1 and significantly
   increases in 3D-Hepa SMPD model on Day 12 as compared to the 3D-perfusion and
   2D-static models.
25 The graph 1300A shows that the MRP2 protein of the hepatocyte spheroids in the 3D
   Hepa-SMPD model and 3D-perfusion model has been extensively expressed after 3
   days of perfusion culture, and there is no significant difference in the amounts of their
   expression. They both show the tubular structure similar to bile canaliculi. While in the
   conventional 2D-static model, the MRP2 protein expression is dot-like and was only
30 occasionally observed between two adjacent hepatocytes after constant culture of 5
   days, which indicates the finite formation of the bile canaliculi-like structures. On the
   12th day of the perfusion culture, the expression of MRP2 protein in the 3D Hepa
   SMPD model is significantly higher than that in the 3D-perfusion model and 2D-static
                                                 25

   model, indicating that the 3D Hepa-SMPD model can better maintain hepatocyte
   polarity than the other models.
   Figure 13B illustrates a graph 1300B of multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2) volume
 5 ratio in accordance with an example embodiment. As can be seen in graph 1300B, the
   volume percentage (1.56  0.83%) of the expression of MRP2 protein in the 3D Hepa
   SMPD model on the 12th day is significantly greater than that in the 3D-perfusion
   model (0.620.53%), and the percentage (88.9910.99%) of MRP2 protein located in
   the bile canalicular space in the 3D Hepa-SMPD model is also significantly higher than
10 that in the 3D-perfusion model (74.3311.67%), confirming that cellular polarity is best
   maintained in the 3D Hepa-SMPD model.
   Figure 13C illustrates a graph 1300C of albumin synthesis rate in accordance with an
   example embodiment. Figure 13D illustrates a graph 1300D of urea production in
15 accordance with an example embodiment.
   From the graphs 1300C and 1300D, it is observed that the 3D Hepa-SMPD model can
   significantly enhance the albumin and urea synthesis of hepatocytes as compared to
   the other two models at all time points. In the 3D-perfusion model, although the
20 demand for timely supply of nutrients can be met by increasing the flow rate, it is still
   necessary to sacrifice cell viability and the in-situ location rate of the cell spheroids,
   which is also a common problem with perfusion culture models based on microwell
   arrays.
25 Whereas in the 3D Hepa-SMPD model, since the microporous membrane possesses
   the direct effect of isolating the cell spheroids from the fluid, its perfusion flow rate has
   a wide range of selection. Although it requires a higher perfusion flow rate and thus
   consumes more cell culture medium, a reasonable perfusion flow rate can still be
   selected. The results in the graph of 1300C and 1300D show that the 3D Hepa-SMPD
30 model also has great advantages in the long-term maintenance of liver-specific
   functions.
   The data in the specifications are presented as mean  standard deviation(SD). For
   the determination of statistical significance, the results are analyzed using Student's t
                                                 26

   test or one-way analysis of variance (one-way ANOVA) followed by Tukey's post-hoc
   test. A probability value of less than 0.05 (*P < 0.05) is determined to be statistically
   significant.
 5 The method and apparatus in accordance with example embodiments are provided as
   examples, and examples from one method or apparatus should not be construed to
   limit examples from another method or apparatus. Further, methods and apparatus
   discussed within different figures can be added to or exchanged with methods and
   apparatus in other figures. Further yet, specific numerical data values (such as specific
10 quantities, numbers,      categories, etc.) or other specific information should      be
   interpreted as illustrative for discussing example embodiments.
   For example, microwells are used as illustrative examples of the cell culture chamber,
   but it is clear to one skilled in the art that the cell culture chamber may be of any
15 configuration.
   For example, hepatocytes are used to illustrate spheroid culture but is clear that other
   cellular systems may benefit from the current method and system, for example skeletal
   and muscular cells, and cells of other organs and structures.
                                                27

                                          CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A microfluidic perfusion device, comprising:
        a chamber that contains and cultures cells therein, wherein the chamber has a
chamber opening;
        a porous membrane that is reversibly attached onto the chamber and covers the
chamber opening; and
        a perfusion layer comprises at least one channel with an inlet and an outlet and
a fluid opening therebetween;
        the chamber, the membrane, and the perfusion layer forming a multilayer
vessel;
        the fluid opening positioned to matches the position of the chamber opening
with the membrane sandwiched therebetween,
        wherein perfusion fluid infused from the inlet during use can flow from the fluid
opening into the chamber through the porous membrane such that the shear stress of
the perfusion fluid entering the chamber can be minimized.
2. The microfluidic perfusion device of claim 1, wherein
        the chamber comprises a microwells array for culturing the cells therein, with
    each microwell opening being a chamber opening;
        the fluid opening of the perfusion layer is positioned to match the microwells
    array; and
        the membrane covers the microwell openings.
3. The microfluidic perfusion device of claim 1, wherein
        the chamber comprises a microwells array for culturing the cells therein, with
    each microwell opening being a chamber opening;
        the channel of the perfusion layer is open, elongated and serpetining across the
    layer to form one fluid opening, and
        the position of the channel coincides with the microwells of the microwells array
    such that perfusion fluid can enter therethrough into the microwells.
                                             28

4. The microfluidic perfusion device of claim 1, further comprising a housing around
    the multilayer vessel that includes:
        a lid disposed next to the chamber;
        a base disposed next to the perfusion layer; and
        a plurality of fasteners and springs that connect the lid and the base on a
    plurality of sides;
        wherein an independent spring loading force is created at each spring to clamp
    the multilayer vessel and allow fluid flow between the chamber and the layer
    without leakage.
5. The microfluidic perfusion device of claim 1, further comprising:
        a bracket that house a plurality of thumb screws and support screws;
        a lid that includes a plurality of springs; and
        a base that house a plurality of standoffs,
        wherein the lid is fixed with the support screws; the springs are led by the
support screws; the bracket and the base are connected by the thumb screws and
standoffs to contain the lid and the multilayer vessel and to keep a deflection of the
springs.
6. The microfluidic perfusion device in claim 1, further comprising a base and a lid
    with a spring, wherein the multilayer vessel is clamped between the lid and base by
    biasing the spring.
7. The microfluidic perfusion device in claim 1, further comprising a lid that covers the
    perfusion layer, wherein the lid includes a vent hole that provides air for the
    perfusion layer.
8. The microfluidic perfusion device in claim 1, wherein the fluidic opening matches a
    microwells array in the chamber.
9. The microfluidic perfusion device in claim 1, further comprising a base that holds
    the multilayer vessel on a cover glass, the base includes:
        a disk made of transparent material;
        a groove that is centered in the disk; and
                                                29

          an opening that is under the groove and centered in the disk,
          wherein a diameter of the groove is larger than a diameter of the cover glass
  and a diameter of the opening is smaller than a diameter of the cover glass so that the
  cover glass and the multilayer vessel can be positioned in the base.
  10. The microfluidic perfusion device in claim 1, further comprising a base that includes
      a plurality of standoffs and a lid that includes a plurality of springs, wherein a
      smaller height of the standoffs corresponds to a larger deflection of the springs.
  11.The microfluidic perfusion device in claim 1, wherein the perfusion layer is made of
      a polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) material.
  12.The microfluidic perfusion device of claim 1, wherein the cells are cultured into cell
      spheroids.
  13.The microfluidic perfusion device in claim 1, wherein the cells are hepatocyte
      spheroids.
  14. A method of culturing cells comprising:
          introducing cells into a cell culture chamber; and
          perfusing the cells with a fluid through a porous membrane at a shear force
      lower than 0.03pa.
  15.The method of claim 14, wherein the cells are cultured into cell spheroids.
  16.The method of claim 14, wherein the cells are hepatocyte spheroids.
  17.The method of claim 14, wherein the chamber includes an array of microwells that
      is covered by the porous membrane and the cells are cultured in the microwells.
  18.The method of claim 14, wherein the cells can be perfused at a flow rate that is not
      lower than 100 'L/minute.
5
  19.A method of fabricating a microwells layer for a microfluidic perfusion device,
      comprising:
                                                 30

        milling, by a V-shape ball end milling cutter, a polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA)
master with a matrix of microwells;
        introducing a polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) prepolymer into the PMMA master
to yield a PDMS master;
        curing the PDMS master at 80   OC   for 60 minutes;
        peeling the PDMS master off from the PMMA master after incubation;
        spin-coating a second PDMS prepolymer onto the PDMS master;
        inverting the PDMS master on a support and standing for 60 minutes;
        curing and aging the PDMS master at 200       OC for 120 minutes;
        casting a third PDMS prepolymer into the PDMS master to mold a PDMS
microwells layer; and
        curing the PDMS microwells layer at 80     0C for 60 minutes to get a microwells
layer.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein method of fabricating a microwells layer further
    comprising:
        arranging microwells adjacent to each other to create a sloped wall with a
rounded ridge between two microwells.
                                              31

<removed-date>
                                <U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2704><U+2735><U+2735>
                                              <U+2704><U+2735><U+2704>
              <U+2704><U+2735><U+2738><U+272D><U+2704><U+272E>                          <U+2704><U+2735><U+2738><U+272D><U+2737><U+272E>
                              <U+2704><U+2735><U+2739>
                <U+2704><U+2735><U+273B>
                <U+2704><U+2735><U+273C>                           <U+2704><U+2735><U+2737>
                <U+2704><U+2735><U+273D>
                                              <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704>
                  <U+2704><U+2735><U+273E>
                                        <U+2704><U+2735><U+273A>
                        <U+2704><U+2704><U+2735>   <U+2704><U+2704><U+2737>
                               <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2702>

                                            <U+2737> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
                <U+2737><U+2735><U+2735>
                                      <U+2737><U+2704><U+2735><U+272D><U+2738><U+272E>          <U+2737><U+2704><U+273A> <U+272D><U+2737><U+272E>
                                     <U+2737><U+2735><U+2704>
                                                             <U+2737><U+2735><U+273D><U+272D><U+2738><U+272E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2737><U+2704><U+273A> <U+272D><U+2704><U+272E>
                                                                   <U+2737><U+2704><U+273A> <U+272D><U+2738><U+272E>
                                           <U+2737><U+2735><U+273E><U+272D><U+2738><U+272E>
                                                              <U+2737><U+2704><U+2735><U+272D><U+2737><U+272E>
                   <U+2737><U+2704><U+2735><U+272D><U+2704><U+272E>
                                                              <U+2737><U+2735><U+273D><U+272D><U+2737><U+272E>
                <U+2737><U+2735><U+273D><U+272D><U+2704><U+272E>      <U+2737><U+2735><U+273E><U+272D><U+2704><U+272E>                        <U+2737><U+2735><U+273E><U+272D><U+2737><U+272E>
                            <U+2737><U+2735><U+2737>                     <U+2737><U+2704><U+273E>
                                                    <U+2737><U+2737><U+2735>
                          <U+2737><U+2704><U+2704>
                                                                       <U+2737><U+2735><U+2738>
                             <U+2737><U+2735><U+2739>                          <U+2737><U+2704><U+2737>
                            <U+2737><U+2735><U+273A>
                                                           <U+2737><U+2704><U+2739><U+272D><U+2737><U+272E>
                            <U+2737><U+2735><U+273B>
                                                             <U+2737><U+2704><U+2738>
                                                                <U+2737><U+2704><U+273B>
                 <U+2737><U+2704><U+2739><U+272D><U+2704><U+272E>
                                                                      <U+2737><U+2704><U+2739><U+272D><U+2738><U+272E>
                 <U+2737><U+2735><U+273C>
                 <U+2737><U+2704><U+273C>
                                                              <U+2737><U+2704><U+273D>
                                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>

                      <U+2738> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>     <U+2738><U+2735><U+2735>
              <U+2738><U+2735><U+2704>
                             <U+2738><U+2735><U+2739>
              <U+2738><U+2735><U+2738>
              <U+2738><U+2735><U+2737>
                     <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>

                                        <U+2739> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2739><U+2735><U+2735>
                                                            <U+2739><U+2739><U+2704>
              <U+2739><U+2704><U+2735>
                            <U+2739><U+2737><U+2735>
                                                                  <U+2739><U+273A><U+2735>
                                               <U+2739><U+2739><U+2735>
                                                            <U+2739><U+2739><U+2739>
                                                <U+2739><U+2739><U+2738>   <U+2739><U+2739><U+2737>
                      <U+2739><U+2704><U+2704>
                                  <U+2739><U+2738><U+2735>
                                    <U+274B>   <U+2710><U+2763><U+2733>

                                       <U+273A> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>
              <U+25BC><U+2710><U+2767><U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275B> <U+2663><U+2666><U+2767><U+2461><U+2660><U+2761>t<U+2764><U+2461><U+2767> <U+2660><U+2761>t<U+2764><U+275B><U+275D>r<U+2461><U+2767><U+275B>t<U+2761> <U+272D>P<U+25BC><U+25BC><U+2746><U+272E> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r <U+2707><U+2710>t<U+2764> <U+275B>
                                  <U+2660><U+2710><U+275D>r<U+2666><U+2707><U+2761><U+2767><U+2767>s <U+275B>rr<U+275B><U+2461>
                                       <U+273A><U+2704><U+2735>
              <U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+275E><U+2709><U+275D><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275B> <U+2663><U+2666><U+2767><U+2461><U+275E><U+2710><U+2660><U+2761>t<U+2764><U+2461><U+2767>s<U+2710><U+2767><U+2666><U+2460><U+275B><U+2665><U+2761> <U+272D>P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759><U+272E> <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2663><U+2666><U+2767><U+2461><U+2660><U+2761>r
                   <U+2710><U+2665>t<U+2666> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+25BC><U+25BC><U+2746> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r t<U+2666> <U+2461><U+2710><U+2761><U+2767><U+275E> <U+275B> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r
<removed-apn>
                                       <U+273A><U+2737><U+2735>
                 <U+2748><U+2709>r<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r <U+275B>t <U+273D><U+2735> <U+2701><U+2748> <U+2762><U+2666>r <U+273B><U+2735> <U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+2709>t<U+2761>s
                                       <U+273A><U+2738><U+2735>
               P<U+2761><U+2761><U+2767><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r <U+2666><U+2762><U+2762> <U+2762>r<U+2666><U+2660> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+25BC><U+25BC><U+2746> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r
                               <U+275B><U+2762>t<U+2761>r <U+2710><U+2665><U+275D><U+2709><U+275C><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                       <U+273A><U+2739><U+2735>
                <U+2759><U+2663><U+2710><U+2665><U+2732><U+275D><U+2666><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275B> s<U+2761><U+275D><U+2666><U+2665><U+275E> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2663><U+2666><U+2767><U+2461><U+2660><U+2761>r <U+2666><U+2665>t<U+2666> t<U+2764><U+2761>
                                  P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r
                                       <U+273A><U+273A><U+2735>
               <U+2665><U+2708><U+2761>rt<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r <U+2666><U+2665> <U+275B> s<U+2709><U+2663><U+2663><U+2666>rt <U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> st<U+275B><U+2665><U+275E><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763>
                                 <U+2762><U+2666>r <U+273B><U+2735> <U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+2709>t<U+2761>s
                                       <U+273A><U+273B><U+2735>
               <U+2748><U+2709>r<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> <U+275B><U+2763><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r <U+275B>t <U+2704><U+2735><U+2735> <U+2701><U+2748> <U+2762><U+2666>r <U+2704><U+2704><U+2735>
                                     <U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+2709>t<U+2761>s
                                       <U+273A><U+273C><U+2735>
              <U+2748><U+275B>st<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275B> t<U+2764><U+2710>r<U+275E> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2663>r<U+2761><U+2663><U+2666><U+2767><U+2461><U+2660><U+2761>r <U+2710><U+2665>t<U+2666> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+275B>st<U+2761>r
                          t<U+2666> <U+2660><U+2666><U+2767><U+275E> <U+275B> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+2710><U+275D>r<U+2666><U+2707><U+2761><U+2767><U+2767>s <U+2767><U+275B><U+2461><U+2761>r
                                       <U+273A><U+273D><U+2735>
                 <U+2748><U+2709>r<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> t<U+2764><U+2761> P<U+2749><U+25BC><U+2759> <U+2660><U+2710><U+275D>r<U+2666><U+2707><U+2761><U+2767><U+2767>s <U+2767><U+275B><U+2461><U+2761>r <U+275B>t <U+273D><U+2735> <U+2701><U+2748> <U+2762><U+2666>r <U+273B><U+2735>
                         <U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+2709>t<U+2761>s t<U+2666> <U+2763><U+2761>t <U+275B> <U+2660><U+2710><U+275D>r<U+2666><U+2707><U+2761><U+2767><U+2767>s <U+2767><U+275B><U+2461><U+2761>r
                                       <U+273A><U+273E><U+2735>
                                      <U+274B>   <U+2710><U+2763><U+2733>

                            <U+273B> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-date>     <U+2746>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2735>
                                       <U+273B><U+2735><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2739>
                    <U+273B><U+2735><U+2737>
                    <U+273B><U+2735><U+2738>
                     <U+273B><U+2735><U+273A>
                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>    <U+2746>
                <U+2701>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2735>
                                       <U+273B><U+2735><U+2704>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2739>
                    <U+273B><U+2735><U+2738>
                     <U+273B><U+2735><U+273A>
                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>    <U+2747>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+273C><U+2735><U+2735>
                    <U+2746>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
<U+2746>                           <U+273C> <U+2736><U+2701>

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          <U+273C><U+2735><U+2735>
                          <U+2701>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
                                        <U+273D> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+2747>
             <U+273C><U+2735><U+2704>
       <U+273C><U+2735><U+2737>

<removed-date>
                                     <U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
                <U+2748>
              <U+273C><U+2735><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
               <U+273C><U+2735><U+2735>  <U+2749>               <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>    <U+2748>
                                      <U+273C><U+2735><U+2738>
                              <U+273C><U+2735><U+2739>
                        <U+273C><U+2735><U+273A>
                                    <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>    <U+2749>

<removed-date>
                    <U+2736>   <U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
                <U+2746>
              <U+273D><U+2735><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>       <U+273D><U+2746>
                <U+2701>
              <U+273D><U+2735><U+2735>
                    <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>       <U+273D><U+2747>

<removed-date>
                         <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2736><U+2701>
                <U+2748>
              <U+273D><U+2735><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                        <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273D><U+2748>
                <U+273D><U+2735><U+2735> <U+2749>
                        <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>   <U+273D><U+2749>

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
       <U+273E><U+2735><U+2735>                     <U+273E><U+2735><U+2735>
       <U+2701>                       <U+2746>
                                     <U+2736>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733>
                                     <U+2737> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+273E>

<removed-date>
                           <U+2736><U+2738> <U+2736><U+2701>
                 <U+2746>
              <U+2704><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2704><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>   <U+2701>
                         <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2702><U+2735>

<removed-date>
                         <U+2736><U+2739> <U+2736><U+2701>
                 <U+2746>
              <U+2704><U+2704><U+2735><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+274B>   <U+2710><U+2763><U+2733> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2746>
                 <U+2701>
              <U+2704><U+2704><U+2735><U+2735>
                     <U+274B>   <U+2710><U+2763><U+2733> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2747>

                     <U+2746>
<removed-date>
               <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735><U+2735>          <U+2736><U+273A> <U+2736><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2733> <U+2702> <U+2746>
                 <U+2701>
              <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735><U+2735>
                         <U+274B>   <U+2710><U+2763><U+2733> <U+2702> <U+2747>

<removed-date>
                                <U+2736><U+273B> <U+2736><U+2701>
                 <U+2748>
              <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735><U+2704>
                                             <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735><U+2738>
                     <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735><U+2737>
                                            <U+2704><U+2737><U+2735><U+2739>
                            <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2733> <U+2702>      <U+2748>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                          <U+2704><U+2738><U+2735><U+2735>
                          <U+2746>
                                 <U+2736>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2702>
                                 <U+273C> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+2746>

<removed-date>
                          <U+2736><U+273D> <U+2736><U+2701>
              <U+2704><U+2738><U+2735><U+2735>   <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2702>   <U+2747>
                 <U+2748>
              <U+2704><U+2738><U+2735><U+2735>
                         <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2702>   <U+2748>

         <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                      <U+2704><U+2738><U+2735><U+2735>
                      <U+2749>
<U+274B><U+25CF><U+2733> <U+2702>
                                     <U+2736><U+2701> <U+2736><U+2701>
<U+2749>

