ABSTRACT
A method for reducing solids migration into wellbores, the method comprising the
steps of: introducing a settable foamed material into a wellbore such that at least a
portion of the settable foamed material is located between a perforated production
casing and a surrounding rock structure, allowing the settable foamed material to at
least partially set, and creating one or more passages in the settable foamed
material, the one or more passages being adapted to bring one or more coal seams
in the rock structure into fluid communication with the wellbore.

       5/6
   10
                       21
              --  32
20
        -        2
            4       25
      FIG 5

                                               1
METHOD FOR REDUCING SOLIDS MIGRATION INTO WELLBORES
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]      The present invention relates to a method for reducing solids migration
into wellbores. In particular, the present invention relates to a method for reducing
solids migration into wellbores (and particularly coal seam gas wellbores including
vertical, deviated and horizontal wellbores) with pre-perforated or slotted production
casing sections that also serves to reinforce the wellbore.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]      Many oil and gas wells are provided with perforated or slotted production
casings in lower regions thereof (also known as pre-perforated casings, and these
terms will be used interchangeably). These production casings allow for low cost
completions due to the fact that cement slurry does not need to be pumped behind
the production casing and then the cement and casing subsequently perforated to
allow the flow of fluid (e.g. water, gas or oil) from the surrounding rock structure into
the wellbore. In addition, the invasion of cement slurry into the surrounding rock
structure (and in particular into coal seams) results in a reduced ability to effectively
dewater coal seams and produce gas.
[0003]      However, while the cost is reduced, these perforated production casings
suffer from the drawback that solid particles from the surrounding rock structure may
enter the wellbore through the casing holes (pre-perforations). These solid particles
may cause blockages in down-hole pumps and production tubing, resulting in the
premature failure of completion systems.
[0004]      Thus, while pre-perforated production casings may provide a relatively
low-cost completion, the experience of many well operators is that the cost of lost
production and maintenance due to the excessive migration of solids into the
wellbore may outweigh the cost benefit of installing a perforated casing.
[0005]      Unfortunately, however, it is not possible to remove a perforated casing
from a live well. Thus, there would be an advantage if it were possible to provide a

                                              2
method for reducing solids migration into wellbores (and particularly a wellbore in
which a pre-perforated casing is present) that also serves to reinforce the wellbore.
[0006]      Some attempts have been made to overcome these problems. For
instance, PCT patent application no. PCT/US2014/037474 discloses a method of
using an aqueous curable resin to penetrate formation laminae in the rock structure
of a wellbore so as to stabilise or strengthen the rock structure and reduce the
migration of solids into the wellbore. However, this method suffers from the
drawback that the aqueous curable resin is also highly likely to penetrate coal seams
in the rock structure, resulting in plugging of or damage to the coal seams and
thereby reducing the ability to recover coal seam gas from the coal seams. In fact, it
would be anticipated that the aqueous curable resin of PCT/US2014/037474 may
preferentially invade or penetrate coal seams due to the relatively high permeability
of coal compared to the rock above and below the coal seams.
[0007]      In addition, the method of PCT/US2014/037474 suffers from the drawback
that, as aqueous curable resin is introduced between the rock structure and a
perforated casing in a lower region of the wellbore, a significant amount of the
aqueous curable resin may flow inside the casing through the perforations in the
perforated casing. This not only causes blockages in the perforated casing
(potentially reducing the ability to dewater the coal seams) but also increases the
likelihood of downhole tools getting stuck in the wellbore and being unable to be
readily withdrawn (when such a tool is used). This in turn results in lost production,
as well as the potential to lose the well entirely. Thus, there would be a further
advantage if it were possible to provide a method for reducing solids migration into
wellbores (and particularly a wellbore in which a pre-perforated casing is present)
that doesn't adversely affect the recovery of coal seam gas from a wellbore.
[0008]      It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to
herein, this reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part
of the common general knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.

                                              3
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0009]      The present invention is directed to a method for reducing solids migration
into wellbores, which may at least partially overcome at least one of the
abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer with a useful or commercial
choice.
[0010]      With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides
broadly in a method for reducing solids migration into wellbores, the method
comprising the steps of: introducing a settable foamed material into a wellbore such
that at least a portion of the settable foamed material is located between a perforated
production casing and a surrounding rock structure, allowing the settable foamed
material to at least partially set, and creating one or more passages in the settable
foamed material, the one or more passages being adapted to bring one or more coal
seams in the rock structure into fluid communication with the wellbore.
[0011]      The settable foamed material may be introduced into the wellbore using
any suitable technique. Preferably, however, the settable foamed material may be
pumped into the wellbore, preferably from above ground level. Any suitable pump
may be used to pump the settable foamed material into the wellbore.
[0012]      The settable foamed material may be introduced to the wellbore in any
suitable location. Preferably, however, the settable foamed material may be
introduced to the wellbore through a tubing (a jointed tubing or, more preferably, a
coiled tubing) within the well. In some embodiments of the invention, production
tubing in the wellbore may be at least partially withdrawn or removed from the
wellbore to allow the tubing to be inserted into the wellbore and the settable foamed
material to be introduced.
[0013]      In some embodiments of the invention, it may be necessary to prepare the
wellbore prior to the introduction of the settable foamed material. Any suitable
preparation technique may be used, although in a preferred embodiment of the
invention, the preparation of the wellbore may involve removing solid particles from
the wellbore and/or the annular space between the pre-perforated casing and the

                                             4
surrounding rock structure. In this way, an unimpeded flowpath for the settable
foamed material may be formed.
[0014]     The wellbore may be prepared using any suitable technique. For
instance, solid particles may be removed from the flowpath using a fluid (such as
water, brine, air or nitrogen, or any suitable combination thereof) and then the solid
particles may be pumped to the surface. Also, specialised downhole cleaning tools
such as the one described in Australian innovation patent no. <removed-apn> may be
used to enhance the cleaning behind the casing.
[0015]     The settable foamed material may be provided as a substantially
homogenous mixture. Alternatively, the settable foamed material may comprise two
or more components that must be mixed together to form the settable foamed
material. The two or more components may be mixed at any suitable location. For
instance, the two or more components may be mixed at the surface prior to the
introduction of the settable foamed material into the wellbore. Alternatively, the
mixing of the two or more components may occur during the pumping of the two or
more components into the wellbore. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the
settable foamed material is introduced into the wellbore in a substantially liquid
pumpable foam form. Once in location between the perforated production casing
and the surrounding rock structure, the settable foamed material may set to form an
at least partially solid material.
[0016]     The settable foamed material may be of any suitable form. For instance,
the settable foamed material may at least partially comprise a cementitious material.
Alternatively, the settable foamed material may comprise a natural polymeric
material, a synthetic polymeric material, or a combination of the two (for instance,
rubber, polyurethane, polyester, polyvinylchloride, polyethylene or the like, or a
combination or cross linked thereof). In some embodiments of the invention, the
settable foamed material may also include a settable resin, such as, but not limited
to, an epoxy resin.
[0017]      It will be understood that the settable foamed material may be provided in
the form of a foam, and particularly a liquid foam which is preferably mixed and
pumped from the surface. Alternatively, the settable foamed material may be

                                               5
introduced to the wellbore as a liquid and then converted to a foam in situ. It is
envisaged that the settable foamed material may further comprise a foaming agent.
Any suitable foaming agent may be used, such as a surfactant and/or a blowing
agent. Any suitable surfactant may be used, such as sodium lauryl ether sulfate
(SLES), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), ammonium lauryl sulfate (ALS) or the like, or
any suitable combination thereof. Similarly, any suitable blowing agent may be used,
such as, but not limited to, nitrogen, air, carbon dioxide, or the like, or any suitable
combination thereof.
[0018]      In some embodiments of the invention, the settable foamed material may
further comprise one or more of the following components: a curing agent, a gellant
(such as guar or guar derivatives, synthetic polymers, cellulose or viscoelastic
surfactant), a catalyst, an activator, a crosslinker (such as metallic or borate types), a
strengthening agent, or the like. The settable foamed material, once set, may be in
the form of a foam, a gel, a solid, a semi-solid or the like, or a combination thereof.
[0019]      In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the specific gravity of the
settable foamed material may not exceed 2.0. More preferably, the specific gravity of
the settable foamed material may be between approximately 0.1 and 1.0. Still more
preferably, the specific gravity of the settable foamed material may be between
approximately 0.3 and 0.9. Most preferably, the specific gravity of the settable
foamed material may be between about 0.5 and 0.8.
[0020]      It is also preferred that the settable foamed material may have a relatively
high viscosity. The settable foamed material may have any suitable viscosity,
although in a preferred embodiment of the invention, the settable foamed material
may have a viscosity greater than the viscosity of water (i.e. greater than 0.894 cP).
More preferably, the settable foamed material may have a viscosity of greater than
100.0 cP. Still more preferably, the settable foamed material may have a viscosity of
greater than 200.0 cP. Even more preferably, the settable foamed material may
have a viscosity of greater than 250.0 cP. It will be understood that the viscosity of
the settable foamed material refers to the viscosity of the liquid form of the settable
foamed material. Once set, the viscosity of the settable foamed material may be
much higher than these values.

                                             6
[0021]       In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the foam quality of the
settable foamed material at downhole conditions may not exceed 70%. More
preferably, the foam quality of the settable foamed material may be between 20%
and 50%. Most preferably, the foam quality of the settable foamed material may be
between 30% and 40%.
[0022]      As previously stated, the settable foamed material is introduced into the
wellbore such that at least a portion of the settable foamed material is located
between a perforated production casing and a surrounding rock structure. More
preferably, a substantial portion of the settable foamed material may be located
between the perforated production casing and a surrounding rock structure. Still
more preferably, substantially all of the settable foamed material may be located
between the perforated production casing and a surrounding rock structure.
[0023]       In some embodiments of the invention, the settable foamed material may,
when set, adhere or bond to the perforated casing and/or the surrounding rock
structure. Alternatively, the settable foamed material may, when set, simply abut the
perforated casing and/or the surrounding rock structure. It is envisaged that, due to
the combination of the relatively low density and relatively high viscosity of the
settable foamed material, invasion or penetration of the settable foamed material into
the rock structure may be substantially precluded. In addition, and for the same
reason, flow of the settable foamed material into the wellbore through perforations in
the pre-perforated casing may be substantially precluded. It is also envisaged that,
due to the combination of the relatively low density and relatively high viscosity of the
settable foamed material, the settable foamed material will flow in the annular cavity
rather than either penetrate the rock structure or pass through the perforations in the
pre-perforated casing. This is particularly the case when the wellbore contains water
having a greater density than the settable foamed material. It is envisaged that, due
to the differences in density, the flow of water from the wellbore into the annular
cavity between the perforated casing and the rock structure is more likely to occur
than the flow of settable foamed material through the perforated casing into the
wellbore. Preferably, the settable foamed material will flow in a direction that is
substantially parallel to the casing.

                                                7
[0024]      Preferably, the settable foamed material has a number of advantageous
properties. For instance, as previously stated, the viscosity of the settable foamed
material is preferably relatively high. This relatively high viscosity may assist in
substantially eliminating the entry of the settable foamed material into coal seams
and matrix rock in the surrounding rock structure. Similarly, by providing a settable
foamed material with a specific gravity lower than that of water (if required), the
settable foamed material may be adapted to float on any water entering the wellbore
from a coal seam so as not to restrict or impede the flow of fluid from the coal seam
into the wellbore. Furthermore, the relatively low specific gravity of the settable
foamed material enables placement with a reduced hydrostatic pressure which
further reduces or even eliminates the risk of invasion of the settable foamed material
into the coal seams.
[0025]      In addition, it is preferred that the settable foamed material is of sufficient
mechanical strength and durability so as to remain in use for extended periods of
time. Further, it is preferred that the settable foamed material may reduce or mitigate
the migration of solid particles from the surrounding rock structure into the wellbore.
The settable foamed material may do this by providing a physical barrier between the
rock structure and the perforated casing and/or by reinforcing the rock structure such
that solid particles do not become detached or separated from the rock structure
and/or by having relatively low permeability such that solid particles from the rock
structure are physically unable to pass through the settable foamed material and
enter the wellbore through the perforated casing. Another advantage may be that the
presence of the settable foamed material may prevent or reduce the instance of
erosion of the rock structure (and therefore migration of solid particles into the
wellbore) through exposure of the rock structure to water flowing from the coal
seams. Furthermore, the presence of the settable foamed material may reduce or
minimise interaction between clay-rich rock in the rock structure and water from coal
seams. This interaction can result in swelling of clay in the rock structure and
migration of clay particles into the wellbore.
[0026]      In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the settable foamed material
may be directed into a cavity or gap between the perforated production casing and a
surrounding rock structure. In some embodiments of the invention, the settable

                                              8
foamed material may be directed into the annular cavity between the rock structure
and the production casing. The direction of the settable foamed material may be
achieved using any suitable technique. For instance, the settable foamed material
may simply exit the tubing and flow into the cavity between the perforated casing and
the rock structure. More preferably, however, the settable foamed material may be
directed through one or more conduits between the tubing and the perforated casing.
Any suitable conduit may be provided (such as one or more pipes, a downhole tool or
the like) through which the settable foamed material may flow. In a preferred
embodiment of the invention, the one or more conduits direct the settable foamed
material radially outwardly from the tubing towards the perforated casing.
[0027]       It is envisaged that the one or more conduits may include an open end
distal to the tubing through which the settable foamed material exits the one or more
conduits. The open end of the one or more conduits may preferable be located in
abutment with, or close proximity to, an inner surface of the perforated casing such
that settable foamed material exiting the one or more conduits passes through the
perforations in the perforated casing and enters the cavity or gap between the
perforated casing and the surrounding rock structure. In some embodiments of the
invention, one or more apertures may be created in the perforated casing through
which the settable foamed material enters the cavity. The one or more apertures
may be new apertures in the perforated casing or may be perforations that are
expanded in size to improve the flow of settable foamed material therefore. The
apertures may be formed using any suitable technique. For instance, the apertures
may be formed in the perforated casing prior to the perforated casing being inserted
into the wellbore, or the one or more apertures may be formed in situ using a cutting
tool, jet nozzle (such as an abrasion jet nozzle) and/or high velocity fluid or the like.
More commonly, perforation charges may be used to form the apertures.
[0028]       Preferably, the settable foamed material enters the cavity between the
perforated casing and the rock structure in a lower region of the wellbore (i.e. at or
adjacent the bottom of the wellbore). Preferably, as further settable foamed material
enters the cavity between the perforated casing and the rock structure, the level of
the settable foamed material in the cavity rises, and it is envisaged that little or no
settable foamed material will enter the wellbore from the cavity through the

                                               9
perforated casing. In a preferred embodiment of the invention sufficient settable
foamed material may be introduced into the cavity until substantially the entire rock
structure (or, more specifically, substantially the entire exposed face of the rock
structure) between the bottom of the wellbore and the cemented well casing (i.e. the
cemented casing of the upper wellbore with an external casing packer) is covered by
the settable foamed material. In other embodiments, the settable foamed material
may extend only a portion of the distance between the bottom of the wellbore and the
cemented well casing.
[0029]      It is envisaged that, as the level of settable foamed material in the cavity
between the perforated casing and the rock structure rises, water in the cavity is
displaced into the wellbore through the perforated cavity, from where it is pumped to
the surface.
[0030]      The settable foamed material may be allowed to at least partially set for
any suitable period of time, and it will be understood that the period of time for which
the settable foamed material is permitted to set may vary depending on a number of
factors, including the exact composition of the settable foamed material, the
temperature in the wellbore, the pressure in the wellbore and the like, or a
combination thereof. Once set, it is envisaged that the settable foamed material may
form a physical barrier between the rock structure and the perforated casing.
[0031]      As previously stated, once the settable foamed material has at least
partially set (to form the substantially or at least partially impermeable barrier) one or
more passages are created in the settable foamed material, the one or more
passages being adapted to bring one or more coal seams in the rock structure into
fluid communication with the wellbore. The one or more passages may be located at
any suitable point in the settable foamed material. For instance, the one or more
passages may be located at regular (or irregular intervals) along the height of the
barrier formed by the settable foamed material and/or around the inner circumference
of the barrier. In this way fluids (such as water, gas and the like) may flow through
the one or more passages and into the wellbore, from where the fluids are pumped to
the surface. The one or more passages may be of identical size (diameter, length
etc.) or may be of different sizes.

                                             10
[0032]      More preferably, however, the one or more passages are selectively
formed at particular locations within the barrier. Preferably, the one or more
passages may be formed at locations corresponding to the location of one or more
coal seams within the rock structure. Thus, in this embodiment, it is envisaged that
portions of the settable foamed material located between coal seams in the rock
structure and the perforated casing may be removed so that the one or more
passages created by the removal of the settable foamed material extend directly from
the coal seams to the wellbore. In this way, the coal seams may be reconnected with
the wellbore.
[0033]      Conversely, it is preferred that substantially all of the settable foamed
material located between bands or regions of matrix rock in the rock structure (i.e.
the portion of the rock structure that is not the coal seams) and the perforated casing
remain in place and are not removed to create the one or more passages. Thus,
most preferably, the one or more passages only extend between coal seams in the
rock structure and the perforated casing.
[0034]      It is envisaged that the location of the one or more coal seams in the rock
structure may be known. For instance, drill core samples may assist in identifying
the location of the coal seams in the rock structure. In this way, settable foamed
material may be selectively removed from the barrier to reconnect the coal seams to
the wellbore without substantial exposure of the other non-coal rock sections. Any
other suitable technique of locating coal seams depths within the rock structure may
also be used, and such techniques will typically be conventional and require no
further discussion.
[0035]      The one or more passages may be formed in the settable foamed material
using any suitable technique. For instance, the one or more passages may be drilled
into, or dug out of, the settable foamed material. More preferably, however, the
removal of the settable foamed material from the barrier to form the one or more
passages may be achieved by passing a fluid through one or more outlets and
impacting the fluid on the barrier. In some embodiments of the invention, the fluid
may contain solid particles adapted to abrade the settable foamed material. Any
suitable outlets may be used, although in a preferred embodiment of the invention,

                                             11
the one or more outlets may be in the form of nozzles. In a more specific
embodiment of the invention, the one or more nozzles may be in the form of jetting
nozzles, or rotating jetting nozzles. In this embodiment of the invention it is
envisaged that fluid passing through the one or more jetting nozzles exits the nozzles
at a relatively high velocity. When the high velocity fluid impacts on the barrier of
settable foamed material, the high velocity fluid may remove settable foamed
material from the barrier to create a passage in the settable foamed material by any
suitable process, such as, but not limited to, abrasion, erosion, high pressure cutting,
perforation charges, skin fracturing treatment, nitrogen treatment or the like, or any
suitable combination thereof.
[0036]       Any suitable fluid may be used to create the one or more passages in the
settable foamed material. For instance, the fluid may comprise one or more liquids,
one or more gases, solids (e.g. frac sand) or a combination thereof. In some
embodiments of the invention, the fluid may be water, air or an inert gas such as
nitrogen. In some embodiments of the invention, a solvent or breaker may be added
to the fluid. In this embodiment of the invention, the formation of the one or more
passages in the settable foamed material may be through a combination of
mechanical action (through the impact of the fluid on the settable foamed material)
and chemical action (through the action of the solvent or breaker).
[0037]       Any suitable solvent or breaker may be used. For instance, the solvent
may be a non-polar solvent, a polar aprotic solvent, a polar protic solvent, or a
combination thereof, and the breaker may be an oxidizer, enzyme or acid type or a
combination thereof. In some embodiments of the invention, the solvent or breaker
may comprise one or more of the following substances: pentane, cyclopentane,
hexane, cyclohexane, benzene, toluene, 1,4-dioxane, chloroform, diethyl ether,
dichloromethane, tetrahydrofuran, ethyl acetate, acetone, dimethylformamide,
acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, persulfate, perborate, hypochlorite, sodium
hypochlorite, nitromethane, propylene carbonate, formic acid, hydrochloric acid,
synthetic acids, n-butanol, isopropanol, n-propanol, ethanol, methanol, acetic acid or
glycols. The solvent or breaker may be provided in any suitable quantity and in any
suitable concentration, and it will be understood that the selection of the solvent or
breaker, the quantity of the solvent or breaker used, the concentration of the solvent

                                             12
or breaker and so on, will be dependent on a number of factors, such as the
composition of the settable foamed material, the temperature in the wellbore, the
pressure in the wellbore and the like.
[0038]      The one or more nozzles may be provided at any suitable location. In a
preferred embodiment of the invention, however, the one or more nozzles may be
provided on the tubing. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, at least one of
the one or more nozzles may be rotating nozzles.
[0039]      It is envisaged that, once the one or more passages are formed in the
settable foamed material, the passages may extend between the coal seams in the
rock structure and the perforated casing, thereby reconnecting the coal seams and
the wellbore. In this way, the coal seams may be brought into fluid communication
with the wellbore. This fluid communication allows for the dewatering of the coal
seams as water may flow out of the coal seams, through the one or more passages
and into the wellbore, from where it may be pumped to the surface. It is envisaged
that, once the coal seams are at least partially dewatered, coal seam gas may flow
from the coal seams through the one or more passages and into the wellbore, from
where it may be recovered to the surface.
[0040]      By selectively removing settable foamed material located between the coal
seams and the perforated casing (and leaving in place settable foamed material
located between matrix rock in the rock structure and the perforated casing), the
matrix rock may remain substantially unexposed (i.e. the barrier formed by the
settable foamed material may substantially cover the matrix rock. In this way, the
movement or migration of solid particles from the matrix rock through the perforated
casing into the wellbore may be reduced or mitigated. This may be in part due to
water from the coal seams being unable to erode the matrix rock, or by preventing
interaction between clay-rich sections of the rock with fresh water produced from coal
seams, which often results in severe swelling and solids migration into the wellbore.
[0041]      In turn, reducing or eliminating the migration of solid particles into the
wellbore reduces the prevalence of restrictions or blockages in the production tubing
or and downhole pump caused by solid particles being pumped out of the well

                                             13
through the production tubing. This results in improved well production and reduced
well downtime and maintenance costs.
[0042]      In addition, the composition of the settable foamed material is selected to
as to provide the settable foamed material with properties (such as a relatively high
viscosity and relatively low density) that substantially eliminates the ability of the
settable foamed material to enter (or invade) the coal seams (or indeed, the matrix
rock surrounding the coal seams). It will be understood that the invasion of a
settable material into the coal seams (which are typically more permeable than the
surrounding matrix rock and therefore more susceptible to invasion by a settable
material) will reducing the ability of water and gas to flow out of the coal seams and
into the wellbore. This results in reduced or even halted well production.
[0043]     Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination
with any one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the
invention.
[0044]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0045]     Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient
information for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed
Description is not to be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of
the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will make reference to a number
of drawings as follows:
[0046]     Figure 1illustrates a wellbore according to the prior art.
[0047]     Figure 2 illustrates a wellbore according to a step in the method of the
present invention.
[0048]     Figure 3 illustrates a wellbore according to a step in the method of the
present invention.

                                              14
[0049]      Figure 4 illustrates a wellbore according to a step in the method of the
present invention.
[0050]      Figure 5 illustrates a wellbore according to a step in the method of the
present invention.
[0051]      Figure 6 illustrates a wellbore according to a step in the method of the
present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0052]      Figure 1 illustrates a wellbore 10 according to the prior art. The wellbore
10 of Figure 1 is a coal seam gas wellbore with a plurality of coal seams 11
surrounded by matrix rock 12 in the rock structure 13 surrounding the wellbore 10.
The wellbore of Figure 1 is shown when in production.
[0053]      In the wellbore 10 of Figure 1, a region of exposed rock structure 13 exists
between an upper cement casing 14 and a lower pre-perforated production casing
15. In production, water 16 from the coal seams 11 (and, once the coal seams are at
least partially dewatered, coal seam gas 30) enters the wellbore 10 through the pre
perforated production casing 15. Water 16 is removed from the wellbore 10 by being
pumped to the surface by a down-hole pump 17, while the coal seam gas 30 rises
through the wellbore 10 to the surface.
[0054]      Water 16 from the coal seams 11 can erode matrix rock 12 or cause clay
particles in the matrix rock 12 to swell. Both of these actions result in solid particles
18 from the matrix rock 12 entering the wellbore 10 through the pre-perforated
production casing 15. The pump 17 then pumps the solid particles 18 to the surface
with the water 16 as a slurry. However, depending on the volume of solids 18
entering the wellbore 10, the production tubing 19 and/or pump 17 through which the
water 16 and solids 18 are pumped may become obstructed or blocked, resulting in
lost production and maintenance costs.
[0055]      In Figure 2, a wellbore 10 according to a step in the method of the present
invention is illustrated. In this Figure, production tubing (not shown) has been
withdrawn to allow tubing 20 to be introduced into the wellbore 10. The tubing 20

                                              15
includes a downhole tool 22 having conduits that extends radially outwardly from the
centre of the wellbore 10 towards the pre-perforated casing 15. In use, the conduits
of the downhole tool 22 include outlets 31 that are located adjacent to, or in abutment
with, the pre-perforated casing 15.
[0056]       In Figure 3, a wellbore 10 according to a step in the method of the present
invention is illustrated. In this Figure, settable foamed material 21 in the form of a
liquid face and a gas (nitrogen) and also including a foaming agent in the form of a
surfactant and other components required to prepare a settable stable foam system
for the specific wellbore conditions (such as a gallant, activator and the like) is
introduced into the wellbore 10 through the tubing 20. When the settable foamed
material 21 reaches the lower end of the tubing 20, the settable foamed material 21
is directed radially outwardly from the tubing 20 towards the pre-perforated casing 15
through the conduits of the downhole tool 22. The settable foamed material 21 exits
the downhole tool 22 through outlets 31 and passes through the pre-perforated
casing 15 to enter the annular cavity 23 between the pre-perforated casing 15 and
the surrounding rock structure 13. Sufficient settable foamed material 21 is
introduced into the annular cavity 23 until the settable foamed material 21
substantially covers the entire exposed rock structure 13 between the bottom of the
wellbore 10 and the cement casing 14 in an upper section of the wellbore 10.
[0057]       The settable foamed material 21 of Figure 3 has a specific gravity of
between 0.5 and 0.8 and a relatively high viscosity. The relatively high viscosity and
relatively low density of the settable foamed material 21 ensures that the settable
foamed material flows substantially upwardly in the annular cavity 23 towards the
cement casing 14. The combination of relatively high viscosity and relatively low
density of the settable foamed material 21 substantially precludes the settable
foamed material 21 from invading or penetrating the rock structure 13 (and in
particular the coal seams 11) and from passing into the wellbore 10 through
perforations in the pre-perforated casing 15 . Indeed, it is likely that the wellbore 10
may be at least partially filled with water having a greater density than the settable
foamed material 21. Thus, the presence of water in the wellbore 21 may substantially
preclude the settable foamed material 21 from entering the wellbore 10 through the
pre-perforated casing 15.

                                             16
[0058]      In Figure 4, a step in the method of the present invention is illustrated. In
this Figure, sufficient settable foamed material 21 has been introduced into (and
allowed to at least partially set) the annular cavity 23 between the rock structure 13
and the pre-perforated casing 15 so as to form a physical barrier between the rock
structure 13 and the pre-perforated casing 15. It will be noted that, while the settable
foamed material 21 may abut or adhere to the rock structure 13, the settable foamed
material 21 has not penetrated or invaded the rock structure (and particularly the coal
seams 11). Thus, the settable foamed material 21 simply forms a physical barrier
that separates the rock structure 13 from the wellbore 10. At this point in the method,
solid particles from the rock structure 13 are substantially precluded from migrating
into the wellbore 10 due to the presence of the settable foamed material 21.
However, water and gas from the coal seams 11 are also substantially precluded
from entering the wellbore 10.
[0059]         In addition, the combination of the relatively low density and the
relatively high viscosity of the settable foamed material 21 means that the settable
foamed material 21 has been substantially precluded from entering the wellbore 10
through perforations in the pre-perforated casing 15. This allows the downhole tool
22 to be easily withdrawn from the wellbore 10. If the settable foamed material 21
had not been substantially precluded from entering the wellbore 10 through
perforations in the pre-perforated casing 15, the settable foamed material 21 would
have set on the inner surface of the pre-perforated casing 15 (i.e. within the wellbore
10) and would have physically obstructed the removal of the downhole tool 22 from
the wellbore 10. In turn, this would have resulted in lost production or even, in the
worst case, the loss of the entire well.
[0060]      In Figure 5, a step in the method of the present invention is illustrated. In
this Figure, the downhole tool of Figure 4 is replaced by rotating jetting nozzles 24
associated with the tubing 20. In the embodiment of the invention shown in Figure 5,
a mixture 32 of water and or a chemical breaker in the form of hydrochloric acid is
pumped down the tubing 20 from the surface and is expelled from the jetting nozzles
24 at a relatively high velocity towards the settable foamed material 21. A
combination of mechanical and chemical breakage of the settable foamed material

                                               17
21 by the water and chemical breaker mixture 32 results in the formation of a
passage 25 through the settable foamed material 21.
[0061]       The passage 25 reconnects a coal seam 11 with the wellbore 10 such that
water and coal seam gas from the coal seam 11 can flow through the passage 25
and the pre-perforated casing 15 into the wellbore 10. From here, the water can be
pumped to the surface by a pump (not shown) while gas flows upwardly through the
wellbore 10.
[0062]       It will be noted in Figure 5 that the passage 25 is selectively formed
between the coal seam 11 and the pre-perforated casing 15 so that the settable
foamed material 21 remains in place as a barrier between the matrix rock 12 above
and below the coal seam 11 and the pre-perforated casing 15. By leaving the
settable foamed material 21 as a barrier between the matrix rock 12 and the pre
perforated casing 15, the migration of solid particles from the matrix rock 12 into the
wellbore 10 may be mitigated.
[0063]       In Figure 6, the wellbore 10 is shown in a state where it is ready for
production to commence. A plurality of passages 25 have been formed in the barrier
of settable foamed material 21 so that each coal seam 11 within the rock structure 13
is reconnected to the wellbore 10. The passages 25 have been formed selectively
between the coal seams 11 and the pre-perforated casing 15 so that the matrix rock
12 is substantially unexposed and remains behind the settable foamed material 21.
It will also be noted that the production tubing 19 has been reintroduced to the
wellbore in readiness for the commencement of production.
[0064]       Water flows from the coal seams 11 through the passages 25 and into the
wellbore 10 from where it is pumped to the surface by pump 17. Once the coal
seams 11 are at least partially dewatered, coal seam gas will flow from the coal
seams 11 through the passages 25 and into the wellbore 10 from where it flows to
the surface.
[0065]       As water flows through the passages 25, the ability of the water to come
into contact with matrix rock 12 is reduced. Thus, erosion of matrix rock 12 (or

                                             18
swelling of clay particles in the matrix rock 12) is reduced, resulting in fewer solid
particles entering the wellbore 10.
[0066]       By reducing or mitigating the migration of solid particles into the wellbore
10, the likelihood of obstruction or blockage of the production tubing 19 and/or pump
17 may be reduced, thereby improving well production and reducing maintenance
costs due to well shutdowns.
[0067]       In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and
its derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated
integers but does not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0068]       Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an
embodiment' means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in
connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the
present invention. Thus, the appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in
an embodiment' in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures,
or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more
combinations.
[0069]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in
language more or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be
understood that the invention is not limited to specific features shown or described
since the means herein described comprises preferred forms of putting the invention
into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications
within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any) appropriately interpreted by
those skilled in the art.

                                            19
CLAIMS
1.     A method for reducing solids migration into wellbores, the method comprising
the steps of: introducing a settable foamed material into a wellbore such that at least
a portion of the settable foamed material is located between a perforated production
casing and a surrounding rock structure, allowing the settable foamed material to at
least partially set, and creating one or more passages in the settable foamed
material, the one or more passages being adapted to bring one or more coal seams
in the rock structure into fluid communication with the wellbore.
2.     A method according to claim 1 wherein the settable foamed material has a
specific gravity of between approximately 0.5 and 0.8.
3.     A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the settable foamed material
forms a barrier between the perforated casing and the rock structure, and the one or
more passages are created by selectively removing settable foamed material from
the barrier to reconnect the coal seams to the wellbore without substantial exposure
of matrix rock in the rock structure.
4.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the one or
more passages are created by passing a fluid through one or more nozzles at a
relatively high velocity and impacting the fluid on the settable foamed material.
5.     A method according to claim 4 wherein the fluid comprises a liquid and/or a
gas, wherein the liquid and/or the gas optionally includes a solvent or breaker.

<removed-date>
                                   1/6
              DRAWINGS
<removed-apn>
                                              10
                              14
                                                  30
                          16
                                                       13
                         15
                                                       11
                          19
                                                        12
                          17
                                             18
                         FIG 1 – PRIOR ART

                       <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
        31
                  15
                                                 2/6
FIG 2
                                    10
             22
                  20
        31

<removed-date>
                               3/6
                                      10
                   21
<removed-apn>
                                                 14
                   20
                                            23
              15                           11
                                                 13
                                                      31
                    31
                         22
                              FIG 3

<removed-date>
                         4/6
<removed-apn>
                                10
                                          21
                                                    13
                                               11
              15
                   22   FIG 4        23

<removed-date>
                          5/6
<removed-apn>
                    10
                                                21
                                       32
              20
               15
                                      12
                                      11
                                 24        25
                         FIG 5

<removed-date>
                          6/6
              10
                                 19
<removed-apn>
                                 13
                                      25
              21
                                      11
               15
                                      12
                    17
                         FIG 6

