                                                 6
              Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method
         Abstract
 5       The present invention discloses anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole
   synthesis        method,          comprises          the        following        steps:
   2,5-dihydroxyimidazole-4-carboxylate, potassium sulfate solution were added to the
   reaction vessel, controlled the stirring speed, raised the temperature, continued the
   reaction; increased the temperature, added dicyclohexylamine solution, added the
10 octacarbonyl cobalt oxide powder in batches, continued to react, reduced the
   temperature, precipitated the solids, washed with sodium nitrate solution for several
   times, washed with cyclohexane solution for several times, recrystallized in the
   tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether solution, dehydrated with dehydration, got the
   finished product ethyl imidazole.

                                                  1
               Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method
         FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention relates to a method for preparing a pharmaceutical
 5 intermediate which belongs to the field of organic synthesis, more particularly, relates
   to anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method.
         GENERAL BACKGROUND
         Ethyl imidazole has a significant anti-clavicular spirochete effect. Rapid
   absorpted by body after oral administration, it is widely distributed in the body, and
10 through the blood-brain barrier into the central nervous system. Most of the existing
   synthesis methods are using the process that 2-mercaptoimidazole-4-carboxylate and
   nitric acid solution as the main reaction to generate ethyl imidazole. This synthesis
   method needs to use nitric acid solution as reactants, the ability of the equipment to
   resist corrosion is higher, the cost of production increases, the process is more
15 complex, the final yield is not high, generally only about 80%. Therefore, it is
   necessary to propose a new synthesis method.
         SUMMARY
         Based on the technical problems of the background technology, the purpose of the
   present invention is to provide anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole
20 synthesis method, comprises the following steps:
         A: 2,5-dihydroxyimidazole-4-carboxylate, potassium sulfate solution were added
   to the reaction vessel, controlled the stirring speed at 210-250 rpm, raised the
   temperature to 30-36 'C, continued the reaction 90-130 min;
         B: increased the temperature to 40-45 'C, added dicyclohexylamine solution,
25 added the octacarbonyl cobalt oxide powder in batches, continued to react for 2-3h,
   reduced the temperature to 10-15 'C, precipitated the solids, washed with sodium
   nitrate solution for several times, washed with cyclohexane solution for several times,
   recrystallized in the tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether solution, dehydrated with
   dehydration, got the finished product ethyl imidazole.
30       Preferably, the potassium sulfate solution has a mass fraction of 1 5 - 2 1 %.

                                                  2
         Preferably, the mass fraction of the dicyclohexylamine solution is 30-36%.
         Preferably, the sodium nitrate solution solution has a mass fraction of 10-17%.
         Preferably, the cyclohexane solution has a mass fraction of 40-45%.
         Preferably, the mass fraction of tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether solution is
 5 80-86%.
         Throughout the reaction process can be the following reaction formula:
                 HO      H
                                    ON    NN                                               H
                                 OH   + C 12H23N  + Co 2(CO)8           b                  N
                         N                                                                 N>
          C2 H5 00C                                                            c2 HsOCcN
         Compared with the synthesis method disclosed in the background art, the
   invention provides anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method,
10 it is unnecessary to use nitric acid solution as reactants, reducing the anti-corrosion
   capability of equipment, reducing intermediate links reaction, decreasing the reaction
   time and improving the reaction yield, at the same time, the present invention provides
   a new synthetic route which has laid a good foundation for further enhancing the yield
   of the reaction.
15       DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Figure 1 is the infrared analysis spectrum of finished product p-nitrobenzoic
   acid.
         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         The following examples with reference to specific embodiments of the present
20 invention are further illustrated:
         Embodiment 1
         Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method, comprises the
   following steps:
         A: 2 mol 2,5-dihydroxyimidazole-4-carboxylate, 1.9L potassium sulfate solution
25 with a mass fraction of 15% were added to the reaction vessel, controlled the stirring
   speed at 210 rpm, raised the temperature to 30 'C, continued the reaction 90 min;

                                                 3
         B: increased the temperature to 40 'C, added 6mol dicyclohexylamine solution
   with a mass fraction of 30%, added 3 mol octacarbonyl cobalt oxide powder in 4 times,
   continued to react for 2h, reduced the temperature to 10 "C,precipitated the solids,
   washed with 1.2L sodium nitrate solution with a mass fraction of 10% for 5 times,
 5 washed with cyclohexane solution with a mass fraction of 40% for 3 times,
   recrystallized in the tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether solution with a mass
   fraction of 80%, dehydrated with anhydrous magnesium sulfate dehydration, got the
   finished product ethyl imidazole 240.8g, yield of 86%.
         Embodiment 2
10       Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method, comprises the
   following steps:
         A: 2 mol 2,5-dihydroxyimidazole-4-carboxylate, 1.9L potassium sulfate solution
   with a mass fraction of 18% were added to the reaction vessel, controlled the stirring
   speed at 230 rpm, raised the temperature to 33 'C, continued the reaction 110 min;
15       B: increased the temperature to 42.5 'C, added 7mol dicyclohexylamine solution
   with a mass fraction of    3 3 %, added 3.5 mol octacarbonyl cobalt oxide powder in 5
   times, continued to react for 2.5h, reduced the temperature to 12.5 0C, precipitated the
   solids, washed with 1.2L sodium nitrate solution with a mass fraction of 13.5% for 6
   times, washed with cyclohexane solution with a mass fraction of 42.5% for 4 times,
20 recrystallized in the tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether solution with a mass
   fraction of 83%, dehydrated with activated alumina dehydration, got the finished
   product ethyl imidazole 254.8g, yield of 9 1 %.
         Embodiment 3
         Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method, comprises the
25 following steps:
         A: 2 mol 2,5-dihydroxyimidazole-4-carboxylate, 1.9L potassium sulfate solution
   with a mass fraction of 21% were added to the reaction vessel, controlled the stirring
   speed at 250 rpm, raised the temperature to 36 'C, continued the reaction 130 min;
         B: increased the temperature to 45 'C, added 8mol dicyclohexylamine solution
30 with a mass fraction of 36%, added 4 mol octacarbonyl cobalt oxide powder in 6 times,

                                                4
   continued to react for 3h, reduced the temperature to 15 'C, precipitated the solids,
   washed with 1.2L sodium nitrate solution with a mass fraction of 17% for 7 times,
   washed with cyclohexane solution with a mass fraction of 45% for 5 times,
   recrystallized in the tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether solution with a mass
 5 fraction of 86%, dehydrated with anhydrous magnesium sulfate dehydration, got the
   finished product ethyl imidazole 263.2g, yield of 94%.
         The embodiments of the present invention are merely preferred embodiments of
   the present invention, but the range of the present invention is not limited this, and
   any person who is familiar with those skilled in the arts, within the technical range of
10 the present invention. It is intended that the technical solution and its inventive
   concept be replaced or modified equivalently with reference to the range of the
   invention.

                                                 5
         Claims
         1. Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method, comprises
   the following steps:
 5       A: 2,5-dihydroxyimidazole-4-carboxylate, potassium sulfate solution were added
   to the reaction vessel, controlled the stirring speed at 210-250 rpm, raised the
   temperature to 30-36 'C, continued the reaction 90-130 min;
         B: increased the temperature to 40-45 'C, added dicyclohexylamine solution,
   added the octacarbonyl cobalt oxide powder in batches, continued to react for 2-3h,
10 reduced the temperature to 10-15 "C, precipitated the solids, washed with sodium
   nitrate solution for several times, washed with cyclohexane solution for several times,
   recrystallized in the tripropylene glycol monomethyl ether solution, dehydrated with
   dehydration, got the finished product ethyl imidazole.
         2. Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method according
15 to claim 1 wherein the potassium sulfate solution has a mass fraction of 15-21%.
         3. Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method according
   to claim 1 wherein the mass fraction of the dicyclohexylamine solution is 30-36%.
         4. Anti-clavicular spirochete drugs ethyl imidazole synthesis method according
   to claim 1 wherein the sodium nitrate solution solution has a mass fraction of 10-17%.

