                                                UU
        ABSTRACT
A table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent table to reduce a height of a plurality of
stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of the plurality of stacked tables having
substantially the same size and configuration, the table comprising: a table top constructed
from molded plastic, the table top comprising: a generally planar upper surface; and a nesting
portion at least partially disposed in the upper surface of the table top; and a frame connected
to the table top, the frame comprising: a generally planar contact surface sized and configured
to contact a generally planar upper surface of an adjacent table when the table is nested with
an adjacent table; and an engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in a nesting
portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested with an adjacent table.

                   1/32
       C14,
CC~j
   coo
             coC\j      C~ j c
        CC'1

                          TABLES WITH NESTING TABLE TOPS
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
<removed-apn>, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.           Most of the
disclosure of that application is also included herein, however, reference may be made to the
specification of Australian Application No. <removed-apn> as filed to gain further understanding
of the invention claimed herein.
                                        BACKGROUND
Field of the Invention
[0002]      The present invention generally relates to structures including at least a portion
constructed from plastic and, in particular, to furniture, such as tables and chairs, that may
include molded plastic components.
Description of Related Art
[0003]      Many different types of tables are well known and used for a variety of different
purposes. For example, conventional tables may include legs that are pivotally attached to a
table top and the legs may be movable between a use position in which the legs extend
outwardly from the table top and a storage position in which the legs are folded against the
table top.   Conventional tables with relatively large table tops and folding legs are often
referred to as "banquet tables" and these tables are frequently used in assembly halls, banquet
halls, convention centers, hotels, schools, churches and other locations where large groups of
people meet.    These types of tables can often be positioned in an assortment of different
configurations and used in a variety of settings.      When the banquet tables are no longer
needed, the table legs can be moved into the storage position and the tables may be more
easily moved or stored.
[0004]      Because most banquet tables have a length between six and ten feet and a width
between three and four feet, the required storage area for such tables is quite large even with
the legs in the collapsed position. This large storage area may be problematic for businesses

or facilities such as hotels, schools and churches because a considerable number of these
tables may have to be stored.
[0005]       Conventional tables often include table tops constructed from materials such as
wood, particle board or metal. Table tops constructed from wood, particle board or metal,
however, are often relatively heavy and this may make the table awkward or difficult to move.
Table tops constructed from wood or metal are also relatively expensive and these types of
table tops must generally be treated or finished before use.         For example, table tops
constructed from wood must generally be sanded and painted, and metal table tops must be
formed into the desired shape and painted. In addition, because these wooden and metal table
tops are relatively heavy, that may increase the cost of shipping and transportation of the
tables. The weight of the table top may make the tables more difficult to move and store.
[0006]       In order to decrease the weight of conventional tables, table tops may be
constructed from relatively light-weight materials such as plastic. Disadvantageously, table
tops constructed from light-weight materials may require large reinforcing members or other
structural parts such as braces, brackets, support members and the like to strengthen the table
top. While these additional parts may increase the strength of the table top, the added parts
may also increase the weight of the table. These additional parts may result in increased
manufacturing costs and require more time to assemble the table. In addition, extra fasteners
may be required to assemble and connect these parts to the table, which may require extra
time and labor during the manufacturing process. The additional parts and fasteners may
further increase the cost of the table and make the table more difficult to manufacture.
Moreover, these additional parts and fasteners may have sharp edges that can injure a user' s
legs or arms.
[0007]       Conventional tables may include a frame that is connected to the table top. The
frame may include a pair of side rails that are connected to sides of the table top using
fasteners. Multiple fasteners may be required to securely connect the frame to the table top
and transmit forces applied to the table top to the frame. Undesirably, when a large load or

force is applied to some known tables, the frame may bend, deform and/or detach from the
table top. In addition, the fasteners used to connect the frame to the table top may detach or
separate from the table top. The fasteners may even damage and tear through the table top if
the load or force exceeds a certain amount. Further, the frames or fasteners of some known
tables may collapse in some circumstances.
[0008]       The table tops of some known tables may undesirably bend or deform if a
relatively large load or force is applied to a portion of the table top. For instance, if a load or
force is applied to an outer portion of a conventional table top, that portion of the table top
may undesirably move or bend.          In particular, that portion of the table top may deflect
downwardly when a load or force is applied to the upper surface of the table top.
[0009]       The large size of conventional banquet tables may require a large amount of
storage space for manufacturers, retailers and consumers. The large amount of storage space
may be particularly problematic for manufacturers, retailers and consumers that have a need
to store, transport and/or display large numbers of tables.
                                        BRIEF SUMMARY
[0010]       A need therefore exists for a table that eliminates or diminishes the above-described
disadvantages and problems.
[0011]       The invention provides a table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent table
to reduce a height of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of the
plurality of stacked tables having substantially the same size and configuration, the table
comprising: a table top constructed from molded plastic, the table top comprising: a generally
planar upper surface; and a nesting portion at least partially disposed in the upper surface of
the table top; and a frame connected to the table top, the frame comprising: a generally planar
contact surface sized and configured to contact a generally planar upper surface of an adjacent
table when the table is nested with an adjacent table; and an engaging portion sized and
configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested
with an adjacent table.

                                                 -r
[0012]       The invention also provides a table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent
table to reduce a height of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of
the plurality of stacked tables having substantially the same size and configuration, the table
comprising: a table top constructed from molded plastic, the table top comprising: a generally
planar upper surface;a nesting portion at least partially disposed in the generally planar upper
surface of the table top; and a lip extending downwardly relative to the generally planar upper
surface of the table top; and a frame connected to the table top, the frame comprising:a
generally planar contact surface sized and configured to contact a generally planar upper
surface of an adjacent table when the table is nested with an adjacent table; and a frame
engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table
when the table is nested with an adjacent table.
[0013]       Also disclosed herein is a table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent table
to reduce a height of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of the
plurality of stacked tables having substantially the same size and configuration, the table
comprising: a table top constructed from molded plastic, the table top comprising: an upper
surface; a sidewall; a nesting portion at least partially formed in the upper surface and the
sidewall, the nesting portion disposed at least proximate a portion of an upper perimeter of the
table top; a lower surface; a lip extending downwardly from the lower surface; and an
engaging portion formed by a lower portion of the lip, the engaging portion of the lip sized
and configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is
nested with an adjacent table; and a frame connected to the table top, the frame comprising; a
first side rail disposed at least proximate a first side of the table top; a first frame engaging
portion of the first side rail sized and configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of the
adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table; a second side rail disposed at
least proximate a second side of the table top; and a second frame engaging portion of the
second side rail sized and configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of the adjacent table
when the table is nested with an adjacent table.

[0014]      One aspect described herein is a table that may include a table top and one or more
legs sized and configured to support the table top above a surface such as the floor or ground.
The table may also include a frame and legs connected to the frame.            The legs may be
movable relative to the table top between a collapsed or storage position and an extended or
use position. In particular, the legs may be pivoted between a collapsed position in which the
legs are disposed at least proximate a lower surface of the table top and an extended position
in which the legs extend outwardly from the table top. If desired, the legs may at least
partially contact or abut the lower surface of the table top when the legs are in the collapsed
position. In addition, the lower surface of the table top may include one or more recesses
sized and configured to receive at least a portion of the legs when the legs are in the collapsed
position. Advantageously, this may decrease the amount of space required to store and/or
transport the table.
[0015]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may be relatively lightweight,
which may allow the table to be more easily transported and moved. For example, the table
may include a lightweight table top and that may reduce the overall weight of the table. The
table may also be constructed from a limited number of parts or components, which may
allow the weight of the table to be reduced. Further, a limited number of fasteners may be
required to assemble the table, which may also reduce the weight of the table. The limited
number of fasteners may also allow the table to be more quickly and easily assembled.
[0016]      Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a table top
constructed from plastic. For example, the table top may be constructed from molded plastic
using blow-molding, injection molding, rotary molding or other suitable molding processes.
The molded plastic table top may provide a relatively rigid, high-strength structure that is
capable of withstanding repeated use and wear. The molded plastic table top may also be
relatively quickly, easily and efficiently manufactured. In addition, the molded plastic table
top may be readily molded into the desired size and shape, such as a utility table, card table,
personal table and the like.     The molded plastic table top may be relatively lightweight

because, for instance, it may include a hollow interior portion that is formed during the
molding process.      The molded plastic table top may further include two opposing walls,
which may be spaced apart by a generally constant and/or predetermined distance, and that
may help increase the strength and rigidity of the table top. Additionally, the molded plastic
table top may be generally weather resistant and temperature insensitive. Further, the molded
plastic table top may not corrode, rust or otherwise deteriorate over an extended period of
time, which may help create a long-lasting table.
[0017]      Still another aspect described herein is a table top that may be constructed from
molded plastic and one or more features may be integrally formed during the molding process
as part of a unitary, one-piece construction. For example, the molded plastic table top may
include one or more depressions (also referred to as "tack-offs") and the depressions may be
designed to increase the strength of the table top and/or interconnect the spaced apart walls.
The depressions may also be sized and configured to create a structure with particular
characteristics and qualities, such as a table top with generally uniform strength, rigidity
and/or structural integrity. The molded plastic table top may also include other features such
as structures that increase the strength, rigidity and/or torsion resistance of at least a portion of
the table top.
[0018]      Still yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include components
that can be quickly and easily manufactured. For example, the legs and/or side rails of the
frame may be relatively straightforward to manufacture. In addition, the legs and/or side rails
of the frame may be quickly and easily attached to the table top, which may reduce
manufacturing costs. The table may also be constructed from only a few parts and a limited
number of fasteners may be required, which may allow the table to be quickly and easily
assembled by the manufacturer, retailer and/or consumer.
[0019]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may facilitate stacking of a plurality
of tables. Advantageously, the stacked tables may be disposed in an aligned configuration.
For example, one table may be easily aligned with an adjacent table, which may facilitate

shipping, storage and/or display of multiple tables. Significantly, the aligned tables may be
disposed vertically, horizontally, or at suitable angles depending, for instance, if the tables are
to be shipped, stored, displayed, or the like. If desired, the stacked tables may lock or have a
tendency to stay together. For instance, a friction or interference fit between adjacent stacked
tables may tend to maintain the tables in a stacked configuration.          If the tables have a
penchant to stay together, this may help reduce damage to the tables during shipping, storage
and/or display.
[0020]      Still another aspect described herein is a table that may be nested with an adjacent
table to reduce space. Significantly, the nested tables may allow the tables to be stored in a
smaller area, which may substantially reduce storage and shipping costs. The nested tables
may also allow a greater number of tables to be stored in the same area as conventional tables
that do not nest together. In addition, the nested tables may help protect the tables from
damage. For example, because an upper portion of a table may be disposed within a lower
portion of an adjacent table, that may help prevent the table from being damaged. The nested
tables may further have table tops that are the same or substantially the same size as
conventional    tables,  which may indicate        the tables   have similar appearances        and
characteristics such as strength, structural integrity and the like. The nested tables may also
have the same general footprint as a conventional table, but the nested tables may allow
significantly more tables to be disposed on a pallet or in a shipping container, and/or allow the
same number of tables to be disposed in a significantly smaller space.
[0021]      Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may be nested with an adjacent
table in a stacked configuration. Advantageously, the nested tables may have a significantly
reduced height in comparison to conventional tables that do not nest together. For example,
known tables may have a table top with a height of about 2.125 inches and thirty (30) of these
known tables could be stacked with a height of at least 63.75 inches.              An exemplary
embodiment of a nested table may have a table top with a thickness of about 2.0 inches, but
may overlap with an adjacent table by about 0.25 inches so the height of the nested table may

                                                 0
only be about 1.75 inches when nested with another table. Thus, the height of thirty nested
tables may be only about 52.75 inches because adjacent tables may nest together.                In
particular, because a portion of a table may be disposed within or overlap with an adjacent
table in the nested configuration, that may allow the overall height of the nested tables to be
decreased. Therefore, in this exemplary configuration, the height of the table in the nested
configuration may only be about 1.75 inches.        Consequently, the nested tables may have a
reduction in height of between about 0.375 and 0.25 inches per stacked table in comparison to
previously known tables.         This may allow more tables to be disposed in a stacked
configuration, which may greatly increase the number of tables that can be stacked on a pallet
or shelf, or disposed in a shipping container or truck.
[0022]       Still yet another aspect described herein is a table that may be nested together with
an adjacent table to reduce the overall height of the stacked tables.             For example, a
conventional table may have a blow-molded plastic table top with a height of about 2.0 inches
and a frame with a height of about 1.625 inches.        The height of the frame for this type of
conventional table is more than eighty percent (80%) of the height of the table top in order to
create a table with the needed strength and rigidity. The frame for this type of conventional
table may have a rectangular cross-sectional configuration, which may help create a beam
type structure with two opposing walls that are separated by a generally constant distance. It
was known that a decrease in the height of the frame may result in a decrease in strength of
the table. It was also known that a decrease in the width of the frame may allow the table to
undesirably twist and/or bend. In contrast to these known tables, the nested tables may have
the same general height and appearance as a conventional table, and the same general strength
and structural integrity as a conventional table, but the tables may nest together. The similar
size and footprint of the tables may allow consumers to immediately deduce the nested tables
have the same general strength, rigidity and torsion resistance as conventional tables. The
nested tables, however, significantly decrease the height of two or more stacked tables.
Because the nested tables may have a significant decrease in height in the nested

configuration, this may result in considerable space savings that may be very important to the
manufacturer during the manufacturing and shipping process; to the retailer when storing or
displaying multiple tables; and/or to a consumer purchasing, transporting or storing more than
one table.
[0023]      A further aspect described herein is a table that may be sized and configured to be
nested such that the height of the nested tables is decreased by more than ten percent (10%).
For example, the height of a single table may be about 2.0 inches. When the table is nested
with another table, the height of the table may be about 1.75 inches because a portion of the
tables are nested together. In this embodiment, the nested tables result in a decrease in height
of each stacked table by about 0.25 inches.     Therefore, the height of a table in the stacked
configuration may be about twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) less than in the non-stacked
configuration.    Advantageously, this may allow tables to be more efficiently stored,
transported and displayed because less space may be required. In another example, a standard
pallet or shipping configuration may include twenty-one (21) conventional tables, but the
tables with the nesting features disclosed herein may allow twenty-seven (27) or twenty-nine
(29) tables to be disposed on a standard pallet or in a typical shipping configuration.        If
twenty-seven tables are disposed on a pallet or in a standard shipping configuration rather
than twenty-one tables, then approximately twenty-eight percent (28%) more tables can be
stored, transported or displayed.    If twenty-nine tables rather than twenty-one tables are
disposed on a pallet or in a standard shipping configuration, then a thirty-eight percent (38%)
increase in the number of tables may be realized.          Advantageously, this may result in
significant savings and cost advantages because, for example, considerably more tables may
be stored, transported or displayed in the same area; or the same number of tables may be
stored, transported or displayed in an area that is at least twenty-five percent (25%) smaller.
When large volumes of tables are being transported, such as in a standard or high-capacity
shipping container, this may result in sizeable cost savings and advantages.

                                                IV
[0024]      A still further aspect described herein is a table that may be nested with an
adjacent table such that the height of a nested table is decreased by approximately twenty
percent (20%). For example, the height of a conventional blow-molded plastic table top is
typically 2.0 or more inches. The table top height of a nested table may be about 2.0 inches
when it is not nested with another table, but the height of the table may only be between about
1.5 and 1.75 inches when nested with another table. This may result in a significant reduction
in height between twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) and twenty-five percent (25%) when
two or more tables are nested together. In particular, if the nested tables are decreased in
height by about twenty percent (20%), then the tables may have a height of about 1.6 inches
in the nested configuration.
[0025]      Another further aspect described herein is a table that may include a receiving or
nesting portion, such as a groove, channel or recessed portion, in an upper portion of the table
top sized and configured to receive a portion of an adjacent table to facilitate nesting of the
tables. For example, the receiving portion may be disposed about an upper surface and/or
outer perimeter of the table top. In greater detail, the receiving portion may have a generally
L-shaped configuration with a lower surface generally parallel to the upper surface of the
table top and a side wall generally perpendicular to the upper surface of the table top. A
portion of an adjacent table may be disposed in the receiving portion to allow the tables to be
nested together. In particular, a portion of the frame, such as a projection or flange, and/or a
portion of the table top, such as an edge or corner, may be disposed in the receiving portion.
In greater detail, a portion of the side rails of the frame may be disposed in the receiving
portion along the sides of an adjacent, nested table. A lower portion of a lip and/or the
comers of the table top may be disposed in the receiving portion of the adjacent, nested table.
[0026]      Yet another further aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame
sized and configured to facilitate stacking of the tables. For example, the frame may include
an upper portion generally aligned with a lower portion of the table top. The upper portion of
the frame may be disposed in a frame receiving portion in the lower portion of the table top

and this may help maintain the frame in the desired position. The frame may also include a
lower portion sized and configured to contact an upper portion of an adjacent, stacked table.
The frame may further include an engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in the
receiving portion of an adjacent, nested table.         The engaging portion may include a
downwardly extending flange or projection sized and configured to fit within a receiving
portion, such as a groove or cutout, of the adjacent, nested table. Advantageously, the frame
may directly support at least a portion of the weight and/or forces applied to the tables in the
nested configuration, which may help prevent damage to the tables. For example, when the
tables are stacked in a horizontal configuration, the frame of one table may contact the
adjacent, stacked table in a manner that allows the stacked tables to support a significant
amount of weight without damage to the tables. This may allow ten, twenty, thirty or more
tables to be disposed in a stacked configuration without damaging any of the tables.           In
addition, if the engaging portion of the frame is disposed in a receiving portion of an adjacent
table, that may facilitate stacking, storing and/or shipping of the tables because that may help
maintain the tables in the stacked configuration and ensure the weight is properly and/or
evenly distributed.
[0027]      Still yet another further aspect described herein is a table that may be sized and
configured to nest with an adjacent, stacked table in which a weight or load is supported in
multiple areas, in different locations and/or by different surfaces.        Advantageously, the
multiple contact areas may allow stresses and forces to be disposed over a larger area and that
may help prevent damage to the tables.        For example, the table may include one or more
contact areas sized and configured to contact the upper surface of the adjacent table top. In
greater detail, the side rails of the frame may include a lower portion, such as a planar contact
surface or load bearing surface, disposed generally parallel to an upper surface of the table
top.   In addition, the side rails of the frame may include an engaging portion, such as a
downwardly extending flange or projection, sized and configured to be disposed in a
receiving portion of the adjacent, stacked table. A lower portion of the flange may contact a

lower surface of the receiving portion, which may be another load bearing surface.
Additionally, the table may include other portions, such as comers or lips, sized and
configured to be disposed in the receiving potion of the adjacent, stacked table. For instance,
the corners and/or lips may include a compression edge that contacts the lower surface of the
receiving portion, which may also be load bearing surfaces. When two or more tables are
nested together, the multiple contact areas may facilitate stacking of the tables without
marring or otherwise damaging the tables.
[0028]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may include a table top with one or
more portions formed from compression molded plastic.           For example, a portion of the
comers    and/or lip may be compression molded during the blow-molding process.
Advantageously, the compression molded corners and/or lip may help create stronger, more
rigid and/or more impact resistant structures, which may increase the durability and
usefulness of the table.    Significantly, compression molding may allow a portion of the
comers and/or lip to be relatively thin because there is little or no gap or space between the
walls of the compression molded plastic structure. The compression molded corners and/or
lip may also be sized and configured to fit within a receiving portion of an adjacent, stacked
table, which may facilitate stacking and nesting of the tables.       The compression molded
portions may further be sized and configured to contact a portion of the frame. For instance, a
compression molded portion may be disposed along at least a portion of the lip and the side
rail of the frame may contact or abut the compression molded portion, which may help
position and maintain the frame in the desired position.
[0029]      Still another aspect described herein is a table that may include a compression
edge. For example, if the table top is constructed from blow-molded plastic, the compression
edge may be formed by the outer wall being folded onto itself such that the compression edge
has a thickness approximately equal to twice the outer wall thickness. The compression edge
may be disposed about all or a portion of the perimeter of the table top, such as the edges
and/or comers. Advantageously, the compression edge may help provide increased strength,

stiffness, structural integrity and/or impact resistance.     The compression edge may also be
sized and configured to be at least partially disposed in the receiving portion of an adjacent,
nested table.
[0030]      Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a compression edge
with different sizes. For example, the corners of the table top may include a compression
edge that has a different size than a compression edge extending along the sides and/or ends
of the table top. In particular, the table top may include a downwardly extending lip and the
corners may include a compression edge that has a height generally equal to or greater than a
majority of the height of the lip. The comers may also include a compression edge with a
height generally or at least substantially equal to the height of the lip. The sides of the table
top could include a compression edge that is smaller than the compression edge in the comers.
For instance, the sides of the table top could include a compression edge with a height that is
generally equal to or less than the height of the lip.       The height of the compression edge
disposed along the sides and/or ends of the table top may also be significantly smaller than the
height of the lip.     In an exemplary embodiment, the compression edge disposed along the
sides of the table top may have a height between about 0.125 inches and about 0.25 inches,
and the corners may include a compression edge with a height between about 0.25 inches and
about 0.5 inches. The compression edge along the ends of the table top may have a height
between about 0.125 inches and about 0.5 inches. Thus, the compression edge in the comers
and/or ends of the table top may be two times or more times larger than the compression edge
along the sides. The compression edges in the comers may be much larger, if desired, such as
three, four, five or more times the height of compression edge along the sides and/or ends.
[0031]       Still yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a handle or grip
disposed in one or both ends of the table top. The handle may consist of a recess or opening
in the downwardly extending lip of a table top and the handle may be integrally formed with
the table top as part of a unitary, one-piece construction. Preferably, the handle is sized and
configured to facilitate moving and transporting the table. In addition, the handle may assist

                                                 1 -r
in separating the tables in a stacked configuration. The table top may further include recesses
or openings that may allow a portion of the frame to be disposed along the sides of the table
top. For example, the sides of the table top may include openings that allow at least a portion
of the frame to be exposed. Therefore, the ends of table may include openings in the lip that
form the handles and openings in the sides that allow a portion of the frame to be exposed.
Other portions of the frame may be inset and/or disposed inwardly from an outer perimeter of
the table top, which may help protect the frame from damage.
[0032]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame with a first
portion disposed along one side of the table top and a second portion disposed along a second
side of the table top. In particular, the frame may include a first side rail disposed along a first
side of the table top and a second side rail disposed along a second side of the table top. The
side rails may extend along the length and/or width of the table top and the side rails may help
support the table top and/or facilitate connection of the legs to the table top. Each side rail
may include a body and the body may be elongated, have one or more engagement surfaces,
and may be constructed from relatively strong materials such as metal. In greater detail, the
body of the side rails may be disposed at least proximate a downwardly extending lip of the
table top and the body of the side rails may be disposed generally vertically relative to the
table top. The side rails may also include an upper portion and a lower portion. For example,
the upper portion of the side rail may include a flange that extends inwardly at an angle, such
as a right angle, to the body. The upper portion of the side rail may also include a second
flange, such as an inner flange, that may extend downwardly.           This inner flange may be
disposed at least proximate the end of the upper portion of the side rail and it may be disposed
generally parallel to the body of the side rail. The lower portion of the side rail may include a
flange that extends outwardly towards an outer portion of the table top. The lower portion
may also include a downwardly extending portion, such as a flange or projection, which may
be disposed perpendicular to the lower portion of the side rail. If desired, the downwardly
extending portion may have twice or double the thickness in comparison to other portions of

the frame. In particular, the downwardly extending portion may be folded or bent back upon
itself and include an upwardly extending portion sized and configured to contact a portion of
the table top, such as a lower surface of the downwardly extending lip.
[0033]       Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a table top with one
or more receiving portions sized and configured to receive a portion of the frame.            For
instance, the table top may include a frame receiving portion sized and configured to receive
an upper portion of the side rail of the frame. In addition, the table top may include a sidewall
sized and configured to contact the body of the side rail and a lip sized and configured to
contact the lower portion of the side rail. If desired, an inner wall of the lip may form at least
a portion of the sidewall and a lower portion of the lip may contact the lower portion of the
frame. Advantageously, the table top may be sized and configured to help position and/or
maintain the side rail in a desired position. Additionally, the table top may be sized and
configured to help prevent the side rail from bending, twisting or otherwise moving, which
may help create a stronger and sturdier table.
[0034]       Still another aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame with one or
more generally L-shaped and/or U-shaped sections. For instance, the side rails of the frame
may include an upper portion with a generally inverted U-shaped configuration and a lower
portion with a generally U-shaped configuration. The upper portion of the frame may be
sized and configured to be disposed in a frame receiving portion in a lower or underneath
portion of the table top. The lower portion of the frame may be sized and configured to
contact an adjacent table in a stacked, nested configuration. In particular, the lower portion of
the frame may include a lower surface sized and configured to contact an upper surface of
adjacent table in the nested configuration. The lower portion of the frame may further include
an engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in a receiving portion of an adjacent
table in the nested configuration.
[0035]       Still yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame that
facilitates nesting and stacking of a plurality of tables. The frame may also help support a

downwardly extending lip of the table top. For example, the frame may support an inner
surface, lower surface and/or outer portion of the lip. In addition, the frame may provide
multiple contact areas, such as a planar engagement surface and an engaging portion or
flange, which may allow a load to be distributed over multiple areas when multiple tables are
nested together. This may allow more tables to be disposed in a stacked configuration and/or
help prevent damage to the tables.
[0036]       A further aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame with an
inwardly disposed portion and an outwardly disposed portion. For example, the frame may
include a first portion disposed towards an inner portion of the table top and a second portion
disposed towards an outer portion of the table top. The inwardly disposed portion may be at
least partially or substantially disposed inwardly from a downwardly extending lip of the table
top while the outwardly disposed portion may contact and/or enclose at least a portion of the
lip.
[0037]       Another further aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame and a
portion of the frame may be disposed along an edge or perimeter of the table top.           For
example, the table top may include a lip with an opening and an outer portion of the frame
may be disposed in or at least proximate the opening.       Advantageously, this may allow a
portion of the frame to be exposed and the exposed portion of the frame may indicate to
consumers the table is strong, high-strength and durable. The exposed portion of the frame
may be generally aligned with and/or spaced inwardly from an outer perimeter of the table
top. The exposed portion of the frame may also be generally aligned with a lower portion of
the table top, such as a lower surface of the corners, lip and/or ends. In greater detail, an
opening may be disposed in the lip along the sides of the table top and the exposed portion of
the frame may be disposed in and/or generally aligned with the openings. The lower portion
of the frame may be aligned with a lowermost portion of the table top or it could extend
outwardly more than other portions of the table top. Thus, in this configuration, the lower
portion of the frame may form the lowermost portion of the table top. The exposed frame

                                                   I /
may also create a table with improved aesthetics and/or style. For instance, the exposed frame
may provide a color contrast with the table top. That is, the table top may be one or more
colors and the frame may have one or more different colors to create a table with a stylized
appearance or an aesthetically pleasing design.
[0038]      Yet another further aspect described herein is a table that may include a table top
with openings to allow a portion of a frame to be exposed and/or disposed proximate a
perimeter of the table top. For example, the table top may include one or more openings that
allow at least a portion of the frame to be exposed and disposed at least proximate the
perimeter of the table top. These openings may extend along at least a majority of the length
of the table top. The table top may also include one or more openings for a handle in the ends
of the table top. The openings along the sides of the table top are preferably much larger than
the openings in the ends of the table top, by a factor such as five, ten, twenty or more times
the length of the opening for the handle.
[0039]      A still further aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame that
contacts,   engages     and/or supports a lip and/or       outer perimeter     of the table top.
Advantageously, if the frame is disposed along the outer edges of the table top, then the frame
may provide increased support for the edges or extremities of the table top. In addition, if a
portion of the frame is disposed below or proximate the lip, then the frame may help prevent
the table top from being damaged. For example, the frame may absorb impacts or forces that
otherwise may damage the table top.
[0040]       Still yet another further aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame
with an engaging portion, such as a protrusion or flange, which facilitates nesting and
stacking of the tables.       The protrusion may be generally aligned with and/or disposed
proximate a lower portion of the lip, such as a compression edge. Because the protrusion and
compression edge may have double wall thicknesses, this may help prevent the table from
being damaged.       In greater detail, the protrusion may be formed by bending or folding the
frame back upon itself so that it includes two adjacent, parallel walls and a rounded end. The

                                                 10
compression edge may include an inner wall and an outer wall that are adjacent, parallel and
preferably in contact. If desired, the protrusion and compression edge may include lower
surfaces that are generally aligned and disposed in the same plane.          Advantageously, the
double wall thicknesses of the frame and lip may help prevent that table top from being
damaged. Additionally, the double wall thicknesses may promote stacking and nesting of the
tables because, for example, it may allow a strong, thin, resilient and/or damage resistant
portion of a table to be disposed in a receiving portion of an adjacent table.
[0041]       Another aspect described herein is a frame for a table that may be less likely to
undesirably bend or deform. For example, the frame may have a configuration that resists
twisting or rotating when a load or force is applied to the frame. In addition, the frame may
provide more balanced loading on the table when a load or force is applied. For instance, the
frame could include multiple bends or angles, such as a plurality of right or 900 angles.
Advantageously, the multiple angles may help increase the strength of the frame, resist
twisting or rotating when a load or force is applied to the frame, and/or provide more balanced
loading. The frame could also include one or more portions that are bent back or folded with
a 1800 angle such that portions of the frame have twice the thickness. This may also help
increase the strength of the frame, resist twisting or rotating when a load or force is applied to
the frame, and/or provide more balanced loading.
[0042]       Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame at least
partially disposed in one or more receiving portions in the table top. The table top may also
include one or more receiving portions that are sized and configured to receive other
components of the table such as cross members, cross bars and the like. For example, the
table top may include receiving portions that are sized and configured to receive an upper
portion of a support structure. The table top may also include receiving portions that are sized
and configured to receive a portion of the legs when the legs are in the collapsed position. In
addition, the frame may include one or more openings that are sized and configured to
facilitate attachment of the legs to the table. For instance, the frame may include openings

                                                 I[9/
that are sized and configured to receive the ends of a cross member and/or upper portion of a
support structure. Depending upon the shape and arrangement of the frame, the openings in
the frame may be circular or non-circular configuration. By extending the ends of the cross
tube through openings in the frame, the legs may be securely connected to the table top.
[0043]       Still another aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame and leg
assemblies that are constructed from relatively strong and durable materials such as metal,
steel and the like. It will be appreciated, however, the frame and leg assemblies may be
constructed from other materials with suitable properties and characteristics. In addition, the
table, frame, leg assemblies and the like may have a variety of other suitable shapes, sizes,
configurations and arrangements depending, for example, upon the intended use of the table.
[0044]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame and the frame
may include side rails with a generally V-shaped cross-section or configuration. In greater
detail, the V-shaped side rails may include first and second portions that are generally
disposed between a 300 and 90' angle, such as about a 450 or 60' angle. The first and second
portions of the side rails may also be disposed at different angles depending, for example,
upon the intended use of the table.
[0045]      Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame with side
rails that have different lengths. For example, an upper portion of the side rail may be larger
than a lower portion of the side rail. In particular, an inwardly extending portion of the upper
portion of the side rail may be larger than an outwardly extending portion of the lower portion
of the side rail. Additionally, the ends of the side rails may have different configurations. For
instance, the end of the upper portion of the side rail may be downwardly extending relative to
a lower surface of the table top and the end of the lower portion of the side rail may be
upwardly extending. In addition, a portion of the side rail may have twice the thickness
compared to other portions of the side rail. Advantageously, the increased thickness may
provide greater strength, stiffness, impact resistance, and/or rigidity, and it may be created by
folding or bending a portion of the frame back upon itself to double the thickness.

[0046]       Still another aspect described herein is a frame for a table that may include an
engaging portion with a rounded or curved end. The rounded end may have a generally
circular configuration and it may prevent the engaging portion from having an exposed sharp
edge. The engaging portion may be sized and configured to be disposed in a receiving portion
of an adjacent, stacked table. For example, the rounded end of the engaging portion may be
sized and configured to the receiving portion, which may create a relatively large area of
contact between the adjacent, stacked tables.
[0047]       Still yet another further aspect described herein is a frame for a table that may
include a side rail that is at least partially exposed. For example, an outer portion or edge of
the side rail may be generally spaced apart from other portions the table top and not connected
to other structures. This exposed portion of the side rail may be generally aligned with an
outer portion of the table top or it may be inset or inwardly disposed from the outer perimeter
of the table top, which may help protect the table from damage. The exposed portion of the
side rail may also be disposed at an angle relative to an outer wall of the table top. In
addition, the exposed portion of the frame may extend inwardly or outwardly relative to a
lower surface of the table top and the exposed portion of the side rail may be generally
aligned with and/or spaced inwardly from the bottom or lower surface of the lip.
[0048]       A further aspect described herein is a table that may include a table top with
receiving portions sized and configured to receive at least a portion of the frame.          For
example, the table top may include a receiving portion, such as a groove or channel, which is
sized and configured to receive at least a portion of the frame. In particular, the receiving
portions may include walls that are sized and configured to contact or abut corresponding
portions of the frame. For instance, the table top may have a generally U-shaped receiving
portion with walls that are sized and configured to contact and abut corresponding portions of
the frame. On the other hand, the receiving portions could have other suitable configurations,
such as generally V-shaped, that are sized and configured to contact and abut the side walls of
a generally V-shaped frame. If desired, the generally V-shaped groove may include a first

side that is shorter than a second side, which may allow a portion of the frame to be exposed
and/or unsupported.     The second side of the generally V-shaped groove may be at least
partially formed by one or more protuberances or portions that extend downwardly from the
lower surface of the table top.
[0049]       Another further aspect described herein is a table that may include a frame with
side rails that have a generally symmetric configuration. For example, the side rails may have
a generally Z-shaped configuration with an inner portion disposed proximate the lower
portion of the table top and an outer portion disposed proximate an outer edge of the table top.
In greater detail, the inner portion may be sized and configured to be at least partially
disposed in a receiving portion in the lower portion of the table top. The outer portion of the
side rail may include a portion that is generally aligned with and/or parallel to the lip. In
particular, the outer portion of the side rail may be disposed parallel to a lower portion of the
lip. The lowermost portion of the side rail may include a generally planar surface sized and
configured to contact an adjacent table in a stacked configuration. The lowermost portion of
the side rail may be spaced inwardly from the perimeter of the table top and a portion of the
lip, such as a compression edge, may extend beyond the lowermost portion of the side rail.
[0050]       Another aspect described herein is a frame that may be directly connected to a
table top. For example, the frame may include one or more key-shaped openings and the
table top may include one or more corresponding engaging portions. The engaging portions
may be designed to be inserted into a larger portion of the key-shaped openings and then
moved or slid into a smaller portion of the openings to help connect the frame to the table top.
In addition, the engaging portions may be independent of and spaced apart from other
structures of the table top and may allow the frame to be directly connected to a table top at
several discrete locations. The engaging portions may also be formed in a frame receiving
portion of the table top, such as the sidewall of a groove. The engaging portions may include
a receiving portion, such as an undercut, and a portion of the frame may be disposed in the
receiving portion to help connect the frame to the table top. Significantly, this may allow the

frame to be directly connected to the table top and it may allow the frame to be connected to
the table top without requiring any additional structures or components, such as fasteners.
One or more fasteners, however, may be used to help prevent the frame from moving relative
to the table top and/or help maintain the engagement of the frame and the engaging portion.
Advantageously, if the frame is connected to the table top by the engaging portions, then the
fasteners may not be used to primarily secure the frame to the table top. Instead, the fasteners
may simply prevent the frame from moving relative to the table top. Accordingly, fewer
fasteners may be required and the fasteners may be less likely to damage the table top because
the fasteners may not be load bearing or supporting members. In addition, if the table top is
constructed from molded plastic, then the engaging portions may be integrally formed during
the molding process as part of a unitary, one-piece structure. One or more fasteners or other
suitable structures, however, could be used to connect the frame and the table top.
[0051]      Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may be quickly and easily
manufactured and assembled. For example, the side rails of the frame may be disposed in
frame receiving portions formed in the table top and engaging portions may be disposed in
openings in the frame. The frame may then be slid or moved so the engaging portions engage
the frame to connect the frame to the table top. One or more fasteners may then be used to
prevent the frame from moving relative to the table top. Advantageously, this may allow the
table to be shipped in an unassembled configuration and consumers may be able to assemble
the table, which may decrease manufacturing and shipping costs.
[0052]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may include a table top with a
plurality of depressions. The plurality of depressions may be closely spaced and may cover at
least a majority, substantially all, virtually all or all of a lower surface of the table top. The
plurality of depressions may be disposed in a generally uniform pattern in which the
depressions have generally the same size, shape configuration, orientation and arrangement.
In addition, at least a majority of the depressions in the plurality of depressions may be spaced
apart from one or more adjacent depressions by a generally consistent or uniform distance.

Advantageously, the depressions may help create a table top with increased strength, rigidity
and/or structural integrity. In addition, if the depressions in the plurality of depressions are
generally uniformly spaced and disposed in a generally uniform pattern, that may help create
a table top with generally uniform characteristics.
[0053]      Yet another aspect described herein is a table top that may include strengthening
members, such as depressions, ribs, channels and the like, disposed proximate and/or adjacent
structural support members or features of the table. For example, the table top may include a
plurality of strengthening members disposed proximate and/or adjacent the frame. In greater
detail, the table top may include one or more frame receiving portions that are sized and
configured to receive the side rails of the frame and the frame receiving portions may include
a plurality of strengthening members. When the frame is connected to the table top, the frame
may cover all or a portion of the strengthening members in the frame receiving portion. The
strengthening members in the frame receiving portions may be disposed in different
arrangements and/or configurations, which may be used to create areas of increased strength
and/or different characteristics. For instance, the strengthening members may be disposed in
first and second configurations.       In particular, the first configuration of strengthening
members may be generally aligned in a first direction, such as along the length of the table
top, while the second configuration of strengthening members may be generally aligned in a
second direction, such as along a width of the table top.            The first configuration of
strengthening members may provide greater strength in one direction or location and the
second configuration of strengthening members may provide greater strength in a second
direction or location. Because the strengthening members can provide additional strength in
different directions and/or locations, that may allow relatively strong, sturdy, stiff and/or rigid
structures to be constructed.
[0054]      A further aspect described herein is a table top that may include strengthening
members with different configurations and/or disposed in different locations to prevent or
minimize potential points of weakness, stress concentrations and the like. For example, the

strengthening members may be sized and configured to support areas of the table top disposed
outside of the frame. The strengthening members may also be sized and configured to help
prevent the table top from bending, collapsing or deflecting when a load or force is applied to
the table top.     Further, the strengthening members may be sized and configured to help
prevent the table top from twisting or rotating relative to the frame. Advantageously, because
the strengthening members may help support portions of the table top disposed above the
frame and/or the edges; a strong, sturdy and well-supported table may be created. This may
further facilitate stacking and nesting of the tables because, for example, the lower tables in
the stack of tables may be unlikely to be damaged by the weight of the stacked tables.
[0055]       Still another aspect described herein is a table top that may include one or more
strengthening members disposed between and/or connecting a frame receiving portion and an
outer portion of the table top such as a lip. In particular, one or more strengthening members
may connect the frame receiving portion and a portion of the lip, such as an inner wall or
sidewall of the lip. In greater detail, one or more strengthening members may be at least
partially disposed in the upper surface and/or sidewalls of the frame receiving portion and in
at least a portion of a sidewall of the lip. Because the strengthening members may connect
the frame receiving portion and the lip, the strengthening members may increase the strength
and/or structural integrity of the frame receiving portion and/or the lip. Additionally, because
the frame may cover at least a portion of the frame receiving portion and the sidewall of the
lip, these strengthening members may be generally hidden from view.
[0056]       Still yet another aspect described herein is a table top that may include a plurality
of strengthening members that are generally aligned.             For instance, the strengthening
members may include a body that is generally aligned with an axis and each strengthening
member of the plurality of strengthening members may be generally aligned along the same
axis or parallel axes. Advantageously, because the strengthening members generally aligned
with an axis may have increased strength, structural integrity and/or other characteristics in a
particular direction, such as along the axis, aligning the strengthening members along the

same axis or parallel axes may help create a table top with generally uniform properties and
characteristics. The table top may further include another plurality of strengthening members
that are generally aligned along a different axis. For example, the strengthening members
disposed along the different axis may provide increased strength, structural integrity and/or
other characteristics along this axis. Therefore, the strengthening members disposed along
different axes may be used to created portions of the table top with different characteristics.
This may allow, for example, some of the strengthening members in the frame receiving
portion to be disposed along a first axis, such as generally aligned with a length of the table
top, and other strengthening members to disposed along a second axis, such aligned with a
width of the table top. If desired, one or more of the strengthening members may be sized and
configured to help support the outer edges or sides of the table top.              For instance, the
strengthening members may help prevent the outer edges of the table top, which may not be
directly supported by the frame, from unintentionally bending, twisting or deflecting.
[0057]       A further aspect described herein is a table top may include strengthening
members, such as ribs, disposed in an outer edge or lip of the table top. For example, the
table top may include a lip or edge and a plurality of strengthening members may be formed
in the lip. In particular, the inner surface of the lip, such as a sidewall, may include a plurality
of inwardly extending strengthening members. In addition, these strengthening members may
be at least partially disposed in a frame receiving portion.        Significantly, the strengthening
members may provide increased strength, stiffness, rigidity and/or structural integrity to
portions of the table top such as the portion of the table top disposed above the frame and
portions of the table top that extend beyond the frame such as the lip. Advantageously, the
strengthening members may also help prevent undesired bending, twisting or deflecting of the
table top.
[0058]       Another further aspect described herein is a table top that may include
strengthening    members      and depressions with        different  shapes,   sizes,  arrangements,
orientations and/or configurations. For example, the majority or substantially the entire center

portion of the table top may include depressions with generally uniform shapes, sizes,
arrangements, orientations and configurations.         This may help create a table top with
generally constant characteristics. The side or edges of the table top, however, may include
depressions or strengthening members with different shapes, sizes, arrangements, orientations
and/or configurations.   For instance, the edges of the table top may include a first group of
depressions generally aligned in a first direction and a second group of depressions generally
aligned in a second direction. If desired, the first direction may be generally perpendicular, or
at an angle such as about 300, 450 or 60', to the second direction. Because the depressions or
strengthening members may be aligned in different directions, portions of the table top may
have different characteristics. The strengthening members proximate the edges of the table
top may also have different configurations.        For example, a first group of strengthening
members may be disposed in frame receiving portion and a second group of strengthening
members may be disposed in at least a portion of the frame receiving portion and the lip.
These strengthening members may support the portion of the table top disposed above the
frame and/or the portion of the table top extending beyond the frame.
[0059]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may include a leg clip sized and
configured to secure a leg or support structure in a fixed position relative to the table top when
the support structure is in a collapsed position. For example, the leg clip may include a base
attached to the table top. The base may be at least partially attached to and/or disposed in a
depression or receiving portion in a lower surface of the table top. The base may also be
disposed at an angle relative to the depression and/or one or more of the adjacent or
surrounding depressions. In addition, the base may include an upper surface that is generally
aligned within or disposed below the lower surface of the table top. If desired, the leg clip
may be at least partially disposed within a groove or channel in the lower surface of the table
top. For instance, a channel may be formed in the lower surface of the table top to receive a
portion of the support structure in the collapsed position and the leg clip may be at least
partially disposed within the channel. Additionally, one or more depressions may be formed

                                                L-I
in the channel and the leg clip may be at least partially disposed in a depression in the
channel.
[0060]      Yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include spacers, inserts or
pads, which may facilitate stacking of the tables. For example, when tables are stacked and/or
nested for manufacturing, transportation, storage, display and the like, a significant amount of
weight or force may be applied to the tables.        The weight or force may be particularly
significant for the tables disposed towards the lower portion of the stack. In addition, because
the features disclosed herein may allow significantly more tables to be stacked (such as
stacking twenty-seven (27) or twenty-nine (29) tables on a pallet rather than the traditional
stacking of twenty-one (21) tables on a pallet), a considerable amount of weight or force may
be applied to the tables. The spacers, inserts or pads may be used to prevent damage to the
tables. For instance, a pad may include a clip sized and configured to be attached to a portion
of the frame, such as a cross member, support structure or other suitable portion of the frame.
The pad may include a generally planar surface sized and configured to contact an upper
surface of an adjacent table. The pad may help distribute the weight or force more equally,
evenly and over a larger surface area on the adjacent table. Advantageously, because the pad
may be attached by a clip, that may allow the pad to be easily and quickly attached and/or
removed by the manufacturer, retailer, consumers and the like. In addition, the number of
pads may depend upon the number of tables to be stacked. For instance, a larger number of
pads may be used if a greater number of tables are to be stacked.
[0061]      Still another aspect described herein is a table that may include one or more foot
caps attached to the feet of the legs. For example, the table may include legs or a support
structure with two elongated members connected by a connecting member. The elongated
members may be constructed from tubular pieces of metal with a generally circular, oval,
oblong or rectangular cross-sectional configuration. The elongated members may be bent or
curved such that the upper portions of the elongated members are spaced closer together than
the lower portions of the elongated members.        This may help create, for example, a more

stable table with increased leg room. The foot caps may include an upper portion securely
connected to the ends of the elongated members and a lower portion that contacts a support
surface such as the ground or floor. Because the ends of the elongated members may be
disposed at an angle, such as about 80, which may be caused by bending the elongated
members into the desired shape or configuration, the foot caps are preferably designed to
include a lower surface that is disposed parallel to the floor.       In addition, the elongated
members and the foot caps may include alignment members.             For instance, the elongated
members may include a notch, cutout, groove, indentation or the like; and the foot caps may
include a corresponding projection, protrusion, protuberance or the like.       These alignment
members may help ensure the elongated members and foot caps are correctly attached in the
desired positions and configurations.
[0062]      Still yet another aspect described herein is a table that may include a combination
of features, aspects and the like, such as one or more of those discussed above. For example,
the table can include a frame with engaging portions that are sized and configured to be
disposed in a receiving portion of an adjacent table when the tables are nested together. The
table can also include one or more compression edges sized and configured to be disposed in
the receiving portion of the adjacent, nested table. Thus, the frame and compression edges
may facilitate alignment and nesting of the tables in a stacked configuration.       Further, the
table may include depressions or strengthening members disposed proximate or adjacent
portions of the frame, such as the side rails, and these structures may be sized and configured
to increase the strength, rigidity and/or structural integrity of the portion of the table top
disposed above and/or proximate the frame, and/or portions of the table top that are not
directly supported by the frame.       In addition, the table may include depressions and/or
strengthening members disposed at an angle relative to the bottom surface of the table top.
For instance, the table may include strengthening members in the lip disposed perpendicular
to the lower surface of the table top. Additionally, the table may include openings or recesses

in the sides that allow a portion of the frame to be exposed and readily visible when the table
is being used or stored, and openings in the ends to create handles.
[0063]      A further aspect described herein is a table that may be constructed from one or
more materials and processes. For example, the table top may be constructed from molded
plastic, such as blow-molded plastic.      The frame and legs may be constructed from high
strength materials such as steel. In particular, the frame and/or legs may be constructed from
high-strength, low-alloy (HSLA) steel rather than traditional carbon steel.         Importantly,
HSLA steel may be twenty to thirty percent (20 to 30%) lighter than carbon steel with the
same strength. Therefore, a table constructed with HSLA steel may be lightweight and have
the same strength as a conventional table constructed with a carbon steel frame because a
smaller gage of HSLA steel can be used. For example, sixteen (16) or eighteen (18) gage
HSLA steel may be used to construct the table, which is smaller than traditional steel. HSLA
steel, however, has not been previously used in this or other related industries because it is
much more expensive than traditional steel. That is, HSLA steel is cost prohibitive. The
reduction in the amount of steel required to manufacture the table with one or more of the
features disclosed herein, however, may be more than sufficient to offset or justify the price of
the more expensive HSLA steel. In particular, because the amount of steel required to create
the table with the disclosed features may be significantly less than the amount of steel
required to create a corresponding traditional table, HSLA steel may no longer be cost
prohibitive. Thus, because less steel may be required and/or HSLA steel may be stronger and
lighter weight, the table can be manufactured with HSLA steel.
[0064]      Another aspect described herein is a table that may be sized and configured to nest
with an adjacent table to reduce a height of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested
configuration. The table may include a table top constructed from molded plastic with an
upper surface, a sidewall, a nesting portion at least partially formed in the upper surface and
the sidewall, a lower surface, a lip downwardly extending from the lower surface and a
compression edge in a lower portion of the lip. The compression edge may be sized and

configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested
with the adjacent table. The table may also include a frame with a first side rail with a first
frame engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in the nesting portion of the
adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table. The table may further include
a second side rail with a second frame engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed
in the nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table. At
least a portion of the compression edge, the first frame engaging portion and the second frame
engaging portion may be sized and configured to be simultaneously disposed in the nesting
portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table.
[0065]       Advantageously, if the table top is constructed from blow-molded plastic, the
upper surface, the sidewall, the nesting portion, the lower surface, the lip and the compression
edge could be integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece construction during a blow
molding process. In addition, the first and second frame engaging portions could be integrally
formed with the first and second side rails as part of a unitary, one-piece construction, the first
and second frame engaging portion could be generally aligned with a first side of the table
top, and a lower portion of the first and second frame engaging portions could be generally
aligned and coplanar with a lower portion of the compression edge. Additionally, the nesting
portion could be disposed at an intersection of the upper surface and the sidewall, and the
nesting portion could be sized and configured to contact at least a portion of the compression
edge of the table top, the first frame engaging portion and the second frame engaging portion
of an adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table. The nesting portion
could also be disposed below a plane generally aligned with the upper surface of the table top.
If desired, the compression edge could be at least partially formed in a corner and it could be
sized and configured to be disposed in the nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table
is nested with the adjacent table. Further, the frame may have a wall thickness measured
between an inner surface and an outer surface, and the first frame engaging portion may have
a thickness of twice the wall thickness of the first side rail and the second frame engaging

                                                -Y I
portion may have a thickness of twice the wall thickness of the second side rail. The molded
plastic table top may also have a wall thickness measured between an inner surface and an
outer surface, and the compression edge may have a thickness of twice the wall thickness.
[0066]      Still another aspect described herein is a table that may be sized and configured to
nest with an adjacent table to reduce a height of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested
configuration.    Each table of the plurality of stacked tables may be substantially identical.
The table may include a table top constructed from molded plastic with an upper surface, a
sidewall, a lower surface and a nesting portion disposed proximate an outer perimeter of the
table top. The upper surface, the lower surface, the sidewall and the nesting portion of the
table top may be integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece construction during a
molding process. The table may also include a frame with a first side rail disposed proximate
a first side of the table top, a first frame engaging portion of the first side rail sized and
configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested
with the adjacent table, a second side rail disposed proximate a second side of the table top,
and a second frame engaging portion of the second side rail sized and configured to be
disposed in the nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent
table. An edge of the table top may be sized and configured to be disposed in the nesting
portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table. In addition, the
first frame engaging portion, the second frame engaging portion and the edge of the table top
may be disposed in the nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the
adjacent table.
[0067]      Still yet another aspect described herein is a table top that may include a lip with a
compression edge disposed in a lower portion of the lip. The compression edge may be sized
and configured to be disposed in the nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table is
nested with the adjacent table. In addition, the first frame engaging portion, the second frame
engaging portion and the compression edge of the table top may be disposed in the nesting
portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table. Additionally, a

                                                -Y
comer may include a compression edge sized and configured to be disposed in the nesting
portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table, a lip along a side
of the table top may include a compression edge sized and configured to be disposed in the
nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table, and/or a
lip along an end of the table top may include a compression edge sized and configured to be
disposed in the nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent
table. That may allow the first frame engaging portion, the second frame engaging portion,
the comer compression edge, the side lip compression edge and/or the end lip compression
edge to be disposed in the nesting portion of the adjacent table when the table is nested with
the adjacent table.
[0068]      These and other aspects, features and advantages of the present invention will
become more fully apparent from the following brief description of the drawings, the
drawings, the detailed description of preferred embodiments and appended claims.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0069]      The appended drawings contain figures of exemplary embodiments to further
illustrate and clarify the above and other aspects, advantages and features of the present
invention. It will be appreciated that these drawings depict only exemplary embodiments of
the invention and are not intended to limits its scope. Additionally, it will be appreciated that
while the drawings may illustrate preferred sizes, scales, relationships and configurations of
the invention, the drawings are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention. The
invention will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the
use of the accompanying drawings in which:
[0070]      Figure 1 is an upper perspective view of an exemplary table;
[0071]      Figure 2 is a lower perspective view of the table shown in Figure 1;
[0072]      Figure 3 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown in Figure
2;

[0073]       Figure 4 is a perspective view of a portion of the table shown in Figure 1,
illustrating a side rail of a frame;
[0074]       Figure 5 is an enlarged side view of the side rail of the frame shown in Figure 4;
[0075]       Figure 6 is a cross-sectional side view of a portion of the table shown in Figure 1;
[0076]       Figure 7 is an upper perspective view of two exemplary tables disposed in a nested
and stacked configuration;
[0077]       Figure 8 is a cross-sectional side view along section line 8-8 of a portion of the
tables shown in Figure 7;
[0078]       Figure 9 is an enlarged side view of a portion of the table shown in Figure 8,
illustrating a side rail of the frame and a portion of a table top disposed in a nesting portion in
an adjacent, nested table;
[0079]       Figure 10 is perspective view of another exemplary table;
[0080]       Figure 11 is an enlarged lower perspective view of a portion of the table shown in
Figure 10;
[0081]       Figure 12 is an enlarged side view of a portion of the table shown in Figure 10,
illustrating a side rail of a frame;
[0082]       Figure 13 is an upper perspective view of two exemplary tables disposed in a
stacked and nested configuration;
[0083]       Figure 14 is an enlarged cross-sectional side view along lines 14-14 of a portion of
the tables shown in Figure 13;
[0084]       Figure 15 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown in Figure
13, illustrating an exemplary connection of the frame and table top;
[0085]       Figure 16 is another enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown in
Figure 13, illustrating the exemplary connection of the frame and table top;
[0086]       Figure 17 is yet another enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown
in Figure 13, illustrating the exemplary connection of the frame and table top;

[0087]       Figure 18 is a cross-sectional side view along lines 18-18 of a portion of the table
shown in Figure 17;
[0088]       Figure 19 is a perspective view an yet another exemplary table;
[0089]       Figure 20 is a cross-sectional view of a portion of the table shown in Figure 19,
illustrating two tables in a stacked and nested configuration;
[0090]       Figure 21 is a perspective view a further exemplary table, illustrating two tables in
a stacked and nested configuration;
[0091]       Figure 22 is a cross-sectional view of a portion of the tables shown in Figure 21;
[0092]       Figure 23 is perspective view of yet another further exemplary table;
[0093]       Figure 24 is a perspective view of a still further exemplary table;
[0094]       Figure 25 is a cross-sectional side view along lines 25-25 of a portion of the table
shown in Figure 23;
[0095]       Figure 26 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown in Figure
23;
[0096]       Figure 27 is an enlarged perspective view of another portion of the table shown in
Figure 23;
[0097]       Figure 28 is an end view of two exemplary stacked tables;
[0098]       Figure 29 is a perspective view of a portion of the two stacked tables shown in
Figure 29;
[0099]       Figure 30 is a lower perspective view of an exemplary table, illustrating leg clips
that may be used to secure support structures in a fixed position;
[00100]      Figure 31 is a lower perspective view of the table shown in Figure 30, illustrating
leg clips attached to support structures;
[00101]      Figure 32 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown in Figure
30, illustrating a leg clip attached to a lower portion of the table top;
[00102]      Figure 33 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown in Figure
31, illustrating a leg clip attached to a support structure;

                                                  [- F
[00103]      Figure 34 is an enlarged upper perspective view of the leg clip;
1001041      Figure 35 is an enlarged lower perspective view of the leg clip;
[00105]      Figure 36 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the table shown in Figure
31, illustrating a support clip;
[00106]      Figure 37 is an enlarged upper perspective view of the support clip;
[00107]      Figure 38 is an enlarged lower perspective view of the support clip;
[00108]      Figure 39 is a perspective view of two exemplary tables in a nested configuration;
[00109]      Figure 40 is a cross-sectional side view along lines 40-40 of the table shown in
Figure 39;
[00110]      Figure 41 is a perspective view of an exemplary end cap;
[00111]      Figure 42 is a another perspective view of the end cap shown in Figure 41;
[00112]      Figure 43 is a still another perspective view of the end cap shown in Figure 41;
[00113]      Figure 44 is a yet another perspective view of the end cap shown in Figure 41 and
a lower portion of a support structure;
[00114]      Figure 45 is a perspective view of an exemplary support structure and end cap;
[00115]      Figure 46 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the support structure and
end cap shown in Figure 45;
[00116]      Figure 47 is a side view of a portion of the support structure and end cap shown in
Figure 45;
[00117]      Figure 48 is an upper perspective view of a portion of an exemplary table,
illustrating a handle; and
[00118]      Figure 49 is an upper perspective view of two exemplary tables disposed in a
nested configuration.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[00119]      The present invention is generally directed towards tables. The principles of the
present invention, however, are not limited to tables. It will be understood that, in light of the
present disclosure, the tables disclosed herein can have a variety of shapes, sizes,

configurations and arrangements.     In addition, while the tables shown in the accompanying
figures are banquet or utility tables, it will be appreciated the tables may have any suitable
style or configuration such as round, personal, conference or card tables.          Further, the
invention disclosed herein may be successfully used in connection with other types of
furniture and/or structures.
[00120]     Additionally, to assist in the description of preferred embodiments of the tables,
words such as top, bottom, front, rear, right and left may be used to describe the
accompanying figures which may be, but are not necessarily, drawn to scale. It will further be
appreciated the tables can be disposed in a variety of desired positions or orientations, and
used in numerous locations, environments and arrangements.           A detailed description of
preferred embodiments the table now follows.
[00121]     As shown in Figures 1 and 2, an exemplary table 10 may include a table top 12
and the table top may be constructed from molded plastic. The table top 12 may include an
upper portion 14, such as an upper surface; a lower portion 16, such as a lower portion, and a
perimeter 18. As shown in the accompanying figures, a sidewall may be disposed about the
perimeter 18 of the table top 12. The upper portion 14 may be spaced apart from the lower
portion 16 of the table top 12 by a distance, which may be a generally constant distance. The
table top 12 may also include a hollow interior portion disposed between the upper and lower
portions 14, 16 of the table top. In addition, the table top 12 may include a lip 20, which may
extend downwardly from the lower portion 16 of the table top. The table top 12 may further
include one or more sides 22, corners 24 and ends 26. The table top 12, including the upper
portion 14, the lower portion 16, the hollow interior portion, the lip 20, the sides 22, the
corners 24 and/or the ends 26, may be integrally formed as part of unitary, one-piece structure
during the molding process. If the table top 12 is constructed from plastic, it may be formed
in the desired shape by blow-molding, injection molding, rotary molding, and/or other
suitable processes. It will also be appreciated that the table top 12 may be constructed using
various materials such as wood, metal and the like.

                                                J /
[00122]      The table 10 may also include a one or more support structures 28, which may be
sized and configured to support the table top 12 above a surface such as the floor or ground.
The support structures 28 may include one or more legs or supports 30 and the support
structures may be movable between an extended or use position and a collapsed or storage
position relative to the table top 12. As shown in the accompanying figures, the support
structures 28 may include a pair of legs or supports 30 and a connecting member 32 may
interconnect the supports.
[00123]      The table 10 may include a frame 36 that is connected to the table top 12.        If
desired, the support structures 28 may be connected to the frame 36. In addition, the support
structures 28 may be movably connected to the frame 36 to allow the legs 30 to move
between an outwardly extending or use position and a collapsed or storage position. For
example, the support structures 28 may include or be connected to cross members 38, 40 and
the legs 30 may be connected to the cross members. The cross members 38, 40 may then be
connected to the frame 36.       In particular, the frame 36 may include elongated support
members or side rails 42, 44 and the cross members 38, 40 may be connected to the side rails.
It will be appreciated that the cross members 38, 40 may also be part of the frame 36. The
side rails 42, 44 may extend along the length and/or width of the table top 12 and the side rails
may help support the table top and/or facilitate connection of the support structures 28 and/or
cross members 38, 40 to the table top.
[00124]      The support structures 28 and/or the legs 30, however, do not have to be connected
to the cross members 38, 40 or the frame 36. Instead, the support structures 28 and/or the legs
30 may be connected to any suitable portions of the table 10. It will also be appreciated that
the table 10 may include any suitable number of support structures 28 and/or legs 30
depending, for example, upon the intended use of the table. It will also be appreciated that the
table top 12, the support structures 28 and the legs 30 may have various sizes, shapes,
configurations and arrangements depending, for example, upon the intended use of the table
10.   It will further be appreciated that the frame 36, the side rails 42, 44 and/or the cross

members 38, 40 are not required; and the table 10 may have other components, features,
aspects, characteristics and the like, if desired.
[00125]      The table 10 may also include first and second brace assemblies 46, 48, which may
be connected to the support structures 28. In particular, the brace assemblies 46, 48 may be
connected to the legs 30 and may be sized and configured to allow the legs to move between
the use and storage positions. As shown in Figure 2, the brace assemblies 46, 48 may include
a first portion 50A connected to the legs 30 and a second portion 50B connected to a cross
member 52 and/or the table top 12.           The first and second portions 50A, 50B may be
interconnected to form the brace assemblies 46, 48.
[00126]      The table 10 is preferably sized and configured to be stacked with one or more
additional tables. In particular, the stacked tables 10 are preferably nested together to reduce
the height of the stacked tables, which may allow the tables to be shipped, stored and
transported in a smaller area. This may result in significant cost savings to the manufacturer,
for example, because less storage space may be required and a substantial reduction in
transportation costs may be achieved.
[00127]      The frame 36 may be sized and configured to facilitate nesting of the tables 10.
For example, as shown in Figure 2, the side rails 42, 44 of the frame 36 may be disposed
along the sides 22 of the table top 12. Advantageously, if the side rails 42, 44 are disposed
proximate the sides 22 of the table top 12, then the sides of the table top may be supported by
the frame 36, which may help create a strong and sturdy table 10. In addition, the side rails
42, 44 may be sized and configured to help transfer forces towards a center portion of the
table and away from the perimeter 18, which also help create a strong and sturdy table 10.
[00128]      As best seen in Figures 3-6, the exemplary side rail 42 may have a body 54 with an
inner surface 56 and an outer surface 58.          The side rail 44 preferably has a similar or
complementary configuration, as shown in the accompanying figures. The body 54 may have
a generally planar configuration and it may extend almost the entire length of the table top 12.
The body 54 may also be disposed generally vertically and perpendicular to the lower portion

16 of the table top 12.     The side rail 42 preferably includes multiple angled portions or
flanges, which may help increase strength, rigidity and torsion resistance. For example, the
side rail 42 may include an upper portion 60 that is disposed generally perpendicular or at a
right angle with respect to the body 54. The upper portion 60 may include a downwardly
extending flange 62 and the upper portion preferably extends inwardly towards a center
portion of the table top 12. As shown in Figure 3, the upper portion 60 of the side rail 42 may
have a generally U-shaped configuration and it may be disposed within a frame receiving
portion 64 in the lower portion 16 of the table top 12. In particular, an upper surface of the
upper portion 60 of the side rail 42 may contact or abut a lower surface of the frame receiving
portion 64 and an outer surface of the flange 62 may contact an inner sidewall 66 of the frame
receiving portion.
[00129]     The side rail 42 may also include a lower portion 68 that extends outwardly
towards an outer portion of the table top 12. The lower portion 68 may include a connecting
portion 70 that is disposed at an angle, such as a right angle, to the body 54 of the side rail 42.
The connecting portion 70 may have a generally planar configuration with an upper surface
72 that is disposed towards a lower surface of the lip 20 and a lower surface 74. The lower
portion 68 of the side rail 42 may also include an engaging or engagement portion 76, such as
a projection or flange, which may extend downwardly and at a right angle relative to the
lower surface 74. The engaging portion 76 may have an engagement surface 78, which may
be rounded or curved surface.      The lower portion 68 of the side rail 42 may also have an
upwardly extending portion 80 with an end 82. As shown in Figure 1, for example, an outer
surface of the upwardly extending portion 80 may be exposed and visible when the table 10 is
viewed from the side.
[00130]     If a portion of the frame 36, such as the side rails 42, 44, is disposed below or
proximate the lower portion of the lip 20, then the frame may help prevent the table top 12
from being damaged. This may allow the frame 36 to absorb impacts or forces that otherwise
may damage the table top 12. For instance, as shown in Figure 1, the lower portion of the

                                                  _ro
side rail 42 may extend below the lower portion of the lip 20 along the sides 22 of the table
top 12. In addition, the lower portion of the side rail 42 may be aligned with and coplanar
with a lower portion of the comers 24 and the ends 26.
[00131]      As shown in Figure 4, the side rail 42 may include apertures 84 and the apertures
may be sized and configured to allow the cross members 38, 40 to be connected to the frame
36. The apertures 84 may also allow the cross member 52 to be connected to the frame 36.
Further, as shown in Figure 3, the apertures 84 may facilitate the use of fasteners 88 to attach
the side rails 42, 44 of the frame 36 to the table top 12. In particular, the apertures 84 may
facilitate attachment of the side rails 42, 44 of the frame 36 to the lip 20 of the table top 12.
[00132]      As shown in Figure 6, the side rail 42 may be disposed proximate the lip 20 and
the outer surface 58 of the body 54 may contact or abut an inner wall of the lip.
Advantageously, this may allow the frame 36 to help support the lip 20. The upper portion 60
of the side rail 42 may be disposed in the frame receiving portion 64, which may be integrally
formed in the table top 12 as part of a unitary, one-piece construction. In particular, an upper
surface of the upper portion 60 may contact or abut a lower surface of the frame receiving
portion 64 and an outer surface of the flange 62 may contact or about the sidewall 66. The
positioning of the frame receiving portion 64 adjacent to the lip 20 may help facilitate
positioning of the side rail 42 and may help prevent the frame 36 from undesirably moving or
bending when a load or force is applied to the table 10.
[00133]      The lower portion 68 of the side rail 42 may be at least generally disposed below a
lower portion of the lip 20. For example, the connecting portion 70 may be spaced apart from
the lower portion of the lip 20 by a distance.         In particular, the upper surface 72 of the
connecting portion 70 may be spaced apart from the lower surface of the lip 20 and the
connecting portion may be disposed generally parallel to the lower portion of the lip. The
engaging portion 76 may extend downwardly and the engagement surface 78 may be
generally aligned with or disposed in generally the same plane as a lowermost portion of the
table top 12, such as a lower surface of the corners 24. The upwardly extending portion 80 of

                                                -r 1
the side rail 42 is preferably disposed in or proximate an opening or recess 90 in the lip 20,
which may allow a portion of the side rail to be visible or exposed. The end 82 of the side rail
42 may contact or abut the lower surface of the lip 20. In addition, the end 82 of the side rail
42 may contact or abut an inner surface of an edge 92, such as a compression edge, of the lip
20. As shown in Figure 6, an alignment member 94 may be disposed in the lower surface of
the lip 20 and the end 82 of the side rail 42 may be disposed between the compression edge 92
and the alignment member 94, which may help position the frame 36 and/or prevent the side
rail from undesirably moving or bending.
[00134]     Advantageously, the compression edge 92 and the alignment member 94 may be
integrally formed with the table top 12 as part of a unitary, one-piece construction.         In
addition, if the table top is constructed from blow-molded plastic, the compression edge may
be formed by the outer wall being folded onto itself such that the compression edge has a
thickness approximately equal to twice the outer wall thickness. The compression edge may
help provide increased strength, stiffness, structural integrity and/or impact resistance.
[00135]     The side rail 42 may be quickly and easily formed into the exemplary
configuration shown in the accompanying figures. For instance, a sheet of material, such as
steel, may be shaped into the desired configuration.        In addition, the side rail 42 may be
quickly and easily disposed in a desired position because the upper portion 60 may be
disposed in the frame receiving portion 64, the outer surface 58 of the body 54 may engage
the inner surface of the lip 20, and the end 82 may be disposed between the compression edge
92 and the alignment member 94. Also, because only one or more fasteners may be required
to connect the side rail 42 to the table top 12, this may expedite the manufacturing process.
Additionally, the engaging portion 76 may have increased strength because it may have
double or twice the thickness as other portions of the side rail 42. Thus, the engaging portion
76 may have increased strength, rigidity and/or impact resistance.
[00136]     As discussed above, the side rails 42, 44 of the frame 36 may assist in stacking and
nesting of the tables 10. For example, as shown in Figure 7, two tables 10 may be stacked

and nested together. Advantageously, if the tables 10 are nested together, this may reduce the
height of the stacked tables.      For instance, if twenty-one (21) tables can be stacked on a
conventional pallet, then 798 conventional tables may be loaded into a conventional forty foot
high-capacity container. The nested tables 10 shown in the accompanying figures, however,
may allow twenty-six (26) tables to be loaded on a conventional pallet. Significantly, this
may allow 988 tables to be loaded in the same forty foot high-capacity container. Thus, the
nesting tables 10 allow 190 more tables to be shipped in each container.             Therefore,
approximately twenty-five percent (25%) more tables can be shipped in the same size
container, which may considerably reduce shipping costs.
[00137]      As shown in Figures 7-9, the tables 10 may include a nesting portion 100 that is
sized and configured to facilitate nesting of the tables. The nesting portion 100 is preferably
disposed about the perimeter 18 of the table top 12. In particular, the nesting portion 100 is
preferably disposed about the entire perimeter 18 of the table top 12 including the sides 22,
the corners 24 and the ends 26. The nesting portion 100 may be at least partially disposed in
an upper surface 102 and sidewall 104 of the table top 12. Desirably, the nesting portion 100
may be disposed below a plane aligned with the upper surface 102 of the table top 12. The
nesting portion 100 is preferably sized and configured to receive the engaging portion 76 of
an adjacent table in the nested configuration.       The nesting portion 100 may be integrally
formed with the table top 12 as part of a unitary, one-piece construction during the molding
process, if the table top is constructed from molded plastic.
[00138]      In greater detail, the nesting portion 100 may be disposed at least proximate the
intersection of the upper surface 102 and the side wall 104. Additionally, the nesting portion
100 may have a generally L-shaped configuration that is open on two sides, which may help
facilitate alignment and nesting of the tables 10. As shown in Figure 9, the nesting portion
100 may be a groove or channel with a height H and a width W. The height H is preferably
between about 0.25 inches and about 0.5 inches, such as about 0.3 inches or 0.4 inches, and
the width W may be larger than the height by a factor such as two, three or more.           For

example, the width W may be approximately two times the height H such that, in this
exemplary embodiment, if the height is about 0.25 inches, then the width may be about 0.5
inches. The height H and the width W may also be approximately the same. For instance, if
the height H is about 0.5 inches, then the width W may also be about 0.5 inches. It will also
be appreciated that the width W may be smaller than the height H. Thus, for example, if the
height H is about 0.4 inches, then the width W may be about 0.3 inches or less. It will be
understood that the height H and/or the width W may vary depending, for example, upon the
intended use of the table 10.
[00139]     As discussed above, the nesting portion 100 may be sized and configured to
receive the engaging portion 76 of the frame 36. In particular, the engagement surface 78 of
the engaging portion 76 may contact or abut a lower surface 106 and/or a sidewall 108 of the
nesting portion.    The nesting portion 100 may also be sized and configured to receive a
portion of the table top 12. For example, a lower portion of the corners 24 may be disposed in
the nesting portion 100. Additionally, a lower portion of the ends 26 of the table top 12 may
be disposed in the nesting portion 100.     Thus, the table top 12 may include one or more
engaging portions that are sized and configured to be disposed in the nesting portion 100.
Therefore, the nesting portion 100 may receive one or more engaging portions 76 of the frame
36 and/or engaging portions of the table top 12.
[00140]     The engaging portions of the table top 12 may include an engaging portion 110 of
the lip 20. For instance, as seen in Figures 8 and 9, the engaging portion 110 of the lip 20
may be disposed along the side 22 of the table top 12 and it may be disposed in the nesting
portion 100 alongside or proximate the engaging portion 76 of the frame 36. In addition, the
comer 24 may include an engaging portion 112 and the end 26 may include an engaging
portion 114 which are sized and configured to be disposed in the nesting portion 100. This
may allow the engaging portion 76 of the frame 36 to be disposed in the nesting portion 100
along the sides 22 of the table top 12, the engaging portion 112 to be disposed in the nesting
portion in the comers 24, and the engaging portion 114 to be disposed in the nesting portion

along the ends 26 of the adjacent table top. Therefore, the engaging portions disposed in the
nesting portion 100 may include a combination of one or more portions of the frame 36 and/or
table top 12.
[00141]     As discussed above, the engaging portion 76 of the frame 36 may have a double
wall thickness. In addition, the engaging portions 110, 112, 114 of the table top 12 may have
a double wall thickness because, for example, these portions of the table top may include a
compression edge.     The compression edge may have a double wall thickness because the
outer wall may be folded back upon itself such that the inner surfaces of the outer wall contact
or abut. In addition, as indicated above, the openings or recesses 90 in the lip 20 may include
a compression edge 92. Therefore, if desired, the compression edge may extend about all or a
majority of the lower portion 16 of the table top 12 such as the lip 20, the sides 22, the comers
24 and/or the ends 26. Further, as shown in the accompanying figures, the compression edges
92, 110, 112, 114 may have different heights. For example, the compression edge 92 in the
opening 90 may have a smaller height than the compression edge 110 of the lip 20, the
compression edge 112 of the corner 24 and/or the compression edge 114 of the end 26. In
addition, the compression edge 112 of the corner 24 may have a greater height than the
compression edges 92, 110, or 114.       The compression edges 92, 110, 112, 114, however,
preferably have a generally constant thickness. Advantageously, the double wall thickness of
the engaging portion 76 and the compression edges may provide increased strength, rigidity,
structural integrity and/or impact resistance, which may create a table top 12 that is more
robust, durable and less likely to be damaged.     The double wall thickness of the engaging
portion 76 and the compression edges may also create relatively thin structures that allow the
size of the nesting portion 100 to be minimized.
[00142]     As shown in Figures 8 and 9, the side rail 42 of the frame 36 may have multiple
contact surfaces or areas that are sized and configured to contact an adjacent, nested table.
For example, the lower surface 74 of the connecting portion 70 of the side rail 42 may have a
generally planar contact surface 116 that is sized and configured to contact or abut the upper

                                               -r J
surface 102 of an adjacent, nested table 10. The contact surface 116 may have a width of
about 0.25 inches, about 0.5 inches or about 1.0 inches, or more, and may extend substantially
the entire length of the table top 12. In addition, the engagement surface 78 of the engaging
portion 76 of the frame 36 may form at least a portion of a contact surface 118 that is sized
and configured to contact or abut the lower surface 106 and/or the sidewall 108 of the nesting
portion 100. Further, the compression edges 92, 110, 112, 114 may be sized and configured
to contact or abut the lower surface 106 and/or sidewall 108 of the nesting portion 100.
Advantageously, this may allow a load or force to be shared or distributed over multiple areas
when the tables 10 are nested. Thus, load bearing surfaces may be formed by the surface 116,
the surface 118 and/or the compression edges 92, 110, 112, 114. In particular, the surface 116
may be a first load bearing surface 116 and the surface 118 may be a second load bearing
surface. These multiple load bearing surfaces may allow the tables 10 to support more weight
and permit additional tables to be stacked and nested, and may help prevent damage to the
tables 10.
[00143]     Therefore, the frame 36 may provide multiple load bearing surfaces between
adjacent, stacked tables 10 and this may allow a greater number of tables to be nested together
without damage. The frame 36 may also facilitate alignment and positioning of the tables 10
in the nested configuration. In addition, the frame 36 may help maintain the tables 10 in the
nested configuration because a friction or interfere engagement with an adjacent, nested table
may be created.      Additionally, the frame 36 may protect the table top 12 from damage
because it may extend below a least a portion of the lip 20 and, if the engaging portion 76 has
a double wall thickness, the frame may be stronger and have increased impact resistance.
Further, the frame 36 may facilitate nesting of the tables 10, which may significantly reduce
the height of a plurality of nested tables, and this may be particularly advantageous when
manufacturing, shipping, storing and displaying of the tables.       Finally, the frame 36 may
allow the table 10 to have the same general size, configuration and appearance as a
conventional table, but much less area may be required when the tables are nested together.

                                                _ru
[00144]     Another exemplary embodiment of a table 200 is shown in Figures 10-18.        The
table 200 may have generally the same shape, size, configuration and arrangement as the table
10. In addition, the table 200 may have one or more features and/or aspects of the table 10.
Therefore, it will be understood the table 200 may include one or more similarities with the
table 10 and, for convenience and brevity, the same reference numbers may be used to refer to
the same or similar parts.
[00145]     The table 200 may include a frame 202 with a generally V-shaped configuration.
For example, as shown in Figure 12, the frame 202 may include a side rail 204 that is
disposed along a side of the table top 12. The side rail 204 may include an outer portion 206
that is disposed towards an outer surface or perimeter 18 of the table top 12.      The outer
portion 206 may have a generally planar outer surface and may be disposed in the opening 90
in the lip 20 of the table top 12. The end 208 of the outer portion 206 may be curved or
rounded and it may be sized and configured to be disposed in the nesting portion 100 of an
adjacent, nested table.    The side rail 204 may also include an inner portion 210 that is
disposed towards an inner portion of the table top 12. The inner portion 210 may also include
an inwardly extending flange 212.
[00146]     As shown in Figure 13, the tables 200 may be disposed in a nested configuration in
which an upper portion of the lower table is nested within a lower portion of the upper table.
In greater detail, as shown in Figure 14, the table top 12 may include a frame receiving
portion 214 that is generally V-shaped and the frame 202 may be at least partially disposed
within the frame receiving portion. Advantageously, this may help position the side rail 204
in the desired location and prevent the side rail from inadvertently moving or bending.   The
end 208 of the side rail 204 may be disposed in the nesting portion 100 of an adjacent table
when the tables are nested together.
[00147]     In greater detail, the end 208 of the side rail 204, which may have a double wall
thickness because the end is bent back upon itself (such as shown in Figure 12) or folded at a
1800 angle (such as shown in Figure 14). The end 208 may be disposed in the nesting portion

                                                 -r /
100 of an adjacent table in the nested configuration. In particular, the end 208 of the side rail
204 may contact the lower surface 106 and/or the sidewall 108 of the nesting portion 100.
Additionally, if the outer portion 206 of the side rail 204 is disposed in the opening 90 in the
sides of the table top 12, then an exposed surface 216 of the side rail may be readily visible
when viewing the side of the table top.
[00148]     As shown in Figures 15-18, the side rail 204 may be connected to the table top 12
by disposing an engaging portion 220 of the table top 12 within a receiving portion 222 of the
side rail 204. For instance, as shown in Figure 15, the engaging portion 220 may be disposed
in an enlarged portion 224 of the receiving portion 222, which may have a generally key
shaped configuration. As shown in Figure 16, the side rail 204 may be slid or moved so that
the engaging portion 220 is now disposed in a smaller portion 226 of the receiving portion
222. As best seen in Figure 18, the engaging portion 220 may include a receiving portion,
such as undercut 228, that is sized and configured to receive an edge 230 of the receiving
portion 222. Advantageously, the undercut 228 and edge 230 may help secure the 204 in a
fixed position within the frame receiving portion 214. For example, the undercut 228 and the
edge 230 may create a friction or interference fit between the engaging portion 220 and the
receiving portion 222.      This exemplary configuration may allow the frame 202 to be
connected to the table top 12 without requiring any additional components, fasteners, or the
like. One or more fasteners, such as a fastener 232, however, may be used to maintain the
side rail 204 in a fixed position and/or attach the side rail to the table top 12.
[00149]     Advantageously, if the side rail 204 of the frame 36 is connected to the table top
12 by the engaging and receiving portions 220, 222, then fasteners may not be used to
primarily secure the frame to the table top. Instead, fasteners may be used to simply prevent
the frame 36 from moving relative to the table top 12. Thus, fewer fasteners may be used and
the table top 12 may be less likely to be damaged because fasteners may not be load bearing
or supporting members. It will be understood this exemplary embodiment of attaching the
table top 12 and frame 36 may be used in connection with any of the tables disclosed herein.

                                                 -r u
It will also be understood the tables may include any suitable number or combination of
features, aspects, characteristics and the like disclosed herein depending, for example, upon
the intended use of the tables. Further, it will be understood that while the tables may have
similar aspects, features, characteristics and the like, the tables may also have other or
different aspects, features, characteristics and the like.
[00150]     For example, the frame 202 may facilitate alignment and positioning of the tables
200. The frame 202 may also protect the table top 12 from damage because it may extend
below a portion of the lip 20 and the double wall thickness of the end 208 may provide
increased strength and impact resistance. Additionally, the frame 202 may facilitate nesting
of the tables 200 and that may significantly reduce the height of a plurality of stacked, nested
tables. Further, because the table 200 may have the same general size, configuration and
appearance as a conventional table and/or a portion of the frame 202 may be exposed,
consumers may immediately assume the table 200 has the same strength and structural
integrity as a conventional table. It will be understood the table 200, and the other tables
disclosed herein, may include any suitable combination of these aspects, features,
characteristics and the like.
[00151]     Another exemplary embodiment of a table is shown in Figures 19-22.            In this
configuration, the table 300 may include a frame 302 with a generally S-shaped side rail 304.
In greater detail, the side rail 304 may include an outer portion 306 with an end 308 and an
inner portion 310 with a flange 312. The inner portion 310 of the side rail 304 may be
disposed within a frame receiving portion 314 in the lower portion 16 of the table top 12. The
end 308 of the outer portion of the side rail 304 may be disposed in a receiving portion 316,
such as a groove or channel, which may be disposed in a lower portion of the lip 20.
[00152]     As best seen in Figure 20, when the tables 300 are nested together, the side rails
304 of the frame 302 may be generally aligned, which may allow the tables in the nested
configuration to support a considerable amount of weight.          In addition, a downwardly
extending portion 320 of the lip 20, such as a compression edge, may be disposed along the

                                               -r -/
side 22 of the table top 12. The downwardly extending portion 320 of the lip 20 may be
disposed in the nesting portion 100 of the adjacent, nested table.        Similar to the tables
discussed above, the nested tables 300 may significantly reduce the height of a plurality of
stacked tables. Advantageously, the reduced height may save space during the manufacturing
process, reduce transportation costs, decrease the amount of required storage space and allow
the tables to be more easily displayed and stored.
[00153]     As shown in Figure 22, the tables 300 could have a different configuration in
which the side rails 304 are offset or disposed a different distance from the sides 22 of the
table top 12. In this configuration, the offset side rails 304 may allow the tables 300 to be
stacked with lower portions 16 of the tables contacting and abutting.      In greater detail, the
outer portion 306 of the side rail 304 may be disposed proximate the lip 20 and within a
receiving portion 322 formed in the lower surface of the lip of the adjacent, nested table.
[00154]     When the tables 300 are stacked as shown in Figure 22, a lower portion of one
table is nested with a lower portion of the adjacent, nested table. In this configuration, the
outer portion 306 of the frame 302 on one side of the lower table 300 is disposed in the
receiving portion 322 in the lower portion of the lip 20 of the upper table.   The outer portion
306 of the frame 302 on the other side of the upper table 300 is disposed in the receiving
portion 322 in the lower portion of the lip 20 of the lower table. Therefore, because the side
rails 304 of the frame 302 are offset, the orientation of the tables 300 may alternate when the
tables are disposed in the stacked, nested configuration. Advantageously, because the lower
portions of the tables 300 are nested together, the upper portions of the tables may be less
susceptible to damage. Further, because the upper surfaces of the tables 300 are preferably
generally planar and the upper surface of one table may contact the upper surface of another
table when multiple tables are stacked together, a load or force on the tables may be
distributed over a large area which may help prevent the tables from being damaged.
[00155]     Another exemplary embodiment is shown in Figures 23-29 in which the table 400
may include a frame 402 that is attached to the perimeter 18 of the table top 12. For example,

as seen in Figures 23 and 24, the table 400 may have generally the same size, shape,
configuration and arrangement as the tables 10, 200 and 300. The frame 402, however, may
include side rails 404 that include a receiving portion 406 that is sized and configured to
receive an edge of the table top 12. The side rails 404 may also include an outer edge or
flange 408 with an upper surface that is generally aligned with the upper portion 14 of the
table top 12. Advantageously, the receiving portion 406 and flange 408 may help protect the
table top 12 from damage.        The side rails 404 may also include one or more inwardly
extending flanges 410, 412, which may be sized and configured to allow the support
structures 28 to be connected to the table 400. Further, the table 400 may include comers
414, which may help protect the frame 402 and/or table top 12 from damage. If desired, the
comers 414 may be connected to the frame 402. On the other hand, the comers 414 may be
used to connect the frame 402 to the table 400. In addition, as shown in Figures 28 and 29,
the corners 414 may include a downwardly extending projection 416 that may be sized and
configured to facilitate stacking and/or alignment of the tables 400.
[00156]     As discussed above, the tables may include any suitable number of features, which
may be freely combined depending, for example, upon the intended use of the table.
Additional features such as leg clips, spacers, inserts, pads, foot caps and handles, are
described in more detail below. While the tables may include any number of features, none of
the features are required.
[00157]     As seen in Figures 30-36, the table 10 may include a leg clip 140 that is sized and
configured to secure the support structure 28 and/or leg 30 in a fixed position relative to the
table top 12 when the support structure 28 is in a collapsed position. For example, as best
seen in Figures 34 and 35, the leg clip 140 may include a base 142 with a generally square or
rectangular configuration with tapered edges 144.       The leg clip 140 may also include a
receiving portion 146 with two upwardly extending arms 148, 150. The arms 148, 150 may
move or elastically deform when a portion of the support structure 28 is inserted into the
opening 152 disposed between the ends of the arms.           When the support structure 28 is

                                                -) I
disposed between the arms 148, 150, the arms may resiliently return to their previous
configuration to maintain the support structure 28 in a fixed position.
[00158]     The base 142 may be at least partially attached to and/or disposed in a depression
or receiving portion 154 in the lower portion 16 of the table top 12.         For example, the
receiving portion 154 may include an opening that is slightly smaller than the base 142 so that
once the base is inserted into the opening, the base may be securely disposed within the
receiving portion.    In addition, the base 142 may include an upper surface 156 that is
generally aligned within or disposed below the lower surface 16 of the table top 12.
Additionally, as shown in Figures 32 and 33, the leg clip 140 may be at least partially
disposed within a groove or channel 160 in the lower surface 16 of the table top 12. For
instance, the channel 160 may be formed in the lower surface 16 of the table top 12 to receive
a portion of the support structure 28 in the collapsed position. As shown in the accompanying
figures, the leg clip 140 may be at least partially disposed within the channel 160. If desired,
the base 142 may be disposed at least partially disposed in a depression 162 formed in the
lower surface 16 of the table top 12. The base 142 may also be disposed at an angle relative
to the depressions 162.     Further, one or more of the depressions 162 may be formed in the
channel 160 and the leg clip 140 may be at least partially disposed in a depression in the
channel.
[00159]     As shown in Figures 31 and 36-40, the table 10 may include spacers, inserts or
pads 170, which may facilitate stacking of the tables.        For example, when tables 10 are
stacked and/or nested for manufacturing, transportation, storage, display and the like, a
significant amount of weight or force may be applied to the tables. The weight or force may
be particularly significant for the tables 10 disposed towards the lower portion of the stack.
The pads 170 may include a clip 172 that is sized and configured to be attached to a portion of
the frame 36, such as cross members 38, 40, 52, support structures 28 and/or other suitable
portion of the table 10. The pad 170 may include a generally planar contact surface 174 that
is sized and configured to contact an upper surface 14 of a nested table. The pad 170 may

help distribute weight or force more equally, evenly and/or over a larger surface area of the
adjacent table. Advantageously, because the pad 170 may be attached by the clip 172, that
may allow the pad to be easily and quickly attached and/or removed by the manufacturer,
retailer and/or consumers. In addition, the number of pads 170 may depend upon the number
of tables 10 to be stacked. For instance, a larger number of pads 170 may be used if a greater
number of tables 10 are to be stacked or if the tables have to support a larger weight or force.
[00160]      Still another aspect is a table 10 that may include one or more foot caps 180
attached to feet 182 of the support structures 28 and/or legs 30. For example, the table 10
may include the support structure 28 wherein the legs are elongated members 30 connected by
a connecting member 32. The elongated members 30 may be constructed from tubular pieces
of metal with a generally circular, oval, oblong, rectangular or other suitable cross-sectional
configuration. The elongated members 30 may be bent or curved such that the upper portions
of the elongated members are spaced closer together than the lower portions of the elongated
members.     The bending the elongated members 30 into the desired shape or configuration
may cause the ends of the elongated members to be disposed at an angle X, such as about 80.
The foot caps 180 are preferably sized and configured to be attached to the ends of the support
members 30 and include a lower surface that is disposed parallel to the floor. In particular,
the foot caps 180 desirably compensate for the angled end of the elongated members 30 so
that the table 10 rests securely and in a stable position relative to the floor.
[00161]     As seen in Figures 41-47, the elongated member 30 may be inserted into an upper
portion 184 of the foot cap 180.        The elongated members 30 and the foot cap 180 may
include alignment members to help ensure the foot cap is correctly positioned. For instance,
the elongated member 30 may include an alignment member 186, such as a notch, cutout,
groove, indentation or the like; and the foot cap 180 may include a corresponding alignment
member 188, such as a projection, protrusion, protuberance or the like.          The alignment
members 186, 188 may help ensure the elongated members 30 and foot caps 180 are correctly

orientated. The foot caps 180 may further include a lower portion 190 that may be sized and
configured to contact a support surface such as the ground or floor.
[00162]     As shown in Figures 48 and 49, the table 10 may include a handle 192 that is
disposed at one or both ends 26 of the table top 12. The handle 192 is preferably sized and
configured to facilitate moving and transporting the table 10. In addition, the handle 192 may
assist in separating the tables 10 in the nested configuration. The handle 192 may consist of a
recess or opening in the downwardly lip 20 of a table top 12 and the handle may be integrally
formed with the table top as part of a unitary, one-piece construction. Thus, the table 10 may
include handles 192 disposed in both ends 26 of the table top 12 and openings 90 disposed in
the sides 22 of the table top. Therefore, the lip 20 in each side of the table top 12 may include
an opening or recess.      The openings 90 along the sides 22 of the table top 12, however, may
be much longer than the handles 192 in the ends 26 of the table top, by a factor such as five,
ten, twenty or more.
[00163]     One of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate after reviewing this disclosure that
the tables disclosed herein may have a number of different aspects, features, characteristics
and configurations.     Further, a table may have any suitable number of aspects, features,
characteristics and configurations depending, for example, upon the intended use of the table.
[00164]     For example, the depressions may have other suitable shapes, sizes, configurations
and arrangements, such as disclosed in Assignee's U.S. patent no. 7,069,865, entitled HIGH
STRENGTH, LIGHTWEIGHT BLOW-MOLDED PLASTIC STRUCTURES, issued July 4,
2006, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In addition, the table may have other
suitable features and configurations, such as disclosed in Assignee's U.S. patent application
serial no. 11/372,515,      entitled HIGH-STRENGTH, LIGHTWEIGHT BLOW-MOLDED
PLASTIC STRUCTURES, filed March 9, 2006, currently pending, which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
[00165]     It will be understood that the table 10 may include other suitable features, aspects,
configurations and the like, such as disclosed in Assignee's U.S. patent application serial no.

                                                   j -r
13/455,055, entitled FRAME FOR A TABLE, filed April 24, 2012 (attorney docket no.
L1006.10611US01); U.S. patent application serial no. 13/455,073, entitled TABLE WITH
MOLDED          PLASTIC      TABLE     TOP,    filed    April 24,   2012    (attorney  docket   no.
L1006.10612US01); U.S. patent application serial no. 13/455,076, entitled TABLE WITH
MOLDED          PLASTIC      TABLE     TOP,    filed    April 24,   2012    (attorney  docket   no.
L1006.10613US01); U.S. patent application serial no. 13/455,081, entitled TABLES TOP,
filed April 24, 2012 (attorney docket no. L1006.10614US01); and U.S. patent application
serial no.      13/455,066,  entitled  TABLE, filed April 24, 2012 (attorney            docket no.
L1006.10615US01).         Each of these patents and applications are incorporated by reference in
its entirety.
[00166]       Although this invention has been described in terms of certain preferred
embodiments, other embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are also within
the scope of this invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention is intended to be defined
only by the claims which follow.
[00167]       It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
[00168]       In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                             CLAIMS
         1.      A table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent table to reduce a height
of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of the plurality of stacked
tables having substantially the same size and configuration, the table comprising:
                 a table top constructed from molded plastic, the table top comprising:
                         a generally planar upper surface; and
                         a nesting portion at least partially disposed in the upper surface of the
                 table top; and
                 a frame connected to the table top, the frame comprising:
                         a generally planar contact surface sized and configured to contact a
                 generally planar upper surface of an adjacent table when the table is nested
                 with an adjacent table; and
                         an engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in a nesting
                 portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested with an adjacent table.
        2.       The table as in claim 1, wherein the engaging portion extends downwardly
relative to the generally planar contact surface; and
                 wherein the engaging portion is disposed at approximately a right angle
        relative to the generally planar contact surface.
        3.       The table as in claim 1, wherein the nesting portion is disposed in an outer
perimeter of upper surface of the table top.

                                                 J U
        4.      The table as in claim 3, further comprising:
                a sidewall of the nesting portion that is disposed generally perpendicular to the
        upper surface of the table top and generally parallel to an outer surface of the table
        top; and
                a lower surface of the nesting portion that is disposed generally parallel to the
        upper surface of the table top and generally perpendicular to the outer surface of the
        table top.
        5.      The table as in claim 1, further comprising a lip disposed at least proximate an
outer perimeter of the table top, the lip including a lip engaging portion that is sized and
configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested
with an adjacent table.
        6.      The table as in claim 5, wherein at least a portion of the lip engaging portion
and at least a portion of the engaging portion of the frame are sized and configured to be
simultaneously disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested with
an adjacent table.
        7.      The table as in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the engaging portion of
the frame is at least generally aligned and coplanar with an outer edge of the table top.
        8.      The table as in claim 1, wherein the generally planar contact surface of the
frame has a wall thickness measured between an inner surface and an outer surface; and
        wherein the engaging portion of the frame has a thickness generally equal to or great
than twice the wall thickness of the generally planar contact surface.

                                                 J /
        9.      The table as in claim 1, wherein the engaging portion of the frame extends
outwardly from a body of the frame.
        10.     The table as in claim 1, wherein the generally planar contact surface of the
frame is disposed immediately adjacent to the engaging portion of the frame; and
        wherein the generally planar contact surface and the engaging portion of the frame
form part of a contiguous structure.
        11.     A table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent table to reduce a height
of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of the plurality of stacked
tables having substantially the same size and configuration, the table comprising:
                a table top constructed from molded plastic, the table top comprising:
                        a generally planar upper surface;
                        a nesting portion at least partially disposed in the generally planar
                upper surface of the table top; and
                        a lip extending downwardly relative to the generally planar upper
                surface of the table top; and
                a frame connected to the table top, the frame comprising:
                        a generally planar contact surface sized and configured to contact a
                generally planar upper surface of an adjacent table when the table is nested
                with an adjacent table; and
                        a frame engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in a
                nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested with an adjacent
                table.
        12.     The table as in claim 11, further comprising a lip engaging portion sized and
configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested

with an adjacent table, at least a portion of the lip engaging portion and at least a portion of
the frame engaging portion sized and configured to be simultaneously disposed in a nesting
portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested with an adjacent table.
        13.     The table as in claim 11, wherein the frame engaging portion extends
downwardly relative to the generally planar contact surface.
        14.     The table as in claim 11, further comprising:
                a sidewall of the nesting portion that is disposed generally perpendicular to the
        generally planar upper surface of the table top; and
                a lower surface of the nesting portion that is disposed generally parallel to the
        generally planar upper surface of the table top.
        15.     The table as in claim 11, wherein the table top is constructed from blow
molded plastic and the table top is constructed as part of a unitary, one-piece structure during
the blow-molding process.
        16.     The table as in claim 11, wherein the generally planar contact surface of the
frame has a wall thickness measured between an inner surface and an outer surface; and
        wherein the engaging portion of the frame has a thickness generally equal to twice the
wall thickness of the generally planar contact surface of the frame.
        17.     The table as in claim 11, wherein the generally planar contact surface of the
frame is disposed immediately adjacent to the engaging portion of the frame; and
        wherein the generally planar contact surface and the engaging portion of the frame
form part of a contiguous structure.

        18.     The table as in claim 11, further comprising a lip engaging portion sized and
configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested
with an adjacent table, the lip engaging portion at least partially formed by a compression
edge of a lower portion of the lip.
        19.     The table as in claim 11, further comprising a lip engaging portion sized and
configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested
with an adjacent table, the lip engaging portion comprising a compression edge in a corner of
the table top and a compression edge along a side of the table top; and
        wherein the frame engaging portion, the compression edge in the corner of the table
top and the compression edge along the side of the table top are simultaneously disposed in a
nesting portion of an adjacent table when the table is nested with an adjacent table.
        20.     The table as in claim 11, wherein the molded plastic table top has a wall
thickness measured between an inner surface and an outer surface; and
        wherein the lip engaging portion includes a compression edge with a thickness
generally equal to twice the wall thickness.

                                                       <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
               18                                                    10
                                                12
22
     80                                                         14
          90
                                                                                24
                    50A 48
     28
                                42                                         26
                                                                                     1 / 32
                                           46
     30               32         30
                                                     50A
                                                                           28
                                      30                   32              30
                             Fig. 1

<removed-date>
                                                           2 / 32
                         10
                                                      30                      32
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                          28
                                                                              50A
                                                  3                                                  26
                                                                                                          24
                                        36
                                                                                                          38
                                   42
                                                                                                    50B
                              32                                                               12
              28                                                                          44
                    30                                                               52
                                                                                16
               20                                                        40
                                                                    22
                                             26
                                                           Fig. 2

                                                     <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                           24
                                     64
                                20
                         76
                    88                                        16            3 / 32
               70
          74
     42                                                       38
52
56
                60                    66   62   12
                              Fig. 3

                                                            <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                                                               68
                                                       60
                                                                     84
               42
                                                              58
                                                       82
                                             84
                                                              60                         42
                                        80
                                 84                                                                4 / 32
                                                  62
                          78                                              58
                     84
                                                              54
                                                                                        82
                54                                            56
                                                                                        80
          76                                                              72
62   84
                                                                   70     74                  68
70                                                                        76
                                                                                        78
                               Fig. 4
                                                                   Fig. 5

                                                       <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                         78                 76 70 74   42    54
22
                                                                                5 / 32
     90
          92
               80
                    20
                         82    94
                               72      58      64      60   66    62
                              Fig. 6

                                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    14
                                                                 100
                      10                                         20
           12
                                              8                         6 / 32
     100
                                                                       20
                                                             8
24
20                                       80
20
            26             90
                 24
                           Fig. 7

                                          <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
     28   102   62       42          60   64     54        10
10
                                                                           82
                                                                           92
                                                                           112   7 / 32
10                                                                         110
                                                                           80
                                                                           100
                                                                           76
                                                                           104
                                                                           90
                                                                           112
     28   102                 42
                                   116
                                    70         118    78        92    80
                                    74
                Fig. 8

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
42
                   20
88
 54
                   80
                   20
 70                74                         8 / 32
                   110
116                76
                   100      H
102
                   106
                   78/118
108                104
                   22
               W
      Fig. 9

                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     200
                   12
                                                    24
                                                    22
                        216
26           204
                                                    9 / 32
                                               28
28
           Fig. 10

                                         <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
            200
                         14        20
      108
100
106
24
112
            110     90                     210         204
                         Fig. 11                                  10 / 32
                                                 202
                                   210
                  206
                  204              212
                  216
                  208
                         Fig. 12

                                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 200
                 14                                           14
                                                                            14     11 / 32
                                                       206
26                                               204
     114
           200
                      112              110
                            24
                                             Fig. 13

                                    <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
200
                212     204                214    108          100
                        210
                                                               106
                                                               20
                                                               216
                                                               106   12 / 32
                                                               110
                                                               208
                                                               20
                      212     210    206         208     216
      Fig. 14

<removed-date>
                                                      13 / 32
                      200                                 202
                                                                      214
                                                          226
<removed-apn>
                                              222
                                        220
                                  224
                            208
                    206
                                                                212
              204
                                                    Fig. 15
                      200
                                                    202               214
                                                    226
                                  220
                                  222
                                  224
                            208
                    206
                                                                212
                                                    Fig. 16

<removed-date>
                                                         14 / 32
                      200
                                                       202                                         214
                                                       226
                                                 220
<removed-apn>
                                            18
                                      222
                                      224
                                208
                    206
                                                                                           232
                                                                                      18
                                                                               212
              204
                                                       Fig. 17
                                                                         214    232
                          208
                          216                                                                212
                          202
                          206
                          220
                                                                   222
                                                                   210
                          228                                      230
                          100
                                                                   14
                                                       Fig. 18

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     300
                12
                                           24
                                           22
               304
                                            15 / 32
28
                                      28
           Fig. 19

                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                           300
                  302   304   314
306
308                                                        12
22
316
                                                                   16 / 32
310
312
320
22
316
      100   304         310    312      12
                              Fig. 20

                                                               <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                               12
                                                                                      300
24
24
                                                                                 14
             22
                                      22
                                                                                                    17 / 32
                                                                                        26
                                                                     26
                                                Fig. 21
       322                    304     14   28             12   28   14     312   310         314    304
                                                                                                    22
                                                                                                    306
                                                                                                    308
 308
 306                                                                                                22
       314        310   312     304
                                      14   28             12   28   14    304                 322
                                                Fig. 22

<removed-date>
                         18 / 32
              400
                    12
                                   25
                                                    25
<removed-apn>
                                        402
                                              28
              28
                         Fig. 23
              400
                    12
                                              402
                                              28
              28
                         Fig. 24

                                                <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                                                                       400
                             12       12                    18         408
                                                                       406
                                                                       404
                                      28         410
                                                 412                   402
                            Fig. 25
      406                                                                    400    19 / 32
                      408                  12          14
410
                      404
                                                                                   414
412                   402
                                                                 402
            Fig. 26                             Fig. 27

                                              <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                                404
414                                                                     414
414                                                                     414
      416                                       404               416
                  Fig. 28
                                                                        20 / 32
            404                                       404
                                                404
                                        414
                                  414
            404
                            416
                  Fig. 29

<removed-date>
                                                   21 / 32
                     10
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                       28
                                                                                                  170
                                                                                                            20
                                             170
                                                                                                            24
                                         16
                                                                                                            38
                                  140
                                 42                                                               12
                           170                                                              140
               28
                                                                                           44
                                                                                         170
                    140
                                                                                    52
                                                                              140
              170
                                                                         32
                                                                   170
                                                                  40
                          192                                22
                                        26
                                                   Fig. 30

<removed-date>
                                                           22 / 32
                     10
<removed-apn>                                                                 20
                                                                                                 36
                                                     170                                                       170
                                                                                                                     24
                                                16
                                                                                                                     38
                                          140
                                     42                                                                   12
                                                                                                        28
                               170                                                                    140
                          28                                                                       44
                                                                                                 170
                    140
                                                                                            52
                                                                                      140
              170
                                                                                 32
                                                                                 33
                                                                           170
                                                                          40
                               192                                   22
                                                26
                                                           Fig. 31

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     12
                                32
                                                              160
140                             28
160
                                                                    23 / 32
                                                            154
                          154
                                                            162
                          162
                                12
      16
                                     16
           Fig. 32                         Fig. 33

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                152
150                                                        142
                              144
140
                                                           140
                                                                       24 / 32
                      148
                              150
                                                                 146
                        146
                                                           148
156                   142
                                    152
144
      Fig. 34                                Fig. 35

                <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                       25 / 32
                        170
174                     38
172
      Fig. 36

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                170
174
                      172
                                                     26 / 32
172
                                               170
      Fig. 37                  Fig. 38

                                                          <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                                     12
                                          10
                                40                                              22
          192                                                                    27 / 32
                                     14                                         22
24
                                                                   40
20   26
                192
                      20   26
                                24
                                           Fig. 39

                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
100   52   14   170             170    10             100
42                                                    44
                                                           28 / 32
42                                                    44
                170             170    10
                      Fig. 40

<removed-date>
                                       29 / 32
                     184
                                                                       184
<removed-apn>
                                                                       188
              180
                                 190
                                                                       180
                           190
                                                       190
                    Fig. 41                                  Fig. 42
                                                                       28/30
                                                                       182
                                 190             186
                                 180
                                                                       184
                                                 180
                                                                       190
                                                 190
                    Fig. 43                                  Fig. 44

                                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                  30
                           30
           30
28
                                                                               30 / 32
                32                                                       182
                                            32
                                            186
                                      182
                                180         188
     180                                                           180
                                            184                    190
                 Fig. 45                             Fig. 46

                          <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
      30                  30
                                                 31 / 32
                     32
                                  182
                                  X
180
                           180
           Fig. 47

<removed-date>
                                              32 / 32
              10
                                                                                   12
<removed-apn>
                                                    14
                                                                                         22
              14
                                                                                         24
                                                              192             20
                                         20
                                              Fig. 48
                        10
                                                         12
                             192
                                                                    14
                   26
                                   192
                                               20                                   90
                                                                         24   22
                                              Fig. 49

