A WIRELESS ENHANCED SOUND SYSTEM AND RETROFIT CONTROL
MODULE
Abstract
A wireless enhanced sound system 11 which is adapted for use with an audio
transmitter 41, the wireless enhanced sound system including: a retrofit control module
31; an amplifier system having a first speaker system 42 being a vehicle audio system;
and an enhancing amplifier speaker system 32, 51 separate from the vehicle audio
system; wherein the retrofit control module includes: an input means for receiving an
audio input wirelessly from an audio source 21, 22; and an output means having a first
transmitter for wirelessly connecting to the amplifier of the first speaker system, and a
second transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing amplifier
speaker system; wherein the wireless enhanced system coherently delivers audio
from the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing
enhanced amplification of the audio source; and wherein the retrofit control module is
mountable to a steering wheel of the vehicle.

                       35
                     5
                    Uv43 m
                                               Different size and shape variation of
                                                  air port depending on sub and
                                                enclosure size also helps the amp
      22                                                  cooling process.
21                                                           2 37
                                                           32
                                  AME
          Truismnlmr/bdcever
   31
34
                                      5 AS.Teb            51
                VdiiksA~               lMw.S.Trob
41       d
             42
                         FIGURE 4

                                                   I
     A WIRELESS ENHANCED SOUND SYSTEM AND RETROFIT CONTROL MODULE
   Related Applications
 5 [001a] This application is a divisional application of international patent application no.
   PCT/AU2016/000124 filed on 8 April 2016, and claims priority to Australian provisional
   patent application no. 2015901248 filed on 8 April 2015; This application is also related to
   Australian patent application no. <removed-apn> filed on 7 April 2017. The entire contents of
   each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.
 0
   Field of the Invention
   [001]The present invention relates to a wireless enhanced sound system and in particular
   to a wireless enhanced sound system in a vehicle.
   [002] The invention has been developed primarily for use in/with vehicle sound systems
 5 and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application. However, it will be
   appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
   Background of the Invention
   [003]A vehicle sound system is customarily included in the original specifications of the
 0 vehicle when purchased. The components are hard wired and therefore limited to the
   original specification. However the quality and effect of the sound system will then match
   the cost of the vehicle. If it is an expensive luxury car then there is a great sound system.
   But if the vehicle is anything other than an expensive luxury car the sound system is often
   not to the standard required.
25 [004] With the hard wiring of systems it is necessary to fully remove the original sound
   system or to include a second sound system mounted in a secondary position. These
   options are expensive and often aesthetically downgrades the look of the interior of the
   vehicle.
   [005] A further aspect in the sound system is the new choice of storage of music for play
30 on a sound system. Generally most music is now downloaded onto hard drives in mobile
   phones or iPod or audio hard drives in MP3 or MP4 format or the like. Therefore the
   source of the audio for sound system is separate and needs to be plugged into the
   auxiliary port of the vehicle sound system. This is irritating to find the right cords. Also
   the mobile phone is tethered to the spot and therefore readily forgotten when leaving the

                                                   2
   vehicle or otherwise inconvenient when in use in legally allowable circumstances
   requiring disconnection and reconnection.
   [006]The present invention seeks to provide a wireless enhanced sound system, which
 5 will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least one or more of the deficiencies of the
   prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
   [007] It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common
   general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
 0
   Summary of the Invention
   [008]According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is shown a wireless
   enhanced sound system which is adapted for use with an audio transmitter comprising a
   control module; an amplifier system having a first speaker system; and a separate
 5 enhancing amplifier speaker system; wherein the control module includes: an input
   means for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an audio source; and an output means
   having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to the amplifier of the first speaker
   system; and a second transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing
   amplifier speaker system; wherein the wireless enhanced system coherently delivers
 0 audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for
   providing enhanced amplification of the audio source.
   [009]The audio source can be a portable audio input. Particularly the audio source can
   be a portable audio input that wirelessly transmits via Bluetooth to the control module, or
   wirelessly transmits via Wi-Fi to the control module, or wirelessly transmits via FM radio
25 transmission to the control module.
   [0010]       In one form the audio source can be a mobile phone or iPod or other portable
   audio input.
   [0011]       The wireless enhanced sound system can have the amplifier system with the
   first speaker system being a vehicle audio system for wirelessly receiving audio signal
30 from the first transmitter.
   [0012]       The amplifier system can have the first speaker system wirelessly receives
   audio signal from the first transmitter by Bluetooth, or wirelessly receives audio signal

                                                  3
   from the first transmitter by Wi-Fi or wirelessly receives audio signal from the first
   transmitter by FM radio transmission.
   [0013]      The wireless enhanced sound system can include the amplifier system having
   the first speaker system being a vehicle audio system and including a receiver for
 5 receiving audio signal transmitted wirelessly from the first transmitter
   [0014]      Preferably the amplifier system has a first speaker system receiving the full
   audio signal while the second amplifier receives audio signal substantially in the range of
   5 Hertz and 500 Hertz from the second transmitter.
   [0015]      The system preferably coherently delivers audio from the audio source to the
 0 first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the
   audio source by simultaneously transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and
   the second transmitter.
   [0016]      However the system preferably can in one form coherently delivers audio from
   the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced
 5 amplification of the audio source by simultaneously transmitting the audio source to the
   first transmitter and the second transmitter.
   [0017]      Preferably the system coherently delivers audio from the audio source to the
   first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the
   audio source by the control module separating the audio signal substantially in the range
 0 of 5 Hertz and 500 Hertz to the second transmitter.
   [0018]      The separate enhancing amplifier speaker system can be a separate amplifier
   speaker system with a wireless receiver for receiving audio signal from the second
   transmitter of the output means of the control module.
   [0019]      Preferably the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system can be a separate
25 subwoofer system with a wireless receiver for receiving audio signal from the second
   transmitter of the output means of the control module.
   [0020]      Preferably the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a separate
   subwoofer system with a wireless receiver for receiving audio signal substantially in the
   range of 5 Hertz to 500 Hertz from the second transmitter of the output means of the
30 control module.
   [0021]      Preferably the system coherently delivers audio from the audio source to the
   first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the

                                                  4
   audio source by transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and the second
   transmitter in a respective delayed manner depending on the difference in processing of
   the signal in the first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker
   system..
 5 [0022]      The wireless enhanced sound system can have the separate enhancing
   amplifier speaker system being a separate subwoofer system which includes
       a) a subwoofer speaker
       b) an amplifier for the subwoofer
       c) an air-port for cooling the subwoofer and amplifier.
 0 [0023]      Preferably the air-port is tubular with a radius substantially in the range of 5
   cubic centimetres to 50 cubic centimetres.
   [0024]      Further, the air-port can be adapted with the subwoofer speaker to enhance
   the audio of the subwoofer speaker.
   [0025]      Preferably the separate subwoofer system is powerable through a power point
 5 on the vehicle. In one form the power point on the vehicle can be a cigarette lighter port
   or similar vehicle auxiliary power port.
   [0026]      A wireless enhanced sound system for enhancing a vehicle with a first speaker
   system can comprise a wireless control unit and a portable separate subwoofer system
   wherein the control unit includes a control module including: an input means for receiving
 0 an audio input wirelessly from an audio source; and an output means having a first
   transmitter for wirelessly connecting to the first speaker system; and a second transmitter
   able to wirelessly connect to the subwoofer speaker system; wherein the wireless
   enhanced system coherently delivers audio from the audio source to the first transmitter
   and the second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source.
25 [0027]      The invention also provides a method of enhancing a vehicle sound system
   including the steps of:
       a) Providing a portable subwoofer system having a receiver for receiving audio signal
          wirelessly;
       b) Providing a control module including an input means for receiving an audio input
30        wirelessly from an audio source; and an output means having a first transmitter for
          wirelessly connecting to the amplifier of the first speaker system; and a second

                                                     5
            transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing amplifier speaker
            system;
        c) coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the
            second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source by
 5          transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter in
            a respective delayed manner depending on the difference in processing of the
            signal in the first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker
            system..
   [0028]         The method can further include the step of
 0      d) providing a separate enhancing amplifier speaker system in a separate subwoofer
            system including
            i) a subwoofer speaker
            ii) an amplifier for the subwoofer
            iii) an air-port for cooling the subwoofer amplifier.
 5 [0029]         Preferably the air-port is tubular with a radius substantially in the range of 5
   cubic centimetres to 50 cubic centimetres.
   [0030]         Preferably the air-port is adapted with the subwoofer speaker to enhance the
   audio of the subwoofer speaker.
   [0031]         In accordance with another aspect of the invention, there is provided a wireless
 0 enhanced sound system which is adapted for use with an audio transmitter, the wireless
   enhanced sound system including: a retrofit control module; an amplifier system having
   a first speaker system being a vehicle audio system; and an enhancing amplifier speaker
   system separate from the vehicle audio system; wherein the retrofit control module
   includes: an input means for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an audio source;
25 and an output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to the amplifier
   of the first speaker system, and a second transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the
   separate enhancing amplifier speaker system; wherein the wireless enhanced system
   coherently delivers audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the second
   transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source; and wherein the
30 retrofit control module is mountable to a steering wheel of the vehicle.
   [0032]         In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a retrofit
   control module for controlling a wireless enhanced sound system, the wireless enhanced

                                                   6
   sound system being adapted for use with an audio transmitter and including: an amplifier
   system having a first speaker system being an original or pre-existing vehicle sound
   system, and a separate enhancing amplifier speaker system; wherein the retrofit control
   module includes: an input means for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an audio
 5 source; and an output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to the
   amplifier of the first speaker system, and a second transmitter able to wirelessly connect
   to the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system; wherein the retrofit control module
   coherently supplies audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the second
   transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source; and wherein the
 0 retrofit control module is mountable to a steering wheel of a vehicle.
   [0033]        The retrofit control module may be mountable to the steering wheel of a vehicle
   to be positioned adjacent an inside curved surface of the steering wheel. The control
   module may include a domed top, such that a curved surface of the domed top is shaped
   to fit adjacent the inside curved surface of the steering wheel.
 5 [0034]        The retrofit control module may include a multi-turn control which is centrally
   located on the retrofit control module. The multi-turn control may be located on the retrofit
   control module such that the multi-turn control is positioned close to the steering wheel
   when the retrofit control module is mounted to the steering wheel.
   [0035]        The audio source for the wireless enhanced sound system may be a portable
 0 audio input that wirelessly transmits via FM radio transmission to the control module.
   [0036]        The amplifier system may have a first speaker system that wirelessly receives
   audio signal from the first transmitter by FM radio transmission.
   [0037]        The separate enhancing amplifier speaker system may be a portable
   subwoofer speaker system. The separate enhancing amplifier speaker system may be a
25 subwoofer speaker system which includes:
          i) a subwoofer speaker;
          ii) an amplifier for the subwoofer; and
          iii) an air-port for cooling the subwoofer amplifier, and wherein the air-port is
   adapted with the subwoofer speaker to enhance the audio of the subwoofer speaker.
30 [0038]        The retrofit control module may be adapted to control the temperature of the
   subwoofer speaker system via a temperature monitor which monitors the temperature of
   the subwoofer.

                                                   7
   [0039]       In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method
   of enhancing a vehicle sound system including the steps of:
          a. providing an enhancing amplifier speaker system separate from the vehicle
   sound system and having a receiver for receiving audio signal wirelessly;
 5        b. providing a control module mountable to a steering wheel of the vehicle, the
   control module including: an input means for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an
   audio source; and an output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to
   an amplifier of a first speaker system being the vehicle audio system, and a second
   transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing amplifier speaker
 0 system; and
          c. coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the
   second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source by
   transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter in a
   respective delayed manner depending on the difference in processing of the signal in
 5 the first speaker system and the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system.
   [0040]       In accordance with yet a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a
   method of controlling an enhanced vehicle sound system including the steps of:
          a. providing a retrofit control module including an input means for receiving an
   audio input wirelessly from an audio source; and an output means having a first
 0 transmitter for wirelessly connecting to an amplifier of a first speaker system being a
   vehicle audio system; and a second transmitter able to wirelessly connect to a separate
   enhancing amplifier speaker system having a receiver for receiving audio signals
   wirelessly,
          b. mounting the retrofit control module to a steering wheel of the vehicle;
25        c. coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the
   second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source by
   transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter in a
   respective delayed manner depending on the difference in processing of the signal in
   the first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker system;
30 and
          d. controlling the enhanced vehicle sound system using the retrofit control module.
   [0041]       In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, there is provided method
   of controlling an enhanced vehicle sound system including the steps of:

                                                   8
          a. providing an enhancing amplifier speaker system having a receiver for receiving
   audio signal wirelessly;
          b. providing a retrofit control module including an input means for receiving an
   audio input wirelessly from an audio source; and an output means having a first
 5 transmitter for wirelessly connecting to an amplifier of a first speaker system being an
   original or pre-existing vehicle audio system; and a second transmitter able to wirelessly
   connect to a separate enhancing amplifier speaker system;
          c. mounting the retrofit control module to a steering wheel of a vehicle;
          d. coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the
 0 second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source by
   transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter in a
   respective delayed manner depending on the difference in processing of the signal in
   the first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker system; and
          e. controlling the enhanced vehicle sound system using the retrofit control module.
 5 [0042]        It can be seen that the invention of a wireless enhanced sound system
   provides the benefit of
                (1) easy use,
                (2) enhanced sound
                (3) enhanced sourcing
 0              (4) easy powering
                (5) improved cooling
   [0043]         Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
25 [0044]        Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
   invention, preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
          Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic view of a wireless enhanced sound system in accordance
          with a first preferred embodiment of the present invention; and
30        Fig. 2 is a diagrammatic view of a wireless enhanced sound system in accordance
          with a second preferred embodiment of the present invention; and

                                            9
   Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic view of a wireless enhanced sound system in accordance
   with a third preferred embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 4 is a diagrammatic view of a wireless enhanced sound system in accordance
   with a fourth preferred embodiment of the present invention;
 5 Fig. 5 is a diagrammatic view of a wireless enhanced sound system in accordance
   with a third preferred embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic view of a first version of the Drive Buddy TM control unit for
   use in the wireless enhanced sound system of Figure 5 in accordance with a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention;
 0 Figs. 7 & 8 are diagrammatic views of further shaped versions of the Drive Buddy TM
   control unit for use in the wireless enhanced sound system of Figure 5 in accordance
   with a preferred embodiments of the present invention;
   Fig. 9 is a photographic view of a version of the Drive Buddy    TM control unit in use
   on a steering wheel of a vehicle for use in the wireless enhanced sound system of
 5 Figure 5 in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
   Figs. 10 & 11 are two further diagrammatic views of two further shaped versions of
   the Drive Buddy TM control unit for use within the top of the steering wheel or within
   the bottom of the steering wheel in the wireless enhanced sound system of Figure
   5 in accordance with a preferred embodiments of the present invention;
 0 Fig. 12 is a diagrammatic block diagram of a wireless enhanced sound system in
   accordance with a fifth preferred embodiment of the present invention without
   amplifier or a sixth preferred embodiment of the present invention without amplifier;
   Fig. 13 is a diagrammatic block diagram of Bluetooth remote control and subwoofer
   a wireless enhanced sound system in accordance with the fifth or sixth preferred
25 embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 14 is a diagrammatic block diagram of a wireless enhanced sound system in
   accordance with the sixth preferred embodiment of the present invention; and
   Fig. 15 is a diagrammatic block diagram of a wireless enhanced sound system in
   accordance with the sixth preferred embodiment of the present invention.
30

                                                 10
   Description of Preferred Embodiments
   [0045]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference
   numerals in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
   [0046]      Referring to the drawings there is shown a wireless enhanced sound system
 5 11 which is adapted for use with an audio transmitter 41 being an FM radio in a vehicle.
   This is connected to the standard speaker system 42.
   [0047]      However the enhanced sound system includes a control module 31 which
   controls transmission from the audio input 21, 22 to an amplifier system having a first
   speaker system; and a separate enhancing amplifier speaker system; wherein the control
 0 module includes:
   [0048]      The input means of the control module 31 is for receiving an audio input
   wirelessly from an audio source 21, 22; and an output means having a first transmitter for
   wirelessly connecting to the amplifier 41 of the first speaker system and a second
   transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system
 5 having amplifier 32 and speaker 51 wherein the wireless enhanced system coherently
   delivers audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for
   providing enhanced amplification of the audio source.
   [0049]      The audio source is a portable audio input such as a USB or SD card 22 or a
   mobile phone 21 or iPod or other portable audio input. Particularly the audio source is a
 0 portable audio input such as a mobile phone 21 that wirelessly transmits via Bluetooth to
   the control module 31, or wirelessly transmits via Wi-Fi to the control module, or wirelessly
   transmits via FM radio transmission to the control module.
   [0050]      The amplifier system has the first speaker system 41, 42 wirelessly receiving
   audio signal from the first transmitter by Bluetooth, or wirelessly receives audio signal
25 from the first transmitter by Wi-Fi or wirelessly receives audio signal from the first
   transmitter by FM radio transmission.
   [0051]      The wireless enhanced sound system therefore in Figure 1 includes the
   amplifier system having the first speaker system being a vehicle audio system and
   including a receiver 41 for receiving audio signal transmitted wirelessly from the first
30 transmitter 33. The amplifier system has a first speaker system receiving the full audio
   signal while the second amplifier 32 receives audio signal substantially in the range of 5
   Hertz and 500 Hertz from the second transmitter. The system preferably coherently
   delivers audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for

                                                 11
   providing enhanced amplification of the audio source by simultaneously transmitting the
   audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter.
   [0052]      However the system preferably can in one form coherently deliver audio from
   the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced
 5 amplification of the audio source by simultaneously transmitting the audio source to the
   first transmitter and the second transmitter.
   [0053]      Preferably the system coherently delivers audio from the audio source to the
   first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the
   audio source by the control module 31 separating the audio signal substantially in the
 0 range of 5 Hertz and 500 Hertz to the second transmitter 32.
   [0054]      The separate enhancing amplifier speaker system can be a separate amplifier
   speaker system with a wireless receiver for receiving audio signal from the second
   transmitter of the output means of the control module.
   [0055]      The separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a separate subwoofer
 5 system 51 with a wireless receiver for receiving audio signal from the second transmitter
   of the output means of the control module 31.
   [0056]      In Figure 1 the control module 31 receives input from portable source 21, 22
   by wireless transmission and outputs signal through FM transmitter 33 to the vehicle FM
   radio for receipt on particular input FM wavelength and output to its speaker system 42.
 0 At the same time the control module 31 outputs to the amplifier 32 of the second speaker
   system being a sub-woofer system 51.          By the coherent transmission from portable
   source 21, 22 being the mobile phone or the like, which does not need to be tethered or
   otherwise physically connected, to the first speaker system 41, 42 of the vehicle but
   enhanced through the second speaker system 51. This is achieved without the need for
25 hard installation and can be readily powered from auxiliary power through power
   connection 35.
   [0057]      Referring to Figure 2 the flow is altered in that a capacitor is used to enhance
   power of signal and the control module 31 can transmit to first speaker system while also
   outputting to an audio decoder module 33 that directs the amplifier 32 of the secondary
30 speaker system 51.
   [0058]      In Figure 3 there is an enhancement of the secondary speaker system in that
   the amplifier includes an air port for cooling the amplifier while it drives the sub-woofer
   secondary speaker 51.       This air port can also be used to enhance audio as a sound
   chamber.

                                                  12
   [0059]       In Figure 4 there is shown the system of Figure 3 but without the capacitor.
   [0060]       The separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a separate subwoofer
   system with a wireless receiver for receiving audio signal substantially in the range of 5
   Hertz to 500 Hertz from the second transmitter of the output means of the control module.
 5 [0061]       The system coherently delivers audio from the audio source to the first
   transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio
   source by transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter
   in a respective delayed manner depending on the difference in processing of the signal
   in the first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker system.
 0 [0062]       Referring to the embodiment shown in Figure 3 there is a wireless enhanced
   sound system the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a separate subwoofer
   system which includes
   (1) an amplifier for the subwoofer 32
   (2) a subwoofer speaker 51
 5 (3) an air-port for cooling the subwoofer amplifier 37 wherein the air-port is tubular with
         a radius substantially in the range of 5 cubic centimetres to 50 cubic centimetres
         and the air-port is adapted with the subwoofer speaker to enhance the audio of the
         subwoofer speaker.
   [0063]       The tubular shape of the air-port can be of any cross-sectional shape including
 0 circular, square, irregular or multisided.
   [0064]       The separate subwoofer system is powerable through a power point 35 on the
   vehicle and preferably the power point on the vehicle is a cigarette lighter port or similar
   vehicle auxiliary power port.
   [0065]       In each embodiment there is provided a wireless enhanced sound system for
25 enhancing a vehicle with a first speaker system comprising a wireless control unit and a
   portable separate subwoofer system wherein the control unit includes a control module
   including: an input means for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an audio source;
   and an output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to the first
   speaker system; and a second transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the subwoofer
30 speaker system; wherein the wireless enhanced system coherently delivers audio from
   the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced
   amplification of the audio source.
   [0066]       In use the method of enhancing a vehicle sound system including the steps of:

                                                   13
       a) Providing a portable subwoofer system having a receiver for receiving audio signal
           wirelessly;
       b) Providing a control module including an input means for receiving an audio input
           wirelessly from an audio source; and an output means having a first transmitter for
 5         wirelessly connecting to the amplifier of the first speaker system; and a second
           transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing amplifier speaker
           system;
       c) coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first transmitter and the
           second transmitter for providing enhanced amplification of the audio source by
 0         transmitting the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter in
           a respective delayed manner depending on the difference in processing of the
           signal in the first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker
           system.
   [0056]       The method preferably provides a separate enhancing amplifier speaker
 5 system which is a separate subwoofer system including an amplifier for the subwoofer, a
   subwoofer speaker and an air-port for cooling the subwoofer and amplifier wherein the
   air-port is tubular with a radius substantially in the range of 5 cubic centimetres to 50 cubic
   centimetres and the air-port is adapted with the subwoofer speaker to enhance the audio
   of the subwoofer speaker.
 0 [0057]       Referring to Fig. 5 there is shown the configuration of the articles of the system
   in which the mobile phone 21 or other digital communication device can have a playlist
   and be able to communicate by Wi-Fi or Bluetooth to the car radio system 41 or to the
   Drive Buddy    TM control unit 31. The control unit can receive and transmit to the car radio
   41 which is connected by wire or wirelessly to the normal amplifier 42.
25 [0058]       However apart from the normal amplifier the system allows for a portable
   subwoofer to be installed and controlled by the Drive Buddy TM control unit 31 in unison
   and complementing the normal amplifier 42. This is achieved by the subwoofer control
   32 having wireless receiver for receiving communication from the control unit 31. The
   subwoofer control 32 which can include an amplifier to drive the sub-woofer 51 will be
30 attached to the subwoofer with wired connector. The connector would be on the rear of
   the device and subwoofer and as such would not be visible to the user.
   [0059]       Referring to Figure 6 there is a first version of the Drive Buddy TM control unit
   31. This comprises a body 11 shaped to hold a rectangular screen 62 and a domed top
   wherein between the top curved surface and the screen are control buttons.

                                                  14
   [0060]      The control buttons include a multi-turn control 63 which allows for scrolling
   through the listings as displayed on the screen and as communicated from the control
   unit memory or the mobile phone memory. Therefore the system allows ready interaction
   of your mobile devices as you move into the vehicle without difficulty. The multi-turn
 5 control 63 is mounted centrally so that it is equally accessible from the left or right side.
   [0061]      Other buttons in the Drive Buddy TM control unit 31 are a play/stop/skip button
   64 and a phone connect button 65 for allowing two communication by Wi-Fi or Bluetooth
   between the phone and the control unit.         One part of the buttons can relate to music
   commands while the others relate to phone commands. However the operation can be
 0 intertwined with overlap of the modes associated with the button controls.
   [0062]      The Drive Buddy TM control unit 31 as shown in Figure 9 can be shaped and
   sized to fit within the steering wheel 80 of the vehicle and therefore be easily retrofitted
   and easily handled by the driver in similar ways to other steering wheel mounted controls.
   The device if located on the steering wheel 80 should be positioned in the inside part of
 5 the steering wheel as it is more comfortable and less invasive. The multi-turn control is
   located close to the steering wheel as it is simpler to reach and more stable. There should
   be sufficient clearance around the multi-turn control for the fingers to operate it
   comfortably.
   [0063]       However by having such connection, the driver of the vehicle can readily turn
 0 on the phone, which will already be set-up by Wi-Fi or Bluetooth to the car radio 41 and
   allow ready hands free communication. This is possible with the use of the driver's phone
   and not requiring the need for the vehicle to be purchased and set up with inbuilt
   [0064]      Also the system is able to follow the radio and use the normal amplifier while
   processing the signals to control the subwoofer in harmony and provide an improved
25 audio sound. An improvement of the audio system can be readily achieved by the wireless
   interaction of the radio with the control system and the driving of the subwoofer.
   [0065]       Referring to Figure 12 there is shown a Drive Buddy control unit 31 in which at
   the heart of the control is a Bluetooth SOC microcontroller. This can be powered by DC
   power source 72 through connecting plug 73 which is also fed to a 5V regulator 74. The
30 controller 71 has temperature control by the temperature monitor 76. The controller
   undertakes its operations by activation of the push button on/off and pairing 75 and output
   and by two communication with the FM transmitter receiver 33 to the car radio and/ or
   digital communication means 21. The result is to instruct and control the audio amplifier

                                                15
   [0066]      This Bluetooth system on chip is the master device and will provide the
   following elements:
        * Bluetooth pairing with audio source
        * Bluetooth pairing of multiple Drive Buddy units with remote control
 5      0  Bluetooth pairing of multiple Drive Buddy units to a single audio source
        * Bluetooth streaming from audio source
        * Bluetooth audio commands (Play, Pause, Prev, Next, etc) pass through from
           Bluetooth Remote to audio source
        * Remote control commands via FM transceiver
 0      0 System status via LED indicators
        * Audio output volume control
        * Amplifier shutdown power control
        * System power monitoring to prevent over-discharge of car battery
        0 Over the air firmware upgrades
 5      0  LED status indication:
              - System operating
              - Bluetooth Connection
              * Car Battery low
              - Weak signal indication (Bluetooth out of range)
 0 [0067]      Referring to Fig. 13 there can be a separate or integral Bluetooth remote
   control and subwoofer display in which the Bluetooth SOC microcontroller receives power
   from a battery charger 79 powered by USB connection 22 and which can feed to storage
   lithium battery 86. The input through the audio and phone control buttons 63, 64 and
   microphone 24 into the controller can have output to display 77 which is locally
25 complemented to ambient light in response to the input of the ambient light sensor 78.
   [0068]      Bluetooth remote control can be rechargeable via the USB port and can
   provide the following features:
            *   Microphone audio stream to multiple paired main units
            *   Bluetooth Call answer
30          *   Bluetooth Call end
            *   Bluetooth audio commands (Play, Pause, Prev, Next, etc)
            *   FM frequency select
            * Over the air firmware upgrades
            *   LED status indication:

                                                  16
               -   FM frequency
               -   Call in progress
               -   Bluetooth Connection
               -   Battery level
 5             -   Weak signal indication (Bluetooth out of range)
   [0069]       Referring to Fig. 14 there is shown the amplifier 32 having amplifier control 92
   feeding to the speaker via LC filtering 97 and speaker connector 98. The amplifier control
   92 is powered by 12V to 36V DC converter 91 and receives dual channel differential audio
   input 95 but can be overridden by mute signal 93 if required.
 0 [0070]       The amplifier is configured by the micro-controller firmware however,
   switches will be used to select:
             *    Output Impedance
             *    Frequency Filtering cross-over
 5 A mute signal will ensure the amplifier is silent during power up, connection and
   configuration to eliminate spurious pops and clicks.
   [0071]       Referring to Fig. 15 there is a version without amplifier but with Display. The
   systems configuration and display is designed to include:
        +       logo splash screen
 0      +       Drive Buddy branding
        +       Telephone
        +       Audio source selection
   Interpretation
25 Embodiments:
   [0058]       Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment"               or "an
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
   connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
   invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment"
30 in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
   embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics
   may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill
   in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.

                                                   17
   [0059]       Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example
   embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped
   together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of
   streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various
 5 inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as
   reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are
   expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive aspects
   lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims
   following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby expressly
 0 incorporated into this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with each claim
   standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.
   [0060]       Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not
   other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
   embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
 5 embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art. For example, in the following
   claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
   Different Instances of Objects
   [0061]       As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
 0 "first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
   instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
   objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking,
   or in any other manner.
25 Specific Details
   [0062]       In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
   However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
   these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques
   have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
30
   Terminology
   [0063]       In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the
   drawings, specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the
   invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be

                                                 18
   understood that each specific term includes all technical equivalents which operate in a
   similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose. Terms such as "forward",
   "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the like are used as
   words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as limiting
 5 terms.
   Comprising and Including
   [0064]       In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
 0 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
   preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
 5 [0065]      Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used
   herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that
   follow the term, but not excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means
   comprising.
 0 Scope of Invention
   [0066]      Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
   embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further
   modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and
   it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the
25 invention.      For example, any formulas given above are merely representative of
   procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted from the block
   diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
   added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.
   [0067]      Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
30 examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be
   embodied in many other forms.
   Industrial Applicability
   [0068]       It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable
35 to the audio and vehicle industries.

                                              19
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.     A wireless enhanced sound system which is adapted for use with an audio
          transmitter, the wireless enhanced sound system including:
              a retrofit control module;
              an amplifier system having a first speaker system being a vehicle audio
              system; and
              an enhancing amplifier speaker system separate from the vehicle audio
              system;
              wherein the retrofit control module includes:
                  an input means for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an
              audio source; and
                  an output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting
              to the amplifier of the first speaker system, and a second transmitter
              able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing amplifier speaker
              system;
              wherein the wireless enhanced system coherently delivers audio from
              the audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for
              providing enhanced amplification of the audio source; and
              wherein the retrofit control module is mountable to a steering wheel of
              the vehicle.
       2.     A wireless enhanced sound system according to claim 1, wherein the
              retrofit control module is mountable to the steering wheel of a vehicle to
              be positioned adjacent an inside curved surface of the steering wheel.
       3.     A wireless enhanced sound system according to claim 1 or claim 2,
              wherein the retrofit control module includes a domed top, such that a
              curved surface of the domed top is shaped to fit adjacent the inside
              curved surface of the steering wheel.
       4.     A wireless enhanced sound system according to any one of claims 1 to
              3, wherein the retrofit control module includes a multi-turn control which
              is centrally located on the retrofit control module.
       5.     A wireless enhanced sound system according to claim 4, wherein the
              multi-turn control is located on the retrofit control module such that the
              multi-turn control is positioned close to the steering wheel when the
              retrofit control module is mounted to the steering wheel.

                                     20
6.  A wireless enhanced sound system according to any one of claims 1 to
    5, wherein the audio source is a portable audio input that wirelessly
    transmits via FM radio transmission to the control module.
7.  A wireless enhanced sound system according to any one of claims 1 to
    6, wherein the amplifier system having a first speaker system
    wirelessly receives audio signal from the first transmitter by FM radio
    transmission.
8.  A wireless enhanced sound system according to any one of claims 1 to
    7, wherein the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a
    portable subwoofer speaker system.
9.  A wireless enhanced sound system according to any one of claims 1 to
    8, wherein the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a
    subwoofer speaker system which includes:
            i) a subwoofer speaker;
            ii) an amplifier for the subwoofer; and
            iii) an air-port for cooling the subwoofer amplifier, and wherein
    the air-port is adapted with the subwoofer speaker to enhance the
    audio of the subwoofer speaker.
10. A wireless enhanced sound system according to claim 8 or claim 9,
    wherein the retrofit control module is adapted to control the
    temperature of the subwoofer speaker system via a temperature
    monitor which monitors the temperature of the subwoofer.
11. A method of enhancing a vehicle sound system including the steps of:
            a. providing an enhancing amplifier speaker system separate
    from the vehicle sound system and having a receiver for receiving
    audio signal wirelessly;
            b. providing a control module mountable to a steering wheel of
    the vehicle, the control module including: an input means for receiving
    an audio input wirelessly from an audio source; and an output means
    having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to an amplifier of a
    first speaker system being the vehicle audio system, and a second

                                    21
    transmitter able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing
    amplifier speaker system;
             and
             c. coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first
    transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced
    amplification of the audio source by transmitting the audio source to the
    first transmitter and the second transmitter in a respective delayed
    manner depending on the difference in processing of the signal in the
    first speaker system and the separate enhancing amplifier speaker
    system.
12. A retrofit control module for controlling a wireless enhanced sound
    system, the wireless enhanced sound system being adapted for use
    with an audio transmitter and including: an amplifier system having a
    first speaker system being an original or pre-existing vehicle sound
    system, and a separate enhancing amplifier speaker system;
         wherein the retrofit control module includes:
         an input means for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an
    audio source; and
         an output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting
    to the amplifier of the first speaker system, and a second transmitter
    able to wirelessly connect to the separate enhancing amplifier speaker
    system;
    wherein the retrofit control module coherently supplies audio from the
    audio source to the first transmitter and the second transmitter for
    providing enhanced amplification of the audio source; and
    wherein the retrofit control module is mountable to a steering wheel of
    a vehicle.
13. A retrofit control module according to claim 12, wherein the retrofit
    control module is mountable to the steering wheel of a vehicle to be
    positioned adjacent an inside curved surface of the steering wheel
14. A retrofit control module according to claim 13, wherein the retrofit
    control module includes a domed top, such a curved surface of the
    domed top is shaped to fit adjacent an inside curved surface of the
    steering wheel.

                                      22
15. A retrofit control module according to any one of claims 12 to 14,
    wherein the retrofit control module includes a multi-turn control which is
    centrally located on the retrofit control module.
16. A retrofit control module according to claim 15, wherein the multi-turn
    control is located on the retrofit control module such that the multi-turn
    control is positioned close to the steering wheel when the retrofit
    control module is mounted to the steering wheel.
17. A retrofit control module according to any one of claims 12 to 16,
    wherein the audio source is a portable audio input that wirelessly
    transmits via FM radio transmission to the retrofit control module.
18. A retrofit control module according to any one of claims 12 to 17,
    wherein the amplifier system having a first speaker system wirelessly
    receives audio signal from the first transmitter by FM radio
    transmission.
19. A retrofit control module according to any one of claims 12 to 18,
    wherein the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a portable
    subwoofer speaker system.
20. A retrofit control module according to any one of claims 12 to 19,
    wherein the separate enhancing amplifier speaker system is a
    subwoofer speaker system which includes:
             i) a subwoofer speaker;
             ii) an amplifier for the subwoofer; and
             iii) an air-port for cooling the subwoofer amplifier, and wherein
    the air-port is adapted with the subwoofer speaker to enhance the
    audio of the subwoofer speaker.
21. A retrofit control module according to claim 19 or claim 20, wherein the
    retrofit control module is adapted to control the temperature of the
    subwoofer speaker system via a temperature monitor which monitors
    the temperature of the subwoofer.

                                     23
22. A method of controlling an enhanced vehicle sound system including
    the steps of:
             a. providing a retrofit control module including an input means
    for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an audio source; and an
    output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to an
    amplifier of a first speaker system being a vehicle audio system; and a
    second transmitter able to wirelessly connect to a separate enhancing
    amplifier speaker system having a receiver for receiving audio signals
    wirelessly,
             b. mounting the retrofit control module to a steering wheel of the
    vehicle;
             c. coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first
    transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced
    amplification of the audio source by transmitting the audio source to the
    first transmitter and the second transmitter in a respective delayed
    manner depending on the difference in processing of the signal in the
    first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker
    system;
             and
             d. controlling the enhanced vehicle sound system using the
    retrofit control module.
22. A method of controlling an enhanced vehicle sound system including
    the steps of:
             a. providing an enhancing amplifier speaker system having a
    receiver for receiving audio signal wirelessly;
             b. providing a retrofit control module including an input means
    for receiving an audio input wirelessly from an audio source; and an
    output means having a first transmitter for wirelessly connecting to an
    amplifier of a first speaker system being an original or pre-existing
    vehicle audio system; and a second transmitter able to wirelessly
    connect to a separate enhancing amplifier speaker system;
             c. mounting the retrofit control module to a steering wheel of a
    vehicle;
             d. coherently delivering audio from the audio source to the first
    transmitter and the second transmitter for providing enhanced
    amplification of the audio source by transmitting the audio source to the
    first transmitter and the second transmitter in a respective delayed
    manner depending on the difference in processing of the signal in the
    first speaker system and the second enhancing amplifier speaker
    system; and

                               24
         e. controlling the enhanced vehicle sound system using the
retrofit control module.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
