                                         ABSTRACT
       A gaming machine has a display and a game controller arranged to control
   images of symbols displayed on the display. The game controller is arranged to play
 5 a game wherein at least one random event is caused to be displayed on the display
   means and, if a predefined winning event occurs, the machine awards a prize. The
   gaming machine further comprises a game feature where, upon being awarded at
   least one prize in the feature, a player is offered a choice and, if the choice results in
   a successful outcome, the player has the option of continuing with the feature but, if
10 the choice results in an unsuccessful outcome, the feature ends and a portion, but
   not all, of a total prize accumulated up to termination of the feature is forfeited.

                                                  1
                               Gaming Machine with Mine Feature
   Field of the Invention
 5          This invention relates to a gaming machine. More particularly, the invention
   relates to a gaming machine and to an improvement to a game played on such a gaming
   machine.
   Background to the Invention
10
            Players who regularly play gaming machines quickly tire of particular games
   and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to develop innovative
   game features which add interest to the games. In so doing, it is hoped to keep players
   amused and therefore willing to continue playing the game as well as to attract new
15 players.
            Also, with the growth that has occurred in the gaming machine market, there is
   intense competition between manufacturers to supply various existing and new venues.
   When selecting a supplier of gaming machines, the operator of a venue will often pay
20 close attention to the popularity of various games with their patrons. Therefore, gaming
   machine manufacturers are keen to devise games and/or game features which are
   popular with the players as a mechanism for improving sales, retaining customers and
   attracting new customers.
25          In addition, players enjoy having greater interaction with a game such that they
   feel that they can have an effect on the outcome of the game. However, due to very
   strict compliance regulations which need to be satisfied in various jurisdictions, it is
   difficult, if not impossible, to include high levels of player skill in game features of
   gaming machines. It is desirable to include features where pseudo-skill is involved in
30 the feature which, the applicant believes, will enhance player enjoyment.

                                                    2
   Summary of the Invention
   According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided gaming machine
   comprising:
 5 a display;
   a credit input mechanism configured to accept a physical item associated with a
   monetary value to establish credit within a credit balance for a player to play a game;
   a payout mechanism configured to provide monetary credits based on successful game
   outcomes; and
10 a game controller configured, and in response to the credit input mechanism having
   accepted the physical item to establish credit within the credit balance, to:
            control images of symbols to be displayed on the display,
            affect on the display a bonus feature wherein at least a first outcome is
   guaranteed to be a successful outcome to result in a first amount of prize credits, said
15 first amount of prize credits being randomly determined,
            accumulate the first amount of prize credits into a total prize;
            offer through the display a choice to select between (a) continuing the bonus
   feature, and (b) ending the bonus feature, and,
            in response to a choice selection of (a) continuing the bonus feature, said game
20 controller configured to:
                     (1) determine a subsequent prize of the bonus feature from a plurality of
            prizes for a successful subsequent outcome,
                     (2) determine a second amount of said prize credits to be risked in
            selecting to continue the bonus feature, said second amount being a portion of
25          said first amount,
                     (3) accumulate the subsequent prize credits into the total prize, and
            determine the size of the accumulated total prize for a successful subsequent
            outcome of the bonus feature,
                     (4) calculate a ratio of the successful subsequent outcome based on (i)
30          said subsequent prize for a successful subsequent outcome, (ii) said second
            amount of said prize credits to be risked in selecting to continue the bonus
            feature, and (iii) the size of the accumulated total prize for a successful

                                                  3
           subsequent outcome of the bonus feature, so that the average win of the feature
           is said first amount;
                    (5) display an occurrence of said subsequent outcome indicative of the
           calculated ratio,
 5                  (6) in response to said subsequent outcome being a successful outcome,
           offer through the display the choice of continuing the bonus feature; and
                    (7) in response to said subsequent outcome being an unsuccessful
           outcome, i) end the bonus feature, and ii) forfeit said second amount of said
10         prize credits; and
           the payout mechanism providing any monetary prize credits to the player.
           The game controller my effect the bonus feature when a predetermined trigger
   condition occurs in a base game. The particular feature to which the invention is
15 applicable may be a second screen feature following the Applicant's "Outback JackTM"
   game.
           The display may display a paytable that indicates the number of credits that will
   be paid for various successful outcomes which occur during the playing of the feature.
   Further, the display may include a prize meter which provides a cumulative total of the
20 number of credits won due to successful outcomes which have occurred during the
   playing of the feature.
           When the initial screen display is displayed on the display means, the player
   may be alerted to commence the feature by pressing a "Start Feature" button on a
25 midtrim of the gaming machine.
           It will be appreciated that, because the player has the option of attempting to
   achieve further successful outcomes, an apparent level of skill is imparted to the game.
   In other words, the player has a choice of continuing with the feature at the risk of
30 losing a portion of the total prize won to date or ending the feature and taking the total
   prize won to date.

                                                  4
            Should the player desire to continue with the feature, the controller may
   determine a subsequent prize for a subsequent outcome using a weighted random
   selection.
 5          The probability of the successful subsequent outcome may be calculated by the
   following equation:
   Ps = (said at least a portion of said total amount of prize credits)/(said at least a portion
   of said amount of prize credits + the determined said subsequent prize).
10
   In accordance with a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
   playing a game on a game playing apparatus having a credit input mechanism
   configured to accept a physical item associated with a monetary value to establish credit
   within a credit balance for a player to play the game, a display, a payout mechanism
15 configured to provide monetary credits based on successful game outcomes, and a game
   controller, the method comprising:
            in response to the credit input mechanism having accepted the physical item to
   establish credit within the credit balance, displaying on the display a bonus feature
   guaranteeing a successful first outcome to result in a first amount of prize credits;
20          accumulating via the controller the first amount of prize credits into a total
   prize;
            offering on the display a choice to select between (a) continuing the bonus
   feature and (b) ending the bonus feature;
            in response to a choice selection of (a) continuing the bonus feature on the
25 display,
            (1) determining via the controller a subsequent prize from a plurality of prizes
   for a successful subsequent outcome;
            (2) determining via the controller a second amount of said prize credits to be
   risked in selecting to continue the bonus feature, said second amount being a portion of
30 said first amount;

                                                   5
            (3) accumulating via the controller the subsequent prize credits into the total
   prize, and determining via the controller the size of the accumulated total prize for a
   successful subsequent outcome of the bonus feature;
            (4) calculating via the controller a ratio of the successful subsequent outcome
 5 based on (i) said subsequent prize for a successful subsequent outcome, (ii) said second
   amount of said prize credits to be risked in selecting to continue the bonus feature, and
   (iii) the size of the accumulated total prize for a successful subsequent outcome of the
   bonus feature, so that the average win of the feature is said first amount;
            (5) displaying on the display an occurrence of said subsequent outcome
10 indicative of the calculated ratio;
            (6) in response to said subsequent outcome being a successful outcome, offering
   through the display the choice of continuing the bonus feature; and
            (7) in response to said subsequent outcome being an unsuccessful outcome, i)
   ending the bonus feature, and ii) forfeiting said second amount of said prize credits; and
15          the payout mechanism providing any monetary prize credits to the player
   credits.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
20          The invention is now described by way of example with reference to the
   accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
            Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a gaming machine, in accordance with the
   invention;
            Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machine;
25          Figure 3 shows an initial screen display of a game feature of a game played on
   the gaming machine of Figure 1;
            Figures 4 to 6 show subsequent screen displays of the game feature; and
            Figure 7 shows a flow chart of a game played on the gaming machine of Figure
   1 including the game feature of Figures 3 to 6.
30

                                                   6
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
            In Figure 1, reference numeral 10 generally designates a gaming machine,
   including a game, in accordance with the invention. The machine 10 includes a console
 5 12 having a display in the form of a video display unit 14 on which a game 16 is played,
   in use. The video display unit may be implemented as a cathode ray tube device, a
   liquid crystal display, a plasma screen, or the like. The game 16 is a spinning reel game
   which simulates the rotation of a number of spinning reels 18. A midtrim 20 of the
   machine 10 houses a bank 22 of buttons for enabling a player to play the game 16. The
10 midtrim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 including a coin input chute 24.1
   and a bill collector 24.2.
            The machine 10 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is carried. The
   artwork 28 includes paytables, details of bonus awards, etc.
15
            A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
   machine 10.
            Referring now to Figure 2 of the drawings, a control circuit 32 is illustrated. A
20 program which implements the game and user interface is run on a processor 34 of the
   control circuit 32. The processor 34 forms part of a controller 36 that drives the screen
   of the video display unit 14 and that receives input signals from sensors 38. The sensors
   38 include sensors associated with the bank 22 of buttons and touch sensors mounted in
   the screen of the video display unit 14. The controller 36 also receives input pulses from
25 the mechanism 24 to determine whether or not a player has provided sufficient credit to
   commence playing. The mechanism 24 may, instead of the coin input chute 24.1 or the
   bill collector 24.2, or in addition thereto, be a credit card reader (not shown) or any
   other type of validation device.
            Finally, the controller 36 drives a payout mechanism 40 which, for example,
30 may be a coin hopper for feeding coins to the coin tray 30 to make a pay out to a player
   when the player wishes to redeem his or her credit.

                                                    7
            Referring to Figure 3 of the drawings, an initial screen display of a game
   feature, in accordance with the invention, is illustrated and is designated generally by
   the reference numeral 50. The screen display 50 follows the triggering of a feature in an
   underlying base game of the game 16. As indicated above, the base game is the
 5 Applicant's "Outback JackTM" game. In that base game, when a trigger condition occurs
   a second screen display is shown being a map of Australia. A number of icons are
   displayed on the map. Each icon represents a feature. One of the features is the game
   feature of the present invention and is indicated as a "Gold Mine" feature.
            Should the player select the Gold Mine feature, the screen display 50 as shown
10 in Figure 3 of the drawings appears on the video display unit 14 of the gaming machine
   10. It is to be noted that the screen display represents a graphical representation of a
   mine tunnel 52 with an animated character, "Outback Jack", 54 in the tunnel 52.
            In addition to a credit meter 56, a bet meter 58 and a win meter 60, a prize meter
   62 is also displayed in the screen display. A paytable 64 is also displayed in the screen
15 display 50. The paytable 64 shows the number of credits to be awarded if one of the
   minerals or precious stones in the paytable are "dug up" by the character 54.
            To start the feature, a "Start Feature" button from the bank 22 of buttons is
   pressed. The character 54 digs up a randomly selected item (a mineral or gem stone)
   and the appropriate prize is paid depending on the item dug up.
20          For example, as shown in Figure 4 of the drawings, the character 54 has dug up
   a ruby 66. From the paytable 64, it is to be noted that a ruby 66 is worth 25 credits.
   The prize awarded is the number of credits associated with the item "dug up" multiplied
   by the bet. Therefore, in this case, the prize awarded is 25 x 20   = 500 and 500 credits is
   credited to the prize meter 62.
25          The character 54 then digs up a second item 68 which is worth 2 credits as
   shown on the paytable 64. Once again, the value of the item is multiplied by the bet to
   provide the total prize awarded so that a prize of 40 credits is credited to the prize meter
   62 as shown in Figure 5 of the drawings.
            It will therefore be seen that the first two outcomes are guaranteed to be
30 successful and no player choice is involved.
            After the second prize has been paid, two icons 70, 72 are displayed on the

                                                   8
   screen display 50. The icon 70 is a "Leave" icon and the icon 72 is a "Dig" icon. The
   Dig icon 72 is selected by the player should the player wish to continue playing the
   game feature. Thus, a choice is offered to the player. The player can either terminate the
   game feature by touching the Leave icon 70 or can continue playing the game feature
 5 by touching the Dig icon 72.
            Should the player touch the Leave icon 70, the total prize credited to the prize
   meter (in this case a credit of 540 credits) is applied to the win meter 60 of the gaming
   machine 10 and the feature is at an end. Should the player wish to continue playing the
   game feature, the player touches the Dig icon 72 and is afforded the opportunity of
10 digging up further items potentially to increase the size of the total prize awarded in the
   feature but at the risk of forfeiting a portion, but not all, of the total prize standing to the
   credit of the player on the prize meter 62.
            In the illustrated example, it is assumed that the player touches the Dig icon 72
   in an attempt to increase the total prize awarded in the game feature. As illustrated in
15 Figure 6 of the drawings, the player achieves an unsuccessful outcome and the tunnel
   52 collapses as illustrated by the rocks 70 in Figure 6 of the drawings. More
   importantly, the prize standing to the credit of the player on the prize meter 62 is halved
   so that the previous prize of 540 is now 270 credits. The prize of 270 credits remaining
   on the prize meter 62 is credited to the win meter 60 and the game feature is at an end.
20          Had the player been successful in "digging" up a further item, the player would
   again then have been offered the opportunity of continuing with the feature or
   terminating the feature. Theoretically, the feature can continue indefinitely so long as
   the player is successful with their "dig" attempts but in practice a limit of eight "digs" is
   imposed including the first two digs.
25          The controller 36 determines whether or not, at each stage of the feature where
   the player is offered a "Leave" or "Dig" choice, the outcome will be successful.
   Although, by offering the player a choice, it appears that player skill is involved, it is,
   more correctly, pseudo-skill. Pseudo-skill is used because it allows for the expected
   return to player percentage of the gaming machine 10 to be accurately calculated
30 without the level of uncertainty that results when true skill has an effect on the outcome
   of the game.

                                                   9
           Should the player decide to continue with the feature by touching the Dig icon
   72, one of two things will happen. Either the character 54 will dig up another item to
   increase the prize on the prize meter 62 or the tunnel 52 will collapse.
           To eliminate skill from the game 16, the average win for the feature needs to
 5 remain the same as the total accumulated win that is currently displayed on the prize
   meter 62. Hence, when the player chooses to continue with the game feature by
   touching the Dig icon 72, a prize is determined in the same way as for previous prizes
   awarded. That is, a weighted random selection is made by the controller 36 to determine
   which item from the paytable 64 will be revealed and, hence, the size of the next prize.
10 After the item has been determined, the probability of success, i.e. whether the outcome
   will be successful or not, is determined by the following equation:
   Ps  = (Number of credits that may be lost)/(Number of credits that may be lost + New
   prize).
15
           The probability of the outcome being unsuccessful in that the tunnel 52
   collapses is therefore dependent upon both the next item selected from the paytable and
   the size of the total prize that has so far been accumulated on the prize meter 62.
           Once the probability of success has been determined in this way, a selection is
20 made according to that probability to decide whether the player has a successful or
   unsuccessful outcome, the latter ending the feature.
           For example, if the player is lucky enough to get the maximum prize of 100 as
   shown on the paytable 64 twice in a row before deciding to continue with the feature by
   touching the Dig icon 72, then, if the 25 credit item is selected as the third prize, the
25 player would have a 20 percent chance of winning half the current prize on the prize
   meter 62, ie. a prize of 100 credits, in that the outcome is regarded as unsuccessful and
   is designated as such by the tunnel 52 collapsing. Conversely, the player has an 80
   percent chance of having a successful outcome in which case the total prize would be
   225 credits.
30         On average, this works out to be exactly the same as if the player had selected to
   end the feature by touching the Leave icon 70 after twice winning the 100 credit prize.

                                                  10
            Accordingly, it is an advantage of the invention that a game feature is provided
   which includes apparent player skill thereby resulting in greater interaction by a player
   with the game such that the player feels that he or she has an effect on the outcome of
   the game.
 5          It is a further advantage of the invention that the mathematics is selected so that
   the expected return to player percentage of the gaming machine 10 can be accurately
   calculated without the level of uncertainty that results when real skill has an effect on
   the outcome of the game.
            It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
10 and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
   embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
   described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
            In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
15 except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
   preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.

                                                       11
      THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. A gaming machine comprising:
      a display;
 5    a credit input mechanism configured to accept a physical item associated with a
      monetary value to establish credit within a credit balance for a player to play a game;
      a payout mechanism configured to provide monetary credits based on successful game
      outcomes; and
      a game controller configured, and in response to the credit input mechanism having
10    accepted the physical item to establish credit within the credit balance, to:
               control images of symbols to be displayed on the display,
               affect on the display a bonus feature wherein at least a first outcome is
      guaranteed to be a successful outcome to result in a first amount of prize credits, said
      first amount of prize credits being randomly determined,
15             accumulate the first amount of prize credits into a total prize;
               offer through the display a choice to select between (a) continuing the bonus
      feature, and (b) ending the bonus feature, and,
               in response to a choice selection of (a) continuing the bonus feature, said game
      controller configured to:
20                      (1) determine a subsequent prize of the bonus feature from a plurality of
               prizes for a successful subsequent outcome,
                        (2) determine a second amount of said prize credits to be risked in
               selecting to continue the bonus feature, said second amount being a portion of
               said first amount,
25                      (3) accumulate the subsequent prize credits into the total prize, and
               determine the size of the accumulated total prize for a successful subsequent
               outcome of the bonus feature,
                        (4) calculate a ratio of the successful subsequent outcome based on (i)
               said subsequent prize for a successful subsequent outcome, (ii) said second
30             amount of said prize credits to be risked in selecting to continue the bonus
               feature, and (iii) the size of the accumulated total prize for a successful

                                                  12
            subsequent outcome of the bonus feature, so that the average win of the feature
            is said first amount;
                     (5) display an occurrence of said subsequent outcome indicative of the
            calculated ratio,
 5                   (6) in response to said subsequent outcome being a successful outcome,
            offer through the display the choice of continuing the bonus feature; and
                     (7) in response to said subsequent outcome being an unsuccessful
            outcome, i) end the bonus feature, and ii) forfeit said second amount of said
10          prize credits; and
   the payout mechanism providing any monetary prize credits to the player.
   2.       The gaming machine of claim 1, wherein the game controller is configured to
   affect the bonus feature when a predetermined trigger condition occurs in a base game.
15
   3.       The gaming machine of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the game controller is
   configured to display on the display a paytable that indicates a number of credits that
   will be paid for various successful outcomes which occur during the playing of the
   bonus feature.
20
   4.       The gaming machine of claim 3, wherein the game controller is configured to
   display on the display a prize meter which provides a cumulative total of credits won
   due to successful outcomes which have occurred during the playing of the bonus
   feature.
25
   5.       The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said game
   controller is configured to determine said subsequent prize for a successful subsequent
   outcome using a weighted random selection.
30 6.       The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
   calculated ratio of the successful subsequent outcome is calculated by the following
   equation:

                                                  13
            Ps = (said second amount of prize credits)/(said second amount of prize credits
            + said subsequent prize).
 5 7.       A method of playing a game on a game playing apparatus having a credit input
   mechanism configured to accept a physical item associated with a monetary value to
   establish credit within a credit balance for a player to play the game, a display, a payout
   mechanism configured to provide monetary credits based on successful game outcomes,
   and a game controller, the method comprising:
10          in response to the credit input mechanism having accepted the physical item to
   establish credit within the credit balance, displaying on the display a bonus feature
   guaranteeing a successful first outcome to result in a first amount of prize credits;
            accumulating via the controller the first amount of prize credits into a total
   prize;
15          offering on the display a choice to select between (a) continuing the bonus
   feature and (b) ending the bonus feature;
            in response to a choice selection of (a) continuing the bonus feature on the
   display,
            (1) determining via the controller a subsequent prize from a plurality of prizes
20 for a successful subsequent outcome;
            (2) determining via the controller a second amount of said prize credits to be
   risked in selecting to continue the bonus feature, said second amount being a portion of
   said first amount;
            (3) accumulating via the controller the subsequent prize credits into the total
25 prize, and determining via the controller the size of the accumulated total prize for a
   successful subsequent outcome of the bonus feature;
            (4) calculating via the controller a ratio of the successful subsequent outcome
   based on (i) said subsequent prize for a successful subsequent outcome, (ii) said second
   amount of said prize credits to be risked in selecting to continue the bonus feature, and
30 (iii) the size of the accumulated total prize for a successful subsequent outcome of the
   bonus feature, so that the average win of the feature is said first amount;

                                                14
           (5) displaying on the display an occurrence of said subsequent outcome
   indicative of the calculated ratio;
           (6) in response to said subsequent outcome being a successful outcome, offering
   through the display the choice of continuing the bonus feature; and
 5         (7) in response to said subsequent outcome being an unsuccessful outcome, i)
   ending the bonus feature, and ii) forfeiting said second amount of said prize credits; and
   the payout mechanism providing any monetary prize credits to the player.
   8.      The method of claim 7, and further comprising triggering the bonus feature
10 when a predetermined trigger condition occurs in a base game.
   9.      The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the game playing apparatus includes a
   screen display, and further comprising displaying a paytable on the screen display
   during the bonus feature; and indicating in the paytable a number of credits that will be
15 paid for various successful outcomes of the bonus feature.
   10.     The method of claim 9, and further comprising displaying a prize meter; and
   providing a cumulative total of the number of credits won due to successful outcomes.
20 11.     The method of any one of claims 7 to 10, and further comprising determining
   said subsequent prize for a successful subsequent outcome with a weighted random
   selection.
   12.     The method of any one of claims7 to 11, wherein said calculating said ratio of
25 the successful subsequent outcome comprises using the following
   equation:
           Ps =  (said second amount of prize credits)/(said second amount of prize credits
           + said subsequent prize).

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
