                                    Abstract
Provided herein are compositions and methods of treatment of individuals
having a disease, disorder or condition of the lung, comprising a
therapeutically- effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells.

      TREATMENT OF DISEASES, DISORDERS OR CONDITIONS OF THE LUNG USING
                                         PLACENTAL CELLS
         This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
2015258213, which itself is a divisional application of Australian patent application
2009316376, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by this cross-reference. The
present application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/117,004, filed
November 21, 2008, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
1.       FIELD
[0001] Provided herein are methods and compositions for using placental cells to treat individuals
having a disease, disorder or condition of the lungs. In certain embodiments, the disease, disorder
or condition is caused by, or relates to, an unwanted or harmful immune response.
2.       BACKGROUND
[0002] Lung disease is the number three killer in America, responsible for one in six deaths. Lung
disease and other breathing problems constitute one of the leading causes of death in babies
younger than one year old. Today, more than 35 million Americans are living with chronic lung
disease such as asthma, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) otherwise known as
emphysema and chronic bronchitis. (American Lung Association website,
www.lungusa.org/site/c.dvLUK900E/b.33316/, downloaded November 21, 2008). There are not
enough adequate treatments for lung diseases, and new therapies are urgently needed.
3.       SUMMARY
[0003] Provided herein are methods and compositions for treating, managing, ameliorating or
preventing diseases, disorders and/or conditions of the lung comprising administering placental
cells or umbilical cord cells to an individual in need thereof. In certain embodiments, the disease,
disorder of condition is associated with or caused by an immune response, e.g., associated with,
resulting in or caused by inflammation. In certain embodiments, the placental cells or umbilical
cord cells are tissue culture plastic adherent, non-trophoblast multipotent cells referred to herein
as placental stem cells, which are described in detail in Section 4.2, below.
[004] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating an individual having, suspected
of having, or at risk of developing a disease, disorder or condition of the lung comprising
administering to the individual placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, or
                                                    1

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
medium conditioned by placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, so that detectable
improvement in one or more symptoms of, or a reduction in the progression of one or more
symptoms of, said disease, disorder or condition occurs. In a specific embodiment, said
disease, disorder or condition is caused by an immune response, e.g., inflammation. In
another specific embodiment, said disease, disorder or condition results from a cause in
addition to an immune response, e.g., inflammation. In a specific embodiment, said disease,
disorder or condition results from a cause other than an immune response, e.g., inflammation.
 [00051 In a specific embodiment, said lung disease, disorder, or condition is an acute lung
injury. In more specific embodiments, said acute lung injury is one or more of physical
trauma, a chemical injury, e.g., a chemical burn, smoke inhalation, or exposure to a toxic
substance. In another specific embodiment, said lung disease, disorder, or condition is an
injury caused by a neoplastic or paraneoplastic disease.
 [00061 In certain embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition is one or more of a fibrotic
disease of the lung, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), emphysema, asthma, a viral or bacterial infection of the lung,
pneumonia (including chemically-induced pneumonia), or cystic fibrosis. In a specific
embodiment, the fibrotic disease of the lung is interstitial lung disease (diffuse parenchymal
lung disease). In more specific embodiments, the interstitial lung disease is silicosis,
asbestosis, berylliosis, systemic sclerosis, polymyositis, or dermatomyositis. In other more
specific embodiments, the interstitial lung disease is caused by an antibiotic, a
chemotherapeutic drug, an antiarrhythmic drug, or an infection.
[00071 In certain embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition of the lung is associated
with or caused by a harmful, deleterious, inappropriate or unwanted immune response, e.g.,
inflammation, wherein said disease, disorder or condition affects, or manifests symptoms in,
the lungs. In specific embodiments, said disease, disorder or condition is one or more of
lupus, e.g., lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, or a rheumatological disease (e.g., rheumatoid
arthritis).
[00081     In another specific embodiment, said disease, disorder or condition is rheumatoid
lung disease (RLD), e.g., rheumatoid lung disease associated with rheumatoid arthritis. In
another specific embodiment, the administration is sufficient to cause a detectable
improvement in one or more symptoms of RLD, or sufficient to detectably reduce or slow the
progression of one or more symptoms of RLD, e.g., in a lung of the individual. In a more
specific embodiment, said symptom of RLD is a condition adjunct to RLD. In a more
                                                -2-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
specific embodiment, said condition adjunct to RLD is an infection, e.g., a viral infection of
the lungs, or fibrosis of the lungs (e.g., as a consequence of methotrexate therapy).
[00091 In another specific embodiment of the method of treatment, the placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, have been genetically engineered to express a fusion protein comprising
IL-IRa and DHFR.
[00101 In another specific embodiment, the disease, disorder or condition is lupus
erythematosus, e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In a more specific embodiment,
said symptom of lupus erythematosus is one or more of lung and/or pleural inflammation,
pleurisy, pleuritis, pleural effusion, lupus pneumonitis, or chronic diffuse interstitial lung
disease.
 [00111 In another specific embodiment of any of the above methods, the method comprises
 administration of a second therapeutic agent to the individual having the disease, disorder or
 condition. In a more specific embodiment, said second therapeutic agent is an anti
 inflammatory agent, an immunomodulatory agent, and immunosuppressive agent, a pain
 medication, or an antibiotic. In a more specific embodiment, the second therapeutic agent is
 an immunomodulatory agent. In another more specific embodiment, the second agent is an
 anti-CD3 antibody (e.g., OKT3, muronomab), an anti-IL-2 receptor antibody (e.g.,
 basiliximab (SIMULECT*) and daclizumab (ZENAPAX*)), an anti T cell receptor antibody
 (e.g., Muromonab-CD3), azathioprine, a calcineurin inhibitor, a corticosteroid, cyclosporine,
 methotrexate, mercaptopurine, mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus, or sirolimus. In another
 more specific embodiment, the second therapeutic agent comprises a stem cell of another
 type, e.g., a bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell, bone marrow, or a hematopoietic
 stem cell.
  [00121 In certain embodiments, the placental cells are fibroblastoid, adherent to tissue culture
 plastic, have the capacity to differentiate into cells displaying one or more characteristics of
  an osteogenic cell, chondrogenic cell or neurogenic cell, can replicate between about 10-40
  times in culture, and/or display characteristic cellular markers, as described herein. In a
  specific embodiment, the placental cells are placental stem cells or multipotent placental
  cells.
  [00131 In a specific embodiment, the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, are CD10,
  CD34-, CD105*. In another embodiment, the placental cells are additionally CD200+. In yet
  another embodiment, the placental cells are CD10*, CD34-, CD105*, and at least one of:
  CD200, CD44*, CD45~, CD90*, CD1 IT, CD133-, KDR-, CD80-, CD86-, HLA-ABC*,
  HLA-DR-, or PDL*. In another specific embodiment, said placental cells express CD200 and
                                                  -3-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
HLA-G, or express CD73, CD105, and CD200, or express CD200 and OCT-4 (also known as
Octamer-4; octamer binding protein 4; POU5FI), or express CD73, CD105 and HLA-G, or
express CD73 and CD105 and facilitate the formation of one or more embryoid-like bodies in
a population of placental cells comprising said stem cell when said population is cultured
under conditions that allow for the formation of an embryoid-like body, or express OCT-4
and facilitate the formation of one or more embryoid-like bodies in a population of placental
cells comprising said stem cell when said population is cultured under conditions that allow
for the formation of an embryoid-like body. In a more specific embodiment, the placental
cells suppress the activity of an immune cell, e.g., suppress proliferation of T cells, e.g., CD4*
T cells or CD8 t T cells.
[00141 Placental cells, placental stem cells, or medium conditioned by placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, can be administered in a single dose, or in multiple doses. Where
administered in multiple doses, the doses can be part of a therapeutic regimen designed to
relieve one or more acute symptoms of disease, disorder or condition, wherein the disease,
disorder or condition is caused by, or is associated with, an inappropriate or undesirable
immune response, or can be part of a long-term therapeutic regimen designed to prevent, or
lessen the severity, of a chronic course of such a disease, disorder or condition. When a
second therapeutic agent is administered, administration of the two agents can be concurrent,
or sequential.
         3.1     DEFINITIONS
 [00151 As used herein, the term "SH2" refers to an antibody that binds an epitope on the
marker CD105. Thus, cells that are referred to as SH2* are CD105+.
 [00161 As used herein, the terms "SH3" and SH4" refer to antibodies that bind epitopes
present on the marker CD73. Thus, cells that are referred to as SH3* and/or SH4* are CD73.
 [0017] As used herein, the term "isolated cell," e.g., an isolated stem cell, means a cell that is
substantially separated from other cells of the tissue, e.g., placenta or umbilical cord, from
which the cell, e.g., stem cell, is derived. A cell is "isolated" if at least 50%, 60%, 70%,
80%, 90%, 95%, or at least 99% of the cells with which the cell is naturally associated are
removed from the cell, e.g., during collection and/or culture of the cell.
 [00181 As used herein, the term "isolated population of cells" means a population of cells
that is substantially separated from other cells of the tissue, e.g., placenta, from which the
population of cells is derived. A population of, e.g., stem cells is "isolated" if at least 50%,
60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or at least 99% of the cells with which the population of stem
                                                -4-

    WO 2010/060031                                                                PCT/US2009/065509
cells are naturally associated are removed from the population of stem cells, e.g., during
collection and/or culture of the population of stem cells.
[0019] As used herein, the term "placental stem cell" refers to a stem cell or progenitor cell
that is derived from a mammalian placenta or umbilical cord, regardless of morphology, cell
surface markers, or the number of passages after a primary culture, which adheres to a tissue
culture substrate (e.g., tissue culture plastic or a fibronectin-coated tissue culture plate). The
term "derived," in this context, includes primary isolates of placental stem cells or placental
stem cells that have been expanded in culture. The term "placental stem cell" as used herein
does not, however, refer to a trophoblast, a cytotrophoblast, embryonic germ cell, or
embryonic stem cell, as those cells are understood by persons of skill in the art. In one
embodiment, a placental stem cell is a multipotent cell, derived from a mammalian placenta,
that adheres to a tissue culture substrate, e.g., to tissue culture plastic.
 [0020] As used herein, the term "placental cells" includes cells derived from placenta and
 cells derived from umbilical cord.
 [00211 As used herein, the term "umbilical cord stem cell" refers to a stem cell or progenitor
 cell that is derived from a mammalian umbilical cord, regardless of morphology, cell surface
 markers, or the number of passages after a primary culture, which adheres to a tissue culture
 substrate (e.g., tissue culture plastic or a fibronectin-coated tissue culture plate). In one
 embodiment, an umbilical cord stem cell is a multipotent cell, derived from a mammalian
 umbilical cord, that adheres to a tissue culture substrate, e.g., to tissue culture plastic.
  [00221 A cell is considered a "stem cell" if the cell retains at least one attribute of a stem cell,
 e.g., a marker or gene expression profile associated with one or more types of stem cells; the
 ability to replicate at least 10-40 times in culture; multipotency, e.g., the ability to
  differentiate, either in vitro, in vivo or both, into at least a subset of the cell types in the body,
  for example, of one or more of the three germ layers, endoderm, mesoderm, or ectoderm; the
  lack of adult (i.e., differentiated) cell characteristics, or the like. The terms "placental stem
  cell" and "placenta-derived stem cell" may be used interchangeably. The placental stem cells
  disclosed herein are, in certain embodiments, multipotent in vitro (that is, the cells
  differentiate in vitro under differentiating conditions), multipotent in vivo (that is, the cells
  differentiate in vivo), or both.
  [00231 As used herein, a cell, e.g., stem cell is "positive" for a particular marker when that
  marker is detectable. For example, a placental stem cell is positive for, e.g., CD73 because
  CD73 is detectable on placental stem cells in an amount detectably greater than background
  (in comparison to, e.g., an isotype control). A cell is also positive for a marker when that
                                                     -5-

      WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
  marker can be used to distinguish the cell from at least one other cell type, or can be used to
  select or isolate the cell when present or expressed by the cell. Markers expressed on the cell
  surface can, for example, be detected using cell sorting technology such as flow cytometry.
  Markers can also, for example, be detected using nucleic acid microarray or RT-PCR
  technology.
  [00241 As used herein, "immunomodulation" and "immunomodulatory" mean causing, or
  having the capacity to cause, a detectable change in an immune response.
  [0025] As used herein, "immunosuppression" and "immunosuppressive" mean causing, or
  having the capacity to cause, a detectable reduction in an immune response, and the ability to
  cause a detectable suppression of an immune response.
  4.      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
  [0026] Provided herein are methods for the treatment of an individual having, suspected of
  having, or at risk of developing a disease, disorder or condition of, or affecting, the lungs,
  comprising administering to the individual one or more doses of placental cells, e.g.,
  placental stem cells, medium conditioned by placental cells, umbilical cord cells, e.g.,
  umbilical cord stem cells, and/or medium conditioned by umbilical cord cells. In certain
  embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition is associated with, arises from, or relates to
  an inappropriate, unwanted, harmful or deleterious immune response, e.g., an autoimmune
  disease. Methods for the treatment of such individuals, and for the administration of such
 stem cells, alone or in combination with other therapies, are discussed in detail below.
          4.1     TREATMENT OF LUNG DISEASES, DISORDERS OR CONDITIONS
                  USING PLACENTAL CELLS
 100271 In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating an individual having,
 suspected of having, or at risk of developing a disease, disorder or condition of, or affecting,
 the lung comprising administering to the individual a therapeutically-effective amount of
 umbilical cord cells, e.g., umbilical cord stem cells, or medium conditioned by placental
 cells, e.g., placental stem cells, or medium conditioned by placental cells, e.g., placental stem
 cells, wherein said therapeutically-effective amount causes a detectable improvement in one
or more symptoms of, or a reduction in the progression of one or more symptoms of, said
disease, disorder or condition occurs. Also provided herein is the use of certain placental
cells, e.g., placental stem cells, in the manufacture of a medicament for treating, managing,
ameliorating or preventing diseases, disorders and/or conditions of the lung. Cells useful in
the treatment methods disclosed herein are further described in Section 4.2, below.
                                                 -6-

     WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
[00281 In certain embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition of, or affecting, the lung is
a disease, disorder or condition of, or affecting, the lung not caused by, or related to, an
autoimmune disease. In specific embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition of, or
affecting, the lung is not related to, or caused by, graft-versus-host disease, systemic lupus
erythematosus, inflammatory bowel disease, or rheumatoid arthritis (e.g., is not a rheumatoid
lung disease). In certain other embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition of, or
affecting, the lung is not caused by or related to inflammation (e.g., is not caused by
inflammation of the lung, or is not caused by an inflammatory response in a non-lung tissue,
etc.).
 [00291 In a specific embodiment of any of the embodiments herein, the placental cells are
 multipotent placental cells. In another specific embodiment, the placental cells are placental
 stem cells. In another specific embodiment, the placental cells are multipotent placental stem
 cells. Placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, used in the methods described herein can be
 derived or obtained from a single placenta, or from multiple placentas. The placental cells
 can also be derived from a single species, e.g., the species of the intended recipient, or can be
 derived from multiple species. "Derived," as used herein, means isolated from placenta or
 umbilical cord, or expanded from cells isolated from placenta or umbilical cord.
                  4.1.1    Treatment of Interstitial Lung Diseases or Disorders
  [00301 In certain embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition of the lung treatable using
  placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, is an interstitial lung disease (also known as diffuse
  parenchymal lung disease). Thus, provided herein is a method of treating an individual
  having an interstitial lung disease, comprising administering a therapeutically effective
  amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to said individual, e.g., to the affected
  lung of said individual. In a specific embodiment, the method of treatment comprises
  assessing said individual for improvement in one or more parameters of lung function after
  said administering (e.g., from 7 days to 30 days afterwards), wherein said parameters of lung
  function are forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV 1 ); forced volume vital capacity
   (FVC); FEV / FVC; peak expiratory flow (PEF); forced expiratory flow 25%-50% or 25%
                1
   75% (average flow of air exiting the lung during the middle portion of the expiration); forced
   expiratory time (FET); total lung capacity (TLC); diffusing capacity, carbon monoxide
   (DLCO); or maximum voluntary ventilation. In a more specific embodiment, said
   administering results in improvement of one or more of said parameters of lung function (1)
   to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%. In a
                                                     -7-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
more specific embodiment, the method comprises identifying any of said parameters that,
prior to administration, are less than 80% of expected values for an individual of the same
height and weight, and assessing said parameters after said administering, wherein said
administering results in improvement of one or more of said parameters of lung function (1)
to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%.
[00311 In certain embodiments, the interstitial lung disease is not an obstructive airway
disease or obstructive lung disease. Such diseases may involve inflammation of the
interstitium, the tissue and space around the air sacs of the lungs. In certain embodiments,
the interstitial lung disease is not caused by inflammation. Symptoms of interstitial lung
disease include, without limitation, shortness of breath (particularly with exertion); fatigue;
weakness; loss of appetite; loss of weight; dry, nonproductive cough (little or no phlegm
production); discomfort in the chest; labored breathing; or evidence of hemorrhage in one or
both of the lungs.
[00321 Provided herein is a method of treating an individual having an interstitial lung
disease or disorder (e.g., a diffuse parenchymal lung disease), comprising administering to
said individual a therapeutically-effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem
cells,. In a specific embodiment, the therapeutically-effective amount of placental cells is an
amount that, permanently or transiently, results in a detectable improvement in, or lessening
of the worsening of, one or more symptoms of said interstitial lung disease. In a specific
embodiment, said symptom is a below-normal capacity of a lung of the individual to diffuse
carbon monoxide (e.g., low diffusion capacity of carbon monoxide (DLCO) compared to
normal). In certain more specific embodiments, said one or more symptoms of interstitial
lung disease comprises shortness of breath (particularly with exertion); fatigue; weakness;
loss of appetite; loss of weight; dry, nonproductive cough (little or no phlegm production);
discomfort in the chest; labored breathing; or evidence of hemorrhage in one or both of the
lungs.
[00331 In certain specific embodiments, said administration of placental cells, e.g., placental
stem cells, results in a detectable improvement in one or more measures of lung function in
said individual, e.g., as evidenced by spirometry, peak flow monitoring, forced expiratory
volume, or the like. In a more specific embodiment, said administration results in an increase
of at least 5%, 10%, 15% or 20% carbon monoxide diffusion, as compared to carbon
monoxide diffusion prior to administration, in a lung of said individual. In certain other
specific embodiments, said administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, results
in a detectable improvement in one or more of a chest X-ray, CT scan, MRI, bronchoscopy or
                                                 -8-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
similar scan (e.g., visible improvement in the appearance of the lung). In another specific
embodiment, said administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, results in a
detectable improvement in the level of carbon dioxide detectable in the blood (e.g.,
movement of CO 2 levels to within a normal range).
[00341 In a specific embodiment, the interstitial lung disease is not caused by lupus
erythematosus. In a more specific embodiment, said interstitial lung disease is not chronic
diffuse interstitial lung disease.
[00351 In certain embodiments, the interstitial lung disease is an interstitial lung disease with
fibrosis (e.g., a fibrotic lung disease), such as interstitial pulmonary fibrosis. In certain
embodiments, the interstitial lung disease, e.g., fibrotic lung disease, is idiopathic pulmonary
pneumonia, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis), pneumoconiosis,
asbestosis, baritosis, bauxite fibrosis, berylliosis, Caplan's syndrome, chalicosis, coal worker
pneumoconiosis, pulmonary sarcoidosis, siderosis, silicosis, byssinosis, hypersensitivity
pneumonitis, bagassosis, bird fancier's lung, or farmer's lung.
                  4.1.2   Treatment of Obstructive Lung Diseases and Disorders
 [00361 In certain embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition of the lung treatable using
 placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, is an obstructive lung disease or disorder. Thus,
 provided herein is a method of treating an individual having an obstructive lung disease or
 disorder, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g.,
 placental stem cells, to said individual, e.g., to the affected lung of said individual. In a
 specific embodiment, the method of treatment comprises assessing said individual for
 improvement in one or more parameters of lung function after said administering (e.g., from
 7 days to 30 days afterwards), wherein said parameters of lung function are forced expiratory
 volume in one second (FEV1 ); forced volume vital capacity (FVC); FEVi/ FVC; peak
 expiratory flow (PEF); forced expiratory flow 25%-50% or 25%-75% (average flow of air
 exiting the lung during the middle portion of the expiration); forced expiratory time (FET);
 total lung capacity (TLC); diffusing capacity, carbon monoxide (DLCO); or maximum
 voluntary ventilation. In a more specific embodiment, said administering results in
  improvement one of said parameters of lung function (1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2)
  by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%. In another more specific embodiment,
  the method comprises identifying any of said parameters that, prior to administration, are less
  than 80% of expected values for an individual of the same height and weight, and assessing
  said parameters after said administering, wherein said administering results in improvement
                                                    -9-

      WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
  in one or more of said parameters of lung function (1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by
  at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%.
   [00371 In specific embodiments, the obstructive lung disease is acute respiratory distress
  syndrome (ARDS), asthma, bronchiectasis, bronchiolectasis, bronchiolitis, bronchitis,
  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or emphysema. In another specific
  embodiment, the obstructive lung disease or disorder is not caused by an autoimmune
  disease. In a more specific embodiment, said obstructive lung disease or disorder is not
  caused by inflammatory bowel disease or graft-versus-host disease.
  [0038] Thus, provided herein is a method of treating an individual having an obstructive lung
  disease or disorder, comprising administering to said individual a therapeutically-effective
  amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells,. In a specific embodiment, the
  therapeutically-effective amount of placental cells is an amount that, permanently or
 transiently, results in a detectable improvement in, or lessening of worsening of, one or more
 symptoms of said obstructive lung disease or disorder.
  [00391 In a specific embodiment, said obstructive lung disease or disorder is chronic
 obstructive pulmonary disease, e.g., as diagnosed by a forced expiratory air volume in 1
 second (FEV1 ) to forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio of less than 0.7. In a more specific
 embodiment, said therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem
 cells, is an amount that results in a detectable rise in the FEVi/FEC ratio above 0.7 after
 administration, e.g., a rise of 0.02, 0.03, 0.04, 0.05, 0.06, 0.07, 0.08, 0.09, 0.10, or more or
 more.
 [0040] In another specific embodiment, said obstructive lung disease or disorder is asthma.
 In more specific embodiments, said therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g.,
 placental stem cells, is an amount that results in a detectable improvement in one or more
 symptoms of asthma, e.g., airway obstruction, as determined by spirometry or a peak flow
 meter.
 [00411 Treatment of an obstructive lung disease, disorder or condition can comprise
administration of a second therapeutic compound. In specific embodiments, e.g., wherein the
disease, disorder or condition of the lung is asthma, the second therapeutic composition or
second therapy can comprise one or more of an inhaled therapeutic compound or therapeutic
compound taken orally, e.g., without limitation, inhaled corticosteroids (e.g., hydrocortisone,
prednisone, prednisolone, methylprednisolonc, dexamethasone, betamethasone,
triamcinolone, beclometasone, fludrocortisone acetate, deoxycortisone acetate, aldosterone,
or the like), or inhaled beta agonists (e.g., salbutamol, levosalbutamol, terbutaline, pirbuterol,
                                                 -10-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
procaterol, metaproterenol, fenoterot, bitolterol, salmeterol, formoterol, bambuterol,
clenbuterol, indacaterol, or the like), leukotriene inhibitors (e.g., zileuton, MK-866,
montelukast, zafirlukast, or the like).
[00421 In other specific embodiments, wherein the disease, disorder or condition of the lung
is, e.g., COPD, the second therapeutic composition or second therapy can comprise one or
more of an inhaled beta agonist (see the list of beta agonists recited in the discussion of
treatment of asthma, above); or anticholinergics (e.g., ipratropium bromide (Atrovent),
oxitropium bromide (Oxivent), tiotropium (Spiriva), or the like).
                 4.1.3    Treatment of Lung Diseases, Disorders or
                          Conditions Caused by an Immune Response
 [00431 In certain embodiments, provided herein is a method of treating a lung of an
 individual having a disease, disorder or condition of the lung associated with or caused by a
 harmful, deleterious, inappropriate or unwanted immune response, comprising administering
 a therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to said
 individual, e.g, to an affected lung of said individual. In certain embodiments, the lung
 disease, disorder, or condition is, for example, an allergic or autoimmune disease affecting
 the lungs. In a specific embodiment, said disease, disorder or condition is a lung disorder or
 disease associated with, or caused by, lupus, e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma,
  graft-versus-host disease, or rheumatoid arthritis (e.g., rheumatoid lung disease).
  [00441 In a specific embodiment, the method of treatment comprises identifying, in an
  individual having an inappropriate immune response, e.g., an autoimmune disease, a
  symptom of said immune response in the lung; administering placental cells, e.g., placental
  stem cells, to said individual, e.g., to the affected lung of said individual; and assessing said
  individual for improvement in one or more parameters of lung function after said
  administering (e.g., from 7 days to 30 days afterwards), wherein said parameters of lung
  function are forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV 1); forced volume vital capacity
  (FVC); FEV 1/ FVC; peak expiratory flow (PEF); forced expiratory flow 25%-50% or 25%
   75% (average flow of air exiting the lung during the middle portion of the expiration); forced
   expiratory time (FET); total lung capacity (TLC); diffusing capacity, carbon monoxide
   (DLCO); or maximum voluntary ventilation. In a more specific embodiment, said
   administering results in improvement one of said parameters of lung function (1) to 80% or
   more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, or 10%, or more. In
   a more specific embodiment, the method comprises identifying any of said parameters that,
                                                    -11-

     WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
 prior to administration, are less than 80% of expected values for an individual of the same
 height and weight, and assessing said parameters after said administering, wherein said
 administering results in the improvement of one or more of said parameters of lung function
 (1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, or
  10%, or more.
 [0045] In certain embodiments, the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, used in the
 method suppress an immune response when contacted with a plurality of immune cells (e.g.,
 CD4* T cells, CD8 t T cells, or natural killer (NK) cells) in vivo, e.g., in an individual
 afflicted with said disease, disorder or condition affecting the lungs. In various specific
 embodiments, said contact is sufficient to suppress an immune function associated with, or
 causative of, said lung disease, disorder or condition by at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%
 or 95%, compared to immune function in the affected individual in the absence of the
 placental stem cells.
 [0046] The contacting of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, with immune cells can
 occur in vivo in the context of, or as an adjunct to, for example, grafting or transplanting of
 one or more types of tissues to a recipient individual. Such tissues may be, for example, lung
 tissue. In this regard, the placental stem cells can be used to suppress one or more immune
 responses of one or more immune cells contained within the recipient individual, within the
transplanted lung tissue, or both. The contacting can occur before, during and/or after the
grafting or transplanting. For example, placental stem cells can be administered at the time
of the transplant or graft. The placental cells can also, or alternatively, be administered prior
to the transplanting or grafting, e.g., about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 days prior to the transplanting
or grafting. Placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can also, or alternatively, be
administered to a transplant or graft recipient after the transplantation or grafting, for
example, about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 days after the transplanting or grafting. Preferably, the
placental cells are contacted with the immune cells before any detectable sign or symptom of
an immune response, either by the recipient individual or the transplanted tissue or graft, e.g.,
a detectable sign or symptom of graft-versus-host disease or detectable inflammation, is
detectable.
[00471 Treatment of an individual having a lung disorder, disease, or condition associated
with, worsened by, or caused by an unwanted or harmful immune response can additionally
comprise administration to the individual of one or more immunosuppressive agents,
particularly in the in vivo context. In one embodiment, the plurality of placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, are contacted with the plurality of immune cells in vivo in an individual,
                                                 -12-

    WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
and a composition comprising an immunosuppressive agent is administered to the individual
having the disease, disorder or condition of the lungs. Immunosuppressive agents are well
known in the art and include, e.g., anti-T cell receptor antibodies (monoclonal or polyclonal,
or antibody fragments or derivatives thereof), anti-IL-2 receptor antibodies (e.g., Basiliximab
(SIMULECT*) or daclizumab (ZENAPAX)®), anti T cell receptor antibodies (e.g.,
Muromonab-CD3), azathioprine, corticosteroids, cyclosporine, tacrolimus, mycophenolate
mofetil, sirolimus, calcineurin inhibitors, and the like. In a specific embodiment, the
immunosuppressive agent is a neutralizing antibody to macrophage inflammatory protein
(MIP)-l aor MIP-13. Preferably, the anti-MIP-la or MIP-1P antibody is administered in an
amount sufficient to cause a detectable reduction in the amount of MIP- 1a and/or MIP- 1P in
said individual, e.g., at the time of transplanting.
 [00481 In certain embodiments, an individual having a disease, disorder or condition of the
 lungs is treated by administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, and, optionally,
one or more therapeutic agents, at any time during the progression of the disease. For
 example, the individual can be treated immediately after diagnosis, or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6
 days of diagnosis, or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 or more
 weeks, or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more years after diagnosis. The individual can be
 treated once, or multiple times during the clinical course of the disease. The individual can
 be treated, as appropriate, during an acute attack, during remission, or during a chronic
 degenerative phase.
  [00491 In a specific embodiment, treatment of a disease, disorder or condition of the lung
 related to or caused by an inappropriate, deleterious or harmful immune response comprises
 administration of a population of a second type of cell, e.g., stem cells, in addition to the
 placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. In a specific embodiment, said stem cells are
  mesenchymal stem cells, e.g., bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. In other
  embodiments, the second type of cells are multipotent stem cells, pluripotent stem cells,
  progenitor cells, hematopoietic stem cells, e.g., CD34* hematopoietic stem cells (e.g.,
  contained within unprocessed bone marrow or cord blood, or cells isolated from bone marrow
  or cord blood), adult stem cells, embryonic stem cells, or embryonic germ cells. The second
  type of cell, e.g., mesenchymal stem cell, can be administered with the placental cells, e.g.,
  placental stem cells, in any ratio, e.g., a ratio of about 100:1, 75:1, 50:1, 25:1, 20:1, 15:1,
   10:1, 5:1, 1:1, 1:5, 1:10, 1:15, 1:20, 1:25, 1:50, 1:75 or 1:100. Mesenchymal stem cells can
  be obtained commercially or from an original source, e.g., bone marrow, bone marrow
   aspirate, adipose tissue, and the like.
                                                    -13-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
                        4.1.3.1 Lung Disorders Associated with Graft-Versus Host Disease
[00501 In certain embodiments, provided herein is a method of treating an individual, e.g., a
transplant recipient or individual who will receive, or has received, a transplant, comprising
administering to the individual, e.g., an affected lung of the individual, a therapeutically
effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. In certain embodiments, the
transplant is a lung transplant or a graft of a part of a lung. In certain other embodiments, the
transplant is a bone marrow transplant. In specific embodiments, the transplant recipient has,
is experiencing a symptom of, or is at risk for developing, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).
[00511 In one embodiment, the method of treatment comprises assessing an individual for
one or more parameters of lung function prior to a transplant, e.g., an organ transplant or
bone marrow transplant, and, if said one or more parameters worsen after said transplant,
administering a therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells,
wherein said parameters of lung function are forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1 );
forced volume vital capacity (FVC); FEVi/ FVC; peak expiratory flow (PEF); forced
expiratory flow 25%-50% or 25%-75% (average flow of air exiting the lung during the
middle portion of the expiration); forced expiratory time (FET); total lung capacity (TLC);
diffusing capacity, carbon monoxide (DLCO); or maximum voluntary ventilation. In a more
specific embodiment, said administering results in improvement one of said parameters of
lung function (1) to 80% or more of expected values for an individual of the same height and
weight; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, or 10%, or more.
[00521 In preferred embodiments, the method comprises administering to the individual a
therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells,, culture medium
conditioned by placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount is an amount that results in a detectable improvement in one or more symptoms, or
delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition of the lung
associated with or caused by or associated with transplant or GVHD. In certain
embodiments, said administration results in at least stabilization of one or more symptoms of
GVHD; that is, said one or more symptoms do not significantly improve, but do not
significantly worsen, either. In more specific embodiments, said one or more symptoms of
GVHD comprise obstructive lung disease (including any of wheezing dyspnea and/or chronic
coughing).
[0053] In certain embodiments, the method of treatment comprises an assessment of
effectiveness of the administration of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. For
                                                 -14-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
example, in one embodiment, the method of treating a lung disease or disorder caused by, or
associated with, a transplant or GVHD comprises (1) administering a therapeutically effective
amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, culture medium conditioned by placental
cells or umbilical cord cells, e.g., culture medium conditioned by placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells; and (2) assessing the individual for detectable improvement in one or
more symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or
condition of the lung associated with or caused by GVHD. In certain specific embodiments,
said method of treating comprises a second (or further) administration of placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, to said individual, optionally followed by a second (or further)
assessment of the individual for detectable improvement in one or more symptoms, or delay
of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition of the lung associated
with or caused by GVHD.
[00541 The method is not limited by the nature of the donor or recipient. Transplantation can
cross species lines. In preferred embodiments, the donor and recipient are the same species,
e.g., are both human. The transplant recipient can be fully- or partially-allogeneic to the
donor. The transplantation can be autologous. Transplant recipients or donors can be less
than five years of age, from 1 to 10 years of age, from 5 to 15 years of age, from 10 to 20
years of age, from 15 to 25 years of age, from 20 to 30 years of age, from 25 to 35 years of
 age, from 30 to 40 years of age, from 35 to 45 years of age, from 40 to 50 years of age, from
45 to 55 years of age, from 50 to 60 years of age, from 55 to 65 years of age, from 60 to 70
 years of age, or 70 years of age or older.
 [00551 The methods provided herein can be used to treat one or more pulmonary
 manifestations of GVHD in individuals exhibiting symptoms indicative of a grading or
 staging of the disease as shown in Tables 1 and 2, below. GVHD is generally graded by
 severity of symptoms. For example, in one embodiment, symptoms of GVHD are staged,
 and GVHD is graded from 0 (no GVHD) - IV (life-threatening GVHD) according to skin,
 liver, and/or intestinal symptoms, as shown in Tables 1 and 2.
 Table 1. Staging of Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease
                                                             Liver
          Stage             Skin                       (Bilirubin         Intestine
                                                  Level, mg/dL)
                                                                    Diarrhea 500-1000
                 Maculopapular rash on                        2-3   mL/d or persistent
                 <25% of body surface                               nausea
          ++     Maculopapular rash on                        3-6  "Diarrhea 1000-1500
                                              ....... ......5
                                                       -15-

     WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
                  25-50% of body surface                          mL/d
         +++      Generalized erythroderma            6-15        Diarrhea >1500 mL/d
                                                                  Pain with or without
         ++++     Desquamation and bullae             >15
                                                                  ileus
  Table 2. Grading of Acute GVHD
                                                           Stage
             Overall Grade
                                       Skin         Liver         Gut
                                                                           Impairment
         0 (None)                        0            0             0             0
         I (Mild)                    + to ++          0             0             0
                  ................
         II (Moderate)               + to +++         +             +             +
         III (Severe)              IH+ to +++    ++ to +++     ++ to +++         ++
         IV (Life threatening) ++ to ++++ ++ to ++++.++ to ++++                 +         |
  [0056] In specific embodiments, the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, are
 administered to the individual within 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 or 1 day prior to
 transplantation. In another specific embodiment, the placental cells are administered
 concurrently with transplantation. In another specific embodiment, the placental cells are
 administered within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14 days of transplantation.
 Administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can be performed multiple times,
 e.g., multiple times before, with or after transplantation, or any combination thereof. In
 another embodiment, placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, are administered at any time
 post-transplantation when graft-versus-host disease of Grade II or worse is manifested in the
 individual (transplant recipient).
 [00571 In another embodiment of the method, the individual, e.g., transplant recipient or an
 individual who will receive a transplant, is administered a therapeutically effective amount of
placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, and additionally at least one other therapeutic agent.
In a specific embodiment, the therapeutic agent is athymocyte globulin, mycophenolate
mofetil, sirolimus, Campath-1H, keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), suberoylanilide
hydroxamic acid (SAHA), cortisone, hydrocortisone, predisone, or methylprednisone. In
another specific embodiment, the therapeutic agent is an immunosuppressive agent or
immunomodulatory agent. Immunosuppressive agents and immunomodulatory agents that
can be used as second agents to treat GVHD, e.g., to treat a manifestation of GVHD in the
                                                 -16-

     WO 2010/060031                                                        PCT/US2009/065509
lungs, include, but are not limited to, methotrexate, leflunomide, cyclophosphamide,
cyclosporine A, macrolide antibiotics (e.g., FK506 (tacrolimus)), methylprednisolone (MP),
corticosteroids, steroids, mycophenolate mofetil, rapamycin (sirolimus), mizoribine,
deoxyspergualin, brequinar, malononitriloamindes (e.g., leflunamide), T cell receptor
modulators, and cytokine receptor modulators. peptide mimetics, and antibodies (e.g., human,
humanized, chimeric, monoclonal, polyclonal, Fvs, ScFvs, Fab or F(ab) 2 fragments or epitope
binding fragments), nucleic acid molecules (e.g., antisense nucleic acid molecules and triple
helices), small molecules, organic compounds, and inorganic compounds. In particular,
immunomodulatory agents include, but are not limited to, methotrexate, leflunomide,
 cyclophosphamide, cytoxan, Immuran, cyclosporine A, minocycline, azathioprine, antibiotics
 (e.g., FK506 (tacrolimus)), methylprednisolone (MP), corticosteroids, steroids,
 mycophenolate mofetil, rapamycin (sirolimus), mizoribine, deoxyspergualin, brequinar,
 malononitriloamindes (e.g., leflunamide), T cell receptor modulators, and cytokine receptor
 modulators. Examples of T cell receptor modulators include, but are not limited to, anti-T cell
 receptor antibodies (e.g., anti-CD4 antibodies (e.g., cM-T412 (Boehringer), IDEC-CE9.Is
 (IDEC and SKB), mAB 4162W94, ORTHOCLONE@ and OKTcdr4a (Janssen-Cilag)), anti
 CD3 antibodies (e.g., NUVION@ (Product Design Labs), OKT3 (Johnson & Johnson), or
 Rituxan (IDEC)), anti-CD5 antibodies (e.g., an anti-CD5 ricin-linked immunoconjugate),
 anti-CD7 antibodies (e.g., CHH-380 (Novartis)), anti-CD8 antibodies, anti-CD40 ligand
 monoclonal antibodies (e.g., IDEC-131 (IDEC)), anti-CD52 antibodies (e.g., CAMPATH@
  IH (Ilex)), anti-CD2 antibodies, anti-CDIa antibodies (e.g., Xanelim (Genentech)), and anti
  B7 antibodies (e.g., IDEC-1 14) (IDEC))), CTLA4-immunoglobulin, thalidomide, or one of
  the compounds in Section 5.6.6, above. In a specific embodiment, a T cell receptor
  modulator is a CD2 antagonist. In other embodiments, a T cell receptor modulator is not a
  CD2 antagonist. In another specific embodiment, the agent is antibody MEDI-501 (T10B9).
  In another specific embodiment, a T cell receptor modulator is a CD2 binding molecule,
  preferably MEDI-507. In other embodiments, a T cell receptor modulator is not a CD2
  binding molecule. Any combination of the above therapeutic agents, suitable for treatment of
  GVHD or a symptom of GVHD, can be administered to the individual. Such therapeutic
  agents can be administered in any combination with the placental cells, e.g., placental stem
  cells, culture medium conditioned by placental cells, umbilical cord cells, e.g., umbilical cord
  stem cells, and/or culture medium conditioned by umbilical cord cells, at the same time or as
   a separate course of treatment.
                                                -17-

   WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
                        4.1.3.2 Lung Disorders Associated with Rheumatoid Arthritis
[00581 In another embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating an individual that has,
or is experiencing a symptom of, or is at risk for developing, a disease, disorder or condition
of the lung associated with, or caused by, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), comprising
administering to the individual a therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, or culture medium conditioned by placental cells, wherein said
therapeutically effective amount is an amount that results in a detectable improvement in one
or more symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or
condition of the lung associated with or caused by RA. In certain embodiments, said
administration results in at least stabilization of one or more symptoms of RA that manifest in
a lung of the individual; that is, said one or more symptoms do not significantly improve, but
do not significantly worsen, either.
[00591 In certain embodiments, the method of treatment comprises identifying, in an
individual having RA, a symptom of said RA in the lung; administering a therapeutically
effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to said individual, e.g., to the
affected lung of said individual; and assessing said individual for improvement in one or
more parameters of lung function after said administering (e.g., from 7 days to 30 days
afterwards), wherein said parameters of lung function are forced expiratory volume in one
second (FEV1 ); forced volume vital capacity (FVC); FEVi/ FVC; peak expiratory flow
(PEF); forced expiratory flow 25%-50% or 25%-75% (average flow of air exiting the lung
during the middle portion of the expiration); forced expiratory time (FET); total lung capacity
(TLC); diffusing capacity, carbon monoxide (DLCO); or maximum voluntary ventilation. In
a more specific embodiment, said administering results in improvement one of said
parameters of lung function (1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%,
5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%. In a more specific embodiment, the method comprises
identifying any of said parameters that, prior to administration, are less than 80% of expected
values for an individual of the same height and weight, and assessing said parameters after
said administering, wherein said administering results in the improvement one of said
parameters of lung function (1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%,
5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%.
[00601 In a specific embodiment, the administration is sufficient to cause a detectable
improvement in one or more symptoms of RA, or condition adjunct to RA, or sufficient to
detectably reduce the onset of one or more symptoms of RA or condition adjunct to RA, in a
                                                -18-

      WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
lung in the individual, e.g., painful breathing, shortness of breath (e.g., due to pleural
effusion), development or presence of lung nodules (rheumatoid nodules), scarring of the
lungs (pulmonary fibrosis or bronchiolitis obliterans), viral infection of the lung, fibrosis of
the lungs (e.g., as a consequence of methotrexate therapy).
 [00611 In certain embodiments, the method of treatment comprises an assessment of
effectiveness of the administration of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. For
 example, in one embodiment, the method of treating a lung disease or disorder caused by, or
 associated with, RA comprises (1) administering a therapeutically effective amount of
 placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, and/or culture medium conditioned by placental
 cells; and (2) assessing the individual for detectable improvement in one or more symptoms,
 or delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition of the lung
 associated with or caused by RA. In certain specific embodiments, said method of treating
 comprises a second (or further) administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to
 said individual, optionally followed by a second (or further) assessment of the individual for
 detectable improvement in one or more symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more
 symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition of the lung associated with or caused by RA.
  [00621 In a specific embodiment of the method, the individual having a disease, disorder or
  condition of the lung associated with RA is administered therapeutically effective amount of
  placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, or culture medium conditioned by placental cells,
  and additionally at least one other therapeutic agent, e.g., an analgesic or an anti
  inflammatory agent. In more specific embodiments, the at least one other therapeutic agent is
  a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD), e.g., a xenobiotic (e.g., azathioprine,
  cyclosporine A, D-pennicillamine, gold salts, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide,
  methotrexate, minocycline or sulfasalazine) or a biological agent (e.g., tumor necrosis factor
  alpha (TNF-a) blockers, such as etanercept (ENBREL@), infliximab (REMICADE@),
  adalimumab (HUMIRA@); interleukin-1 blockers; anti-B cell (CD20) antibody (e.g.,
  rituximab or RITUXAN@); or blockers of T cell activation (e.g., abatacept or ORENCIA@).
   In another more specific embodiment, the analgesic or anti-inflammatory agent is a
   glucocorticoid, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, acetaminophen, ibuprofen, aspirin, an
   opiate, or lidocaine (topical). Such therapeutic agents can be administered in any
   combination with the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, at the same time or as a
   separate course of treatment.
    [00631 In a specific embodiment, a plurality of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells,
   administered to an individual having RA, are genetically engineered to express a polypeptide
                                                    -19-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
 therapeutic for RA. In a more specific embodiment, the polypeptide therapeutic for RA is IL
  IRa (interleukin-1 receptor antagonist). In another more specific embodiment, the
 polypeptide therapeutic for RA is a fusion protein comprising IL-IRa and DHFR
 (dihydrofolate reductase). In a more specific embodiment, the placental cells are transformed
 with a nucleic acid encoding IL-1 Ra-DHFR fusion protein, wherein expression of the fusion
 protein is enhanced by an antifolate, e.g., methotrexate. In an even more specific
 embodiment, the nucleic acid encodes IL-lRa-DHFR-IRES-Luc, where IRES is an internal
 ribosomal entry site, and Luc is luciferase. In another specific embodiment, said nucleic acid
 comprises a nucleotide sequence that enables control of expression of the IL-1 Ra or IL-IRa
 DHFR fusion polypeptide.
                          4.1.3.3 Lung Disorders Associated with Lupus Erythematosus
 [00641 In another embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating an individual that has,
or is experiencing a symptom of, a disease, disorder or condition of the lung associated with,
or caused by, lupus erythematosus (LE), comprising administering to the individual a
therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, or culture
medium conditioned by placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, wherein said therapeutically
effective amount is an amount that results in a detectable improvement in one or more
symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition
of the lung associated with or caused by LE. In certain embodiments, said administration
results in at least stabilization of one or more symptoms of LE that manifest in a lung of the
individual; that is, said one or more symptoms do not significantly improve, but do not
significantly worsen, either. In specific embodiments, said symptoms comprise pleuritis
(with or without effusion), lupus pneumonitis or chronic diffuse interstitial lung disease.
[00651 In certain embodiments, the method of treatment comprises identifying, in an
individual having LE, a symptom of said LE in the lung; administering placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, to said individual, e.g., to the affected lung of said individual; and
assessing said individual for improvement in one or more parameters of lung function after
said administering (e.g., from 7 days to 30 days afterwards), wherein said parameters of lung
function are forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1 ); forced volume vital capacity
(FVC); FEVI/ FVC; peak expiratory flow (PEF); forced expiratory flow 25%-50% or 25%
75% (average flow of air exiting the lung during the middle portion of the expiration); forced
expiratory time (FET); total lung capacity (TLC); diffusing capacity, carbon monoxide
(DLCO); or maximum voluntary ventilation. In a more specific embodiment, said
                                                 -20-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
administering results in improvement of one or more of said parameters of lung function (1)
to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%. In a
more specific embodiment, the method comprises identifying any of said parameters that,
prior to administration, are less than 80% of expected values for an individual of the same
height and weight, and assessing said parameters after said administering, wherein said
administering results in the improvement of one or more of said parameters of lung function
(1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2) by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%.
 [00661 In certain embodiments, the method of treatment comprises an assessment of
effectiveness of the administration of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. For
example, in one embodiment, the method of treating a lung disease or disorder caused by, or
associated with, LE comprises (1) administering a therapeutically effective amount of
placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, or culture medium conditioned by placental cells;
 and (2) assessing the individual for detectable improvement in one or more symptoms, or
 delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition of the lung
 associated with or caused by LE. In certain specific embodiments, said method of treating
 comprises a second (or further) administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to
 said individual, optionally followed by a second (or further) assessment of the individual for
 detectable improvement in one or more symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more
 symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition of the lung associated with or caused by LE.
                          4.1.3.4 Lung Disorders Associated with Scleroderma
  [00671 In another embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating an individual that has,
 or is experiencing a symptom of, a disease, disorder or condition of the lung associated with,
 or caused by, scleroderma, comprising administering to the individual a therapeutically
 effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, or culture medium conditioned
 by placental cells, wherein said therapeutically effective amount is an amount that results in a
  detectable improvement in one or more symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more
  symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition of the lung associated with or caused by
  scleroderma. In certain embodiments, said administration results in at least stabilization of
  one or more symptoms of scleroderma that manifest in a lung of the individual; that is, said
  one or more symptoms do not significantly improve, but do not significantly worsen, either.
  In specific embodiments, said symptoms comprise dyspnea (shortness of breath), interstitial
  lung disease (also referred to as fibrosing alveolitis or pulmonary fibrosis) or pulmonary
  vascular disease (alone or including pulmonary hypertension).
                                                  -21-

     WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
  [00681 In certain embodiments, the method of treatment comprises identifying, in an
  individual having scleroderma, a symptom of said scleroderma in the lung; administering a
  therapeutically effective amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to said
  individual, e.g., to the affected lung of said individual; and assessing said individual for
  improvement in one or more parameters of lung function after said administering (e.g., from
  7 days to 30 days afterwards), wherein said parameters of lung function are forced expiratory
  volume in one second (FEV1 ); forced volume vital capacity (FVC); FEV1 / FVC; peak
  expiratory flow (PEF); forced expiratory flow 25%-50% or 25%-75% (average flow of air
  exiting the lung during the middle portion of the expiration); forced expiratory time (FET);
 total lung capacity (TLC); diffusing capacity, carbon monoxide (DLCO); or maximum
 voluntary ventilation. In a more specific embodiment, said administering results in
  improvement one of said parameters of lung function (1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2)
 by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%. In a more specific embodiment, the
 method comprises identifying any of said parameters that, prior to administration, are less
 than 80% of expected values for an individual of the same height and weight, and assessing
 said parameters after said administering, wherein said administering results in the
 improvement one of said parameters of lung function (1) to 80% or more of expected; or (2)
 by at least 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 50%.
 [00691 In certain embodiments, the method of treatment comprises an assessment of
 effectiveness of the administration of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. For
 example, in one embodiment, the method of treating a lung disease or disorder caused by, or
 associated with, scleroderma comprises (1) administering a therapeutically effective amount
 of placental cells or umbilical cord cells, e.g., placental stem cells, or culture medium
 conditioned by placental cells; and (2) assessing the individual for detectable improvement in
 one or more symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder
 or condition of the lung associated with or caused by scleroderma. In certain specific
 embodiments, said method of treating comprises a second (or further) administration of
placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to said individual, optionally followed by a second
(or further) assessment of the individual for detectable improvement in one or more
symptoms, or delay of onset of one or more symptoms, of the disease, disorder or condition
of the lung associated with or caused by scleroderma.
 [0070] In a specific embodiment, said individual is assessed for diffusing capacity for carbon
monoxide (DLCO), and improvement in the individual comprises a significant improvement
in DLCO after administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, (e.g., an increase of
                                                  -22-

    WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
at least 3, 4, 5 or more percentage points) compared with DLCO prior to administration. In
another specific embodiment, said individual is assessed for forced vital capacity (FVC), and
improvement in the individual comprises an increase in FVC of at least 10% at least 15% or
at least 20% after administration of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, compared
with FVC prior to administration, e.g. for a period of at least 1, 2, 3, or 4 weeks, or 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12 months after administration.
[00711 In another specific embodiment, the individual is assessed for lung scarring or
pulmonary hypertension using, e.g., high resolution CT scan of the lungs, bronchoalveolar
lavage, and/or surgical lung biopsy.
 [00721 In a specific embodiment of the method, the individual having a disease, disorder or
condition of the lung associated with RA is administered placental cells, e.g., placental stem
 cells, or culture medium conditioned by placental cells, and additionally at least one other
therapeutic agent. In more specific embodiments, the therapeutic agent comprises, without
 limitation, an inhibitor of collagen synthesis and/or collagen crosslinking (e.g.,
 penicillamine), a steroid (e.g., prednisone), cyclophosphamide (e.g., CYTOXAN@), a
 combination of cyclophosphamide and a steroid, a combination of cyclophosphamide and
 azathioprine, an antifibrotic (e.g., interferon-gamma (IFN-y)), an antiendothelin (e.g.,
 Bosentan (TRACLEER@)), a prostacyclin analog (e.g., epoprostenol (FLOLAN@),
 treprostinil (REMODULIN@)), and/or an endothelin receptor (e.g., endothelin receptor B)
 antagonist (e.g., sitaxentan, ambrisentan (LETAIRISTM)).
                           4.1.3.5 Determining Immunosuppressive Potential of Placental Cells
  [00731 In certain optional embodiments, the capacity of a particular population of placental
  cells, e.g., placental stem cells, for immunosuppression is determined prior to use, e.g., prior
  to administration to an individual having a disease, disorder or condition of the lung
  associated with or caused by an inappropriate or unwanted immune response. For example,
  the MLR can be used to determine the immunosuppressive capacity of a particular population
  of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, e.g., a particular dose of placental cells, e.g.,
  placental stem cells. Procedures for performing the MLR and regression assays are well
  known in the art. See, e.g. Schwarz, "The Mixed Lymphocyte Reaction: An In Vitro Test for
  Tolerance," . Exp. Med. 127(5):879-890 (1968); Lacerda et al., "Human Epstein-Barr Virus
   (EBV)-Specific Cytotoxic T Lymphocytes Home Preferentially to and Induce Selective
   Regressions of Autologous EBV-Induced B Lymphoproliferations in Xenografted C.B-17
   Scid/Scid Mice," J. Exp. Med. 183:1215-1228 (1996). In a preferred embodiment, an MLR is
                                                   -23-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
 performed in which a plurality of placental stem cells are contacted with a plurality of
 immune cells (e.g., lymphocytes, for example, CD3 t , CD4' and/or CD8' T lymphocytes).
 For example, a plurality of placental cells can be tested in an MLR comprising combining
 CD4' or CD8 t T cells, dendritic cells (DC) and placental cells in a ratio of about 10:1:2,
 wherein the T cells are stained with a dye such as, e.g., CFSE that partitions into daughter
 cells, and wherein the T cells are allowed to proliferate for about 6 days. The plurality of
 placental cells is immunosuppressive if the T cell proliferation at 6 days in the presence of
 placental cells is detectably reduced compared to T cell proliferation in the presence of DC
 and absence of placental cells. In such an MLR, placental cells are either thawed or
 harvested from culture. About 20,000 placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, are
 resuspended in 100 pt of medium (RPMI 1640, 1 mM HEPES buffer, antibiotics, and 5%
 pooled human serum), and allowed to attach to the bottom of a well for 2 hours. CD4' and/or
 CD8' T cells are isolated from whole peripheral blood mononuclear cells using Miltenyi
 magnetic beads. The cells are CFSE stained, and a total of 100,000 T cells (CD4* T cells
 alone, CD8* T cells alone, or equal amounts of CD4' and CD8* T cells) are added per well.
The volume in the well is brought to 200tl, and the MLR is allowed to proceed.
                 4.1.4   Treatment of Other Lung Diseases or Disorders
 [00741 Also provided herein are methods of treating lung diseases, disorders or conditions
arising from other causes, comprising administering to an individual having said disease,
disorder or condition, e.g., to an affected lung of said individual, a therapeutically effective
amount of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. For example, in certain embodiments,
provided herein is a method of treating an individual having a disease, disorder or condition
affecting the lungs, wherein said disease, disorder, or condition of the lung is an acute lung
injury. In specific embodiments, said acute lung injury is one or more of physical trauma,
injury due to drug or chemotherapeutic toxicity (e.g., toxicity due to treatment with
bleomycin, cyclophosphamide, nitrofurantoin, methotrexate, combination 5-fluorouracil and
oxaliplatinum therapy or the like), a radiation-induced injury, a chemical injury, e.g., a
chemical burn, smoke inhalation, exposure to a toxic substance, or chemically-induced
pneumonia.
[0075] In certain other embodiments, said lung disease, disorder, or condition is an injury
caused by a neoplastic or parancoplastic disease.
                                               -24-

     WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
[00761 In still other embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition affecting the lung is a
viral or bacterial infection of the lung (e.g., pneumonia), an infectious lung disease, or cystic
fibrosis.
[00771 In specific embodiments, the disease, disorder or condition of the lung is an
environmental lung disease, a granulomatous disease, an obstructive disease, a vascular
disease, a neoplasm, or a pleural disorder.
                  4.1.5   Second Therapeutic Compositions and Second Therapies
 [00781 In any of the above methods of treatment, the method can comprise the administration
of a second therapeutic composition or second therapy. Second therapeutic compositions or
 second therapies can consist of, or comprise, the specific second therapeutic compositions or
 second therapies listed above for the lung-related diseases, disorders or conditions discussed
 in Sections 4.1.2-4.1.4, above. However, the recitation of specific second therapeutic
 compounds or second therapies in the methods of treating specific diseases, above, are not
 intended to be exclusive. For example, any of the diseases, disorders or conditions discussed
 herein can be treated with any of the anti-inflammatory compounds or immunosuppressive
 compounds described herein.
  [00791 In embodiments in which placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, are administered
 with a second therapeutic agent, e.g., a second type of cell, the placental cells and second
  therapeutic agent can be administered at the same time or different times, e.g., the
  administrations can take place within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50 minutes of
  each other, or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, or 22 hours of each other, or
  within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 8, 9 or 10 days of each other.
  [00801 In another specific embodiment, said second therapy comprises an
  immunomodulatory compound, wherein the immunomodulatory compound is a compound
  having the structure
                             N
                                             O
           H2N
                                                                                      2
   wherein one of X and Y is C=O, the other of X and Y is C=O or CH 2 , and R is hydrogen or
   lower alkyl, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, hydrate, solvate, clathrate, enantiomer,
                                                     -25-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
 diastereomer, racemate, or mixture of stereoisomers thereof. In another more specific
 embodiment, said immunomodulatory compound is a compound having the structure
                                0
                          \ N~       )Y\
              N
              H
         wherein one of X and Y is C=O and the other is CH 2 or C=O;
         R' is H, (C 1-C 8 )alkyl, (C3-C 7)cycloalkyl, (C 2-Cs)alkenyl, (C2 -Cs)alkynyl, benzyl,
 aryl, (Co-C 4)alkyl-(CI-C 6 )heterocycloalkyl, (Co-C 4)alkyl-(C2-Cs)heteroaryl, C(O)R 3 , C(S)R 3,
 C(O)OR 4 , (Ci-Cs)alkyl-N(R) 2, (Ci-Cs)alkyl-OR', (Ci-Cs)alkyl-C(O)OR', C(O)NHR3 ,
 C(S)NHR 3, C(O)NRR3         , C(S)NR 3R3 or (C1 -Cs)alkyl-O(CO)R 5 ;
         R2 is H, F, benzyl, (C 1 -Cs)alkyl, (C2-Cs)alkenyl, or (C2 -Cs)alkynyl;
         R3 and R3 ' are independently (CI-Cs)alkyl, (C3-C7)cycloalkyl, (C2-Cs)alkenyl, (C2
 Cs)alkynyl, benzyl, aryl, (Co-C 4)alkyl-(CI-C 6)heterocycloalkyl, (Co-C 4)alkyl-(C 2
 C5)heteroaryl, (Co-Cs)alkyl-N(R6 ) 2 , (C1-Cs)alkyl-OR 5, (CI-Cs)alkyl-C(O)OR, (CI-Cs)alkyl
 O(CO)R 5 , or C(O)OR5 ;
         R4 is (CI-Cs)alkyl, (C 2-Cs)alkenyl, (C 2-Cs)alkynyl, (Ci-C 4)alkyl-OR5 , benzyl, aryl,
 (Co-C 4)alkyl-(CI-C 6)heterocycloalkyl, or (Co-C 4)alkyl-(C 2-C5)heteroaryl;
         R5 is (CI-C 8)alkyl, (C2-Cs)alkenyl, (C 2-Cs)alkynyl, benzyl, aryl, or (C 2-C5)heteroaryl;
         each occurrence of R6 is independently H, (Ci-C 8)alkyl, (C2-Cs)alkenyl, (C2
Cs)alkynyl, benzyl, aryl, (C2-C 5)heteroaryl, or (Co-Cs)alkyl-C(O)O-R      5
                                                                             or the R6 groups can
join to form a heterocycloalkyl group;
         n is 0 or 1; and
         * represents a chiral-carbon center;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, hydrate, solvate, clathrate, enantiomer,
diastereomer, racemate, or mixture of stereoisomers thereof. In another more specific
embodiment, said immunomodulatory compound is a compound having the structure
                 R1            0    R
                          N             O
                R4
         wherein:
                                                 -26-

    WO 2010/060031                                                               PCT/US2009/065509
         one of X and Y is C=O and the other is CH2 or C=O;
          R is H or CH 2OCOR';
          (i) each of R1, R2, R3 , or R4, independently of the others, is halo, alkyl of I to 4 carbon
                                                                     3                         5
atoms, or alkoxy of 1 to 4 carbon atoms or (ii) one of R1, R2, R , or R is nitro or -NHR and
                                                                             4
the remaining of R', R2, R3 , or R4 are hydrogen;
          R5 is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 8 carbons
          R6 hydrogen, alkyl of 1 to 8 carbon atoms, benzo, chloro, or fluoro;
          R' is R7 -CHR 10 -N(RR 9);
          R7 is m-phenylene or p-phenylene or -(C.H 2 )- in which n has a value of 0 to 4;
          each of R' and R9 taken independently of the other is hydrogen or alkyl of 1 to 8
 carbon atoms, or R8 and R9 taken together are tetramethylene, pentamethylene,
 hexamethylene, or -CH 2CH 2X1CH2CH 2- in which Xi is -0-, -S-, or -NH-;
           R10 is hydrogen, alkyl of to 8 carbon atoms, or phenyl; and
           * represents a chiral-carbon center;
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, hydrate, solvate, clathrate, enantiomer, diastereomer,
 racemate, or mixture of stereoisomers thereof.
 [01001 In more specific embodiments, the immunomodulatory compound is 3-(4-amino-1
 oxo-1,3-dihydroisoindol-2-yl)-piperidine-2,6-dione (lanalidomide); 3-(4'aminoisolindoline
  1'-one)-1-piperidine-2,6-dione; 4-(Amino)-2-(2,6-dioxo(3-piperidyl))-isoindoline- 1,3-dione
 (pomalidomide); or a-(3-aminophthalimido) glutarimide (lenalidomide).
  [00811 Placental stem cells can be administered to an individual suffering a disease, disorder
 or condition of the lung in the form of a pharmaceutical composition, e.g., a pharmaceutical
  composition suitable for intravenous, intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection. Placental
  stem cells can be administered in a single dose, or in multiple doses. Where placental stem
  cells are administered in multiple doses, the doses can be part of a therapeutic regimen
  designed to relieve one or more acute symptoms of a lung disease, condition, or disorder, or
  can be part of a long-term therapeutic regimen designed to prevent, or lessen the severity, of a
  chronic course of the disease. In embodiments in which placental stem cells are administered
  with a second therapeutic agent, or with a second type of cell, the placental stem cells and
  second therapeutic agent and/or second type of stem cell can be administered at the same
  time or different times, e.g., the administrations can take place within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
   10, 20, 30, 40, or 50 minutes of each other, or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, or
   22 hours of each other, or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 8, 9 or 10 days of each other.
                                                   -27-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
                 4.1.6   Administration of Placental Cells
[00821 Administration of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can be by any
medically acceptable route. In specific embodiments, placental cells, e.g., placental stem
cells, are administered intravenously, intra-arterially, parenterally, subcutaneously,
intramuscularly, intraperitoneally, or the like. The placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells,
can be administered systemically, or directly to an affected area of the lung. In certain
embodiments, the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, are administered to the individual
by inhalation, e.g., in a spray, aerosol, by external or mechanical ventilation, or by direct
application (e.g., injection or topical application) to a part of the lung, e.g., trachea, bronchus,
bronchiole, lobule, alveolus, or the like.
[00831 For in vivo administration, placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can be formulated
as a pharmaceutical composition, as described below.
[00841 In one embodiment, the individual is administered a dose of about 200 million
placental cells. Dosage, however, can vary according to the individual's physical
characteristics, e.g., weight, and can range from 1 million to 10 billion placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, per dose, preferably between 10 million and 1 billion per dose, or
between 100 million and 50 million placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, per dose.
[00851 Administration during a course of treatment of an individual having a disease,
disorder or condition of the lung can comprise a single administration of placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, or multiple administrations of placental cells. If more than one
administration of placental cells is used in the course of treatment, the individual can be given
the same approximate number of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, per administration,
or can be given different numbers of placental cells. For example, in one embodiment, an
individual suffering from a disease, disorder or condition of the lung is administered an
initial, relatively large dose of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, while subsequent
administrations comprise administration of a relatively smaller number of placental cells,
e.g., about 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%,
75%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% of the number of cells in the initial dose.
          4.2     PLACENTAL CELLS AND PLACENTAL CELL POPULATIONS
 [00861 The methods of treatment of diseases, disorders or conditions of the lung, provided
herein comprise administration of placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to an individual
having the disease, disorder or condition. Placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, useful in
the methods of treatment described herein, and methods of obtaining and culturing such cells,
                                                  -28-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
are described, e.g., in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,045,148; 7,255,879; 7,311,904; and 7,311,905; and
in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2007/0275362 and 2008/0226595, the
disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[0087] The placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can be either fetal or maternal in origin
(that is, can have the genotype of either the mother or fetus). Populations of placental cells,
e.g., placental stem cells, or populations of cells comprising placental cells, can comprise
placental cells that are solely fetal or maternal in origin, or can comprise a mixed population
of placental cells of both fetal and maternal origin. The placental cells, e.g., placental stem
cells, and populations of cells comprising the placental cells, can be identified and selected by
the morphological, marker, and culture characteristics discussed below.
                           Physical and Morphological Characteristics
 [00881 The cells, e.g., placental stem cells useful in the methods of treating lung diseases,
 disorders or conditions disclosed herein, when cultured in primary cultures or in cell culture,
 adhere to the tissue culture substrate, e.g., tissue culture container surface (e.g., tissue culture
 plastic)          ils in culture assume a generally fibroblastoid, stellate appearance, with a
 number of cyotplasmic processes extending from the central cell body. The cells are,
 however, morphologically differentiable from fibroblasts cultured under the same conditions.
 For example, the cells generally exhibit a greater number of such processes than do
 fibroblasts grown under the same conditions. Morphologically, the cells are also
 distinguishable from hematopoietic stem cells, which generally assume a more rounded, or
 cobblestone, morphology in culture.
                  4.2.2    Cell Surface, Molecular and Genetic Markers
  [00891 The isolated placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, and populations of isolated
 placental stem cells, useful in the methods of treatment disclosed herein, are tissue culture
 plastic-adherent human placental cells or umbilical cord cells that have characteristics of
 multipotent cells or stem cells, and express a plurality of markers that can be used to identify
 and/or isolate the cells, or populations of cells that comprise the stem cells. The isolated
 placental stem cells, and cell populations comprising placental stem cells (that is, two or more
 isolated cells), described herein, include cells and cell-containing cell populations obtained
  directly from the placenta, or any part thereof (e.g., amnion, chorion, placental cotyledons,
  and the like) or umbilical cord. Isolated placental stem cell populations also include
                                                   -29-

     WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
 populations of (that is, two or more) isolated placental stem cells in culture, and a population
 in a container, e.g., a bag.
 [00901 The isolated placental stem cells described herein are not bone marrow-derived
 mesenchymal cells, adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells, or mesenchymal cells obtained
 from umbilical cord blood, placental blood, or peripheral blood. As used herein, the term
 "placental stem cells" encompass any of the stem cells or multipotent cells described in this
 section. The isolated placental stem cells are also not trophoblasts. Trophoblasts in culture
 typically form multinucleated cells called syncytiotrophoblasts; placental stem cells, in
 contrast, do not form multinucleated cells in culture, but instead expand as a population of
 uninuclear cells, similar to the expansion of fibroblasts.
 [00911 In certain embodiments, the placental stem cells are isolated stem cells. In certain
 other embodiments, the placental stem cells are isolated multipotent cells. In one
 embodiment, the isolated cells are CD34-, CD 10' and CD 105' as detected by flow
 cytometry. In a specific embodiment, the isolated CD34~, CD10t, CD105t cells are stem
 cells. In another specific embodiment, the isolated CD34-, CD1OT , CD105 cells are
 multipotent cells. In another specific embodiment, the isolated CD34-, CDlO, CD105* cells
have the potential to differentiate into cells of a neural phenotype, cells of an osteogenic
phenotype, and/or cells of a chondrogenic phenotype. In another specific embodiment, the
 isolated CD34-, CD 10, CD105t cells are additionally CD200t . In another specific
embodiment, the isolated CD34 , CD 10,t CD105 t cells are additionally CD45 or CD90.            In
another specific embodiment, the isolated CD34-, CD 10, CD105t cells are additionally
CD45 - and CD90, as detected by flow cytometry. In a more specific embodiment, the
isolated CD34-, CD 10, CD 105, CD200 t cells are additionally CD90* or CD45-, as detected
by flow cytometry. In another more specific embodiment, the isolated CD34~, CD10,
CD 105, CD200* cells are additionally CD90 and CD45~, as detected by flow cytometry,
i.e., the cells are CD34~, CD1O*, CD45~, CD90*, CD105* and CD200 t . In a more specific
embodiment, said CD34~, CD10t, CD45~, CD90*, CD105t, CD200 cells are additionally
CD80- and CD86-.
[00921 In a specific embodiment, any of the CD34~, CD10, CD105 t cells described above
are additionally one or more of CD29 t , CD38-, CD44, CD54 t , SH3 or SH4*. In another
more specific embodiment, the cells are additionally CD44 t . In another specific embodiment
of any of the isolated CD34-, CD10, CD105 cells above, the cells are additionally one or
more of CD117-, CD 133-, KDR~ (VEGFR2-), HLA-A,B,C t , HLA-DP,DQ,DR-, or
Programmed Death-I Ligand (PDL 1), or any combination thereof.
                                                -30-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
[00931 In another embodiment, the CD34~, CD10*, CD105* cells are additionally one or
more of CD 13, CD29*, CD33 t , CD38-, CD44*, CD45-, CD54 t , CD62E-, CD62L-, CD62P-,
SH3 t (CD73*), SH4 t (CD73 t ), CD80-, CD86~, CD90*, SH2* (CD105t), CD106NCAM*,
CD117-, CD144NE-cadherin'ow, CD184/CX<CR4-, CD200 t , CD133~, OCT-4*, SSEA3-,
SSEA4-, ABC-p t , KDR- (VEGFR2-), HLA-A,B,C t , HLA-DP,DQ,DR-, HLA-G t , or
Programmed Death-I Ligand (PDL1)*, or any combination thereof. In a other embodiment,
                                                                                             t
the CD34-, CD10 t , CD105+ cells are additionally CD13 t , CD29*, CD33 t , CD38-, CD44 ,
CD45-, CD54/ICAM t , CD62E~, CD62L-, C[)62P-, SH3 t (CD73 t ), SH4* (CD73 t ), CD80-,
CD86-, CD90 t , SH2 t (CD1057), CD106NCAM t , CD 117-, CD144NE-cadherin",
CD184/CXCR4-, CD200 t , CD133-, OCT-4*, SSEA3-, SSEA4-, ABC-p t , KDR7 (VEGFR2-),
HLA-A,B,C', HLA-DP,DQ,DR7, HLA-G', and Programmed Death-1 Ligand (PDL1)'.
                                                                                             t
 [00941 In certain embodiments, the cells are one or more of SSEA3~, SSEA4~ or ABC-p .
The isolated cells can also express HLA-ABC (MHC-1). These markers can be used, in any
combination, to identify the isolated cells, e.g., isolated stem cells or isolated multipotent
cells and to distinguish the isolated cells from other cell types. Lack of expression of CD34,
 CD38 and/or CD45, for example, identifies the isolated cells as non-hematopoietic stem cells.
 [00951 Also provided herein are populations of the isolated cells, or populations of cells, e.g.,
 populations of placental cells or umbilical cord cells, comprising, e.g., that are enriched for,
 placental stem cells, that are useful in the methods of treatment disclosed herein. Preferred
 populations of cells comprising placental stem cells, wherein the populations of cells are
 useful in the methods of treatment disclosed herein, comprise, e.g., at least 10%, 15%, 20%,
 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or
 98% placental stem cells, e.g., isolated CD 10t, CD105t and CD34 cells; that is, at least 10%,
  15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%,
 95% or 98% of cells in said population are placental stem cells, e.g., isolated CD10*, CD105*
 and CD34- cells. In a specific embodiment, the isolated CD34-, CD10, CD 105t cells are
  additionally CD200 t . In a more specific embodiment, the isolated CD34-, CD10*, CD105+,
  CD200 t cells are additionally CD90 t or CD45-, as detected by flow cytometry. In another
                                                                               t
 more specific embodiment, the isolated CD34-, CD1Ot , CD105 t , CD200 cells are
  additionally CD90* and CD45-, as detected by flow cytometry. In a more specific
  embodiment, any of the isolated CD34-, CD10 t , CD105 t cells described above are
                                                                                 t
  additionally one or more of CD29 t , CD38-, CD44 t , CD54 t , SH3* or SH4 . In another more
                                                                                                t
  specific embodiment, the isolated CD34-, CD10, CD105+ cells, or isolated CD34-, CD 10,
  CD105t, CD200 t cells, are additionally CD44 t . In a specific embodiment of any of the
                                                 -31-

    WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
 populations of cells comprising isolated CD34-, CD10+, CD105+ cells above, the isolated
 cells are additionally one or more of CD13*, CD29*, CD33+, CD38~, CD44*, CD45-, CD54*,
 CD62E-, CD62L-, CD62P-, SH3 t (CD73 t ), SH4 t (CD73*), CD80-, CD86-, CD90+, SH2 t
 (CD105), CD106NCAM t , CD1 IT, CD144NE-cadherinow, CD184/CXCR4-, CD200 t ,
 CD133-, OCT-4 t , SSEA3-, SSEA4~, ABC-p, KDR- (VEGFR2-), HLA-A,B,C*, HLA
 DP,DQ,DR-, HLA-G t , or Programmed Death-i Ligand (PDL1)*, or any combination thereof.
 In a more specific embodiment, the CD34~, CD10, CD105+ cells are additionally CD13,
 CD29*, CD33*, CD38-, CD44*, CD45-, CD54/ICAM*, CD62E-, CD62L-, CD62P-, SH3*
 (CD73+), SH4 t (CD73*), CD80~, CD86-, CD90*, SH2* (CD 105), CD106NCAM t , CD1 IT,
 CD144NE-cadherin", CD184/CXCR4-, CD200*, CD133-, OCT-4, SSEA3-, SSEA4-,
 ABC-p', KDR (VEGFR2-), HLA-A,B,C', HLA-DP,DQ,DR-, HLA-G', and Programmed
 Death-I Ligand (PDL 1)*.
 [0096] In certain embodiments, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 described herein are isolated cells that are one or more, or all, of CD10, CD29*, CD34~,
 CD38-, CD44, CD45 , CD54*, CD90*, SH2 t , SH3 t , SH4*, SSEAY, SSEA4-, OCT-4*, and
 ABC-p , wherein said isolated cells are obtained by physical and/or enzymatic disruption of
 placental tissue or umbilical cord tissue. In a specific embodiment, the isolated cells are
 OCT-4* and ABC-p*. In another specific embodiment, the isolated cells are OCT-4* and
 CD34~, wherein said isolated cells have at least one of the following characteristics: CD10,
 CD29 t , CD44 t , CD45 -, CD54*, CD90*, SH3, SH4*, SSEA3 , and SSEA4.           In another
 specific embodiment, the isolated cells are OCT-4' CD34 , CD10+, CD29, CD44*, CD45-,
 CD54*, CD90+, SH3, SH4, SSEA3-, and SSEA4 . In another embodiment, the isolated
cells are OCT-4 t , CD34 , SSEA3-, and SSEA4 . In a more specific embodiment, the isolated
cells are OCT-4 and CD34-, and either SH2* or SH3*. In a more specific embodiment, the
isolated cells are OCT-4*, CD34-, SH2, and SH3*. In another more specific embodiment,
the isolated cells are OCT-4*, CD34-, SSEAY, and SSEA4~, and are either SH2* or SH3*. In
another more specific embodiment, the isolated cells are OCT-4 and CD34-, and either SH2 t
or SH3*, and at least one of CD1O t , CD29*, CD44*, CD45~, CD54t , CD90*, SSEAY, or
SSEA4-. In another more specific embodiment, the isolated cells are OCT-4 t , CD34-,
CD10*, CD29*, CD44 t , CD45-, CD54, CD90*, SSEAY, and SSEA4-, and either SH2* or
SH3*.
[00971 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
disclosed herein are SH2, SH3*, SH4* and OCT-4 t cells. In a more specific embodiment,
the isolated cells are CD1Ot , CD29*, CD44*, CD54*, CD90*, CD34-, CD45~, SSEA3-, or
                                                -32-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
SSEA4~. In another embodiment, the isolated cells are SH2*, SH3*, SH4*, SSEA3- and
SSEA4~. In a more specific embodiment, the isolated cells are SH2*, SH3, SH4*, SSEA3
and SSEA4--, CD10+, CD29+, CD44+, CD54*, CD90*, OCT-4, CD34~ or CD45-.
[0098] In another embodiment, the placental stem cells useful in the methods disclosed
herein are CD 10, CD29+' CD34-, CD44T ' CD45-, CD54*, CD90*, SH2*, SH3*, and SH4*;
wherein the cells are additionally one or more of OCT-4*, SSEA3- or SSEA4-.
[00991 In certain embodiments, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
disclosed herein are CD200* or HLA-G*. In a specific embodiment, the cells are CD200+
and HLA-G*. In another specific embodiment, the cells are additionally CD73+ and CD105*.
In another specific embodiment, the cells are additionally CD34~, CD38~ or CD45-. In
another specific embodiment, the cells are additionally CD34-, CD38- and CD45~. In another
specific embodiment, the cells are CD34-, CD38-, CD45-, CD73* and CD105+. In another
specific embodiment, the isolated CD200' or HLA-G* cells facilitate the formation of
embryoid-like bodies in a population of placental cells comprising the cells, under conditions
that allow the formation of embryoid-like bodies. In another specific embodiment, the
placental stem cells are isolated away from placental cells or umbilical cord cells that are not
 stem or multipotent cells. In another specific embodiment, the placental stem cells are
 isolated away from placental stem cells that do not display the markers described above.
 [01001 In another embodiment, a cell population useful in the methods of treatment described
 herein is an isolated population of cells comprising, e.g., that is enriched for, CD200+, HLA
 G*placental stem cells. In a specific embodiment, said population is a population of
 placental cells. In another specific embodiment, said population is a population of umbilical
 cord cells. In various specific embodiments, at least about 10%, at least about 20%, at least
 about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, or at least about 60% of cells in said cell
 population are isolated CD200*, HLA-G* cells. Preferably, at least about 70% of cells in said
 cell population are isolated CD200*, HLA-G+ cells. More preferably, at least about 80%,
 90%, 95%, or 99% of said cells are isolated CD200 t , HLA-G* cells. In a specific
 embodiment of the cell populations, said isolated CD200+, HLA-G* cells are also CD73* and
 CD105*. In another specific embodiment, said isolated CD200*, HLA-G* cells are also
  CD34~, CD38~ or CD45~. In a more specific embodiment, said isolated CD200*, HLA-G+
  cells are also CD34-, CD38-, CD45-, CD73* and CD105+. In another embodiment, said cell
  population produces one or more embryoid-like bodies when cultured under conditions that
  allow the formation of embryoid-like bodies. In another embodiment, the CD200*, HLA-G*
  cells produces one or more embryoid-like bodies when cultured under conditions that allow
                                                -33-

     WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
 the formation of embryoid-like bodies. In another specific embodiment, said cell population
 is isolated away from cells that are not stem cells. In another specific embodiment, said
 isolated CD200*, HLA-G* cells are isolated away from placental cells or umbilical cord cells
 that do not display these markers.
 [0101] In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 described herein are isolated CD73+, CD105t, and CD200* cells. In another specific
 embodiment, the cells are HLA-G*. In another specific embodiment, the isolated cells are
 CD34-, CD38 or CD45-. In another specific embodiment, the cells are CD34-, CD38~ and
 CD45~. In a more specific embodiment, the cells are CD34-, CD38-, CD45~, and HLA-G*.
 In another specific embodiment, the isolated CD73*, CD105*, and CD200* cells facilitate the
 formation of one or more embryoid-like bodies in a population of placental cells or umbilical
 cord cells comprising the placental stem cells, when the population is cultured under
 conditions that allow the formation of embryoid-like bodies. In another specific embodiment,
 the isolated placental cells are isolated away from placental cells or umbilical cord cells that
 do not display these markers.
 [01021 In another embodiment, a cell population useful in the methods of treatment described
herein is an isolated population of cells comprising, e.g., that is enriched for, isolated CD73*,
CD105+, CD200* placental stem cells. In a specific embodiment, said population is a
population of placental cells. In another specific embodiment, said population is a population
of umbilical cord cells. In various embodiments, at least about 10%, at least about 20%, at
least about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, or at least about 60% of cells in said
cell population are said CD73+, CD105*, CD200 cells. In another embodiment, at least
about 70% of said cells in said cell population are isolated CD73*, CD105*, CD200* cells. In
another embodiment, at least about 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% of cells in said cell population
are isolated CD73*, CD105+, CD200* cells. In a specific embodiment of said cell population,
the isolated cells are HLA-G*. In another specific embodiment, the isolated cells are
additionally CD34-, CD38- or CD45-. In another specific embodiment, the isolated cells are
additionally CD34~, CD38~ and CD45~. In a more specific embodiment, the isolated cells are
additionally CD34-, CD38-, CD45~, and HLA-G*. In another specific embodiment, said cell
population produces one or more embryoid-like bodies when cultured under conditions that
allow the formation of embryoid-like bodies. In another specific embodiment, said cell
population is isolated away from cells that are not stem cells. In another specific
embodiment, said isolated CD73*, CDl05*, CD200+ cells are isolated away from placental
cells or umbilical cord cells that do not display these markers.
                                                -34-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
[01031 In certain other embodiments, the placental stem cells are isolated placental or
umbilical cord cells that are one or more of CD10-, CD29*, CD34~, CD38-, CD44*, CD45-,
CD54*, CD90*, SH2*, SH3*, SH4*, SSEA3-, SSEA4-, OCT-4*, HLA-G* or ABC-pT. In a
                                                                              t
specific embodiment, the cells are CD10*, CD29*, CD34~, CD38-, CD44 , CD45~, CD54*,
CD90*, SH2*, SH3*, SH4*, SSEA3-, SSEA4-, and OCT-4+. In another specific embodiment,
the cells are CD10*, CD29+, CD34~, CD38~, CD45-, CD54*, SH2, SH3*, and SH4+. In
another specific embodiment, the cells are CD10*, CD29*, CD34-, CD38-, CD45~, CD54*,
SH2*, SH3*, SH4* and OCT-4*. In another specific embodiment, the cells are CD1O*,
CD29*, CD34-, CD38~, CD44*, CD45~, CD54*, CD90, HLA-G*, SH2*, SH3*, SH4*. In
                                                     t
another specific embodiment, the cells are OCT-4 and ABC-p*. In another specific
embodiment, the cells are SH2', SH3', SH4' and OCT-4'. In another embodiment, the cells
are OCT-4, CD34~, SSEAY, and SSEA4-. In a specific embodiment, the OCT-4, CD34-,
 SSEAY, and SSEA4- cells are additionally CD10', CD29', CD34~, CD44 , CD45-, CD54',
 CD90*, SH2*, SH3*, and SH4*. In another embodiment, the cells are OCT-4* and CD34-,
 and either SH3* or SH4*. In another embodiment, the cells are CD34~ and either CD10+,
 CD29*, CD44*, CD54+, CD90+, or OCT-4*.
 [01041 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 described herein are isolated CD200* and OCT-4* cells. In a specific embodiment, the cells
 are CD73* and CD105*. In another specific embodiment, the cells are HLA-G*. In another
 specific embodiment, said isolated CD200, OCT-4* cells are CD34-, CD38- or CD45 . In
                                                                t
 another specific embodiment, said isolated CD200*, OCT-4 cells are CD34-, CD38- and
 CD45 . In a more specific embodiment, said isolated CD200*, OCT-4* cells are CD34-,
 CD38-, CD45 -, CD73*, CD105* and HLA-G*. In another specific embodiment, the isolated
 CD200*, OCT-4* cells facilitate the production of one or more embryoid-like bodies by a
 population of placental cells or umbilical cord cells that comprises the placental stem cells,
 when the population is cultured under conditions that allow the formation of embryoid-like
                                                                            t
 bodies. In another specific embodiment, the isolated CD200, OCT-4 cells are isolated
  away from placental cells that are not stem cells or multipotent cells. In another specific
  embodiment, the isolated CD200*, OCT-4+ cells are isolated away from placental cells that
  do not display these markers.
  [01051 In another embodiment, a cell population useful in the methods of treatment described
  herein is an isolated population of cells comprising, e.g., that is enriched for, CD200*, OCT
  4* placental stem cells. In various embodiments, at least about 10%, at least about 20%, at
  least about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, or at least about 60% of cells in said
                                                -35-

     WO 2010/060031    |                                                      PCT/US2009/065509
 cell population are the isolated CD200*, OCT-4* cells. In another embodiment, at least about
 70% of said cells are the isolated CD200*, OCT-4* cells. In another embodiment, at least
 about 80%, 90%, 95%/, or 99% of cells in said cell population are said isolated CD200*,
 OCT-4+ cells. In a specific embodiment of the isolated populations, said isolated CD200*,
 OCT-4* cells are additionally CD73* and CD105+. In another specific embodiment, said
 isolated CD200*, OCT-4+ cells are additionally HLA-G*. In another specific embodiment,
 said isolated CD200*, OCT-4* cells are additionally CD34~, CD38- and CD45-. In a more
 specific embodiment, said isolated CD200*, OCT-4* cells are additionally CD34-, CD38-,
 CD45~, CD73*, CD105* and HLA-G*. In another specific embodiment, the cell population
 produces one or more embryoid-like bodies when cultured under conditions that allow the
 formation of embryoid-like bodies.
 [01061 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 described herein are isolated CD73 ', CD105' and HLA-G' cells. In another specific
 embodiment, the isolated CD73*, CD105* and HLA-G* placental cells are additionally
 CD34-, CD38- or CD45-. In another specific embodiment, the isolated CD73*, CD105*,
 HLA-G* placental cells are additionally CD34-, CD38- and CD45-. In another specific
 embodiment, the isolated CD73+, CD105+, HLA-G* placental cells are additionally OCT-4*.
 In another specific embodiment, the isolated CD73+, CD105+, HLA-G* placental cells are
 additionally CD200*. In a more specific embodiment, the isolated CD73*, CD105*, HLA-G+
placental cells are additionally CD34-, CD38 , CD45-, OCT-4* and CD200+. In another
 specific embodiment, the isolated CD73, CD105*, HLA-G* placental cells facilitate the
formation of embryoid-like bodies in a population of placental cells comprising said cells,
when the population is cultured under conditions that allow the formation of embryoid-like
bodies. In another specific embodiment, said the isolated CD73*, CD105*, HLA-G* placental
cells are isolated away from placental cells that are not the isolated CD73*, CD105*, HLA-G*
placental cells. In another specific embodiment, said the isolated CD73*, CD105+, HLA-G+
placental cells are isolated away from placental cells that do not display these markers.
[0107] In another embodiment, a cell population useful in the methods of treatment described
herein is an isolated population of cells comprising, e.g., that is enriched for, isolated CD73+,
CD105* and HLA-G*F placental stem cells. In various embodiments, at least about 10%, at
least about 20%, at least about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, or at least about
60% of cells in said population of cells arc CD73*, CD105*, HLA-G* cells. In another
embodiment, at least about 70% of cells in said population of cells are isolated CD73*,
CD105*, HLA-G+ cells. In another embodiment, at least about 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% of
                                              -36-

   WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
cells in said population of cells are isolated CD73*, CD105*, HLA-G* cells. In a specific
embodiment of the above populations, said isolated CD73', CD105+, HLA-G* cells are
additionally CD34-, CD38~ or CD45-. In another specific embodiment, said isolated CD73 t ,
CD105, HLA-GT cells are additionally CD34-, CD38- and CD45-. In another specific
                                                       t
embodiment, said isolated CD73 t , CD105*, HLA-G cells are additionally OCT-4*. In
                                                     t
another specific embodiment, said isolated CD73 , CD105*, HLA-G* cells are additionally
CD200 t . In a more specific embodiment, said isolated CD73*, CD105+, HLA-G* cells are
                                               t
additionally CD34-, CD38-, CD45-, OCT-4 and CD200*.
[01081 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
described herein are isolated cells that are CD73* and CD 105+ and facilitate the formation of
one or more embryoid-like bodies in a population of isolated cells comprising said CD73 -,
CD105+ cells when said population is cultured under conditions that allow formation of
embryoid-like bodies. In another specific embodiment, said isolated CD73 ', CD105'- cells
are additionally CD34~, CD38- or CD45-. In another specific embodiment, said isolated
CD73 t , CD105* cells are additionally CD34-, CD38~ and CD45~. In another specific
                                                                              t
 embodiment, said isolated CD73 t , CD105t cells are additionally OCT-4 . In a more specific
                                                                              t
 embodiment, said isolated CD73 t , CD105+ cells are additionally OCT-4 , CD34-, CD38- and
                                                                 t
 CD45-. In another specific embodiment, said isolated CD73 , CD105t cells are isolated
 away from placental cells or umbilical cord cells that do not display these characteristics.
 [01091 In another embodiment, a cell population useful in the methods of treatment described
 herein is a population of cells comprising, e.g., that is enriched for, isolated placental stem
 cells that are CD73 t , CD105* and facilitate the formation of one or more embryoid-like
 bodies in a population of isolated placental cells or umbilical cord cells comprising said cells
 when said population is cultured under conditions that allow formation of embryoid-like
 bodies. In various embodiments, at least about 10%, at least about 20%, at least about 30%,
 at least about 40%, at least about 50%, or at least about 60% of cells in said population of
 cells are said isolated CD73 t , CD105* cells. In another embodiment, at least about 70% of
 cells in said population of cells are said isolated CD73*, CD105t cells. In another
 embodiment, at least about 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% of cells in said population of cells are
 said isolated CD73, CD 105* placental cells. In a specific embodiment of the above
 populations, said isolated CD73 , CD105+ cells are additionally CD34~, CD38~ or CD45-. In
                                    t
  another specific embodiment, said isolated CD73*, CD105+ cells are additionally CD34-,
  CD38- and CD45-. In another specific embodiment, said isolated CD73, CD105t cells are
                                                                                 t
  additionally OCT-4 t . In another specific embodiment, said isolated CD73 , CD105* cells are
                                                  -37-

     WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
 additionally CD200'. In a more specific embodiment, said isolated CD73+, CD105+ cells are
 additionally CD34-, CD38~, CD45~, OCT-4* and CD200.             In another specific embodiment,
 said cell population is isolated away from placental cells that do not display these markers.
  [0110] In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 described herein are isolated OCT-4* cells that facilitate formation of one or more embryoid
 like bodies in a population of isolated placental cells comprising said cells when cultured
 under conditions that allow formation of embryoid-like bodies. In a specific embodiment,
 said isolated OCT-4* placental cells are additionally CD73+ and CD105+. In another specific
 embodiment, said isolated OCT-4* placental cells are additionally CD34~, CD38-, or CD45-.
 In another specific embodiment, said isolated OCT-4* placental cells are additionally
 CD200'. In a more specific embodiment, said isolated OCT-4' placental cells are
 additionally CD73, CD105*, CD200*, CD34-, CD38-, and CD45-. In another specific
 embodiment, said isolated OCT-4' placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, are isolated away
 from placental cells that are not OCT-4* placental cells. In another specific embodiment, said
 isolated OCT-4* placental cells are isolated away from placental cells that do not display
 these characteristics.
 [01111 In another embodiment, a cell population useful in the methods of treatment described
 herein is a population of cells comprising, e.g., that is enriched for, placental stem cells that
 are OCT-4* and facilitate the formation of one or more embryoid-like bodies in a population
of isolated placental cells or umbilical cord cells comprising said cells when said population
 is cultured under conditions that allow formation of embryoid-like bodies. In various
embodiments, at least about 10%, at least about 20%, at least about 30%, at least about 40%,
at least about 50%, or at least about 60% of cells in said population of cells are said isolated
OCT-4* cells. In another embodiment, at least about 70% of cells in said population of cells
are said isolated OCT-4* cells. In another embodiment, at least about 80%, 90%, 95% or
99% of cells in said population of cells are said isolated OCT-4* cells. In a specific
embodiment of the above populations, said isolated OCT-4* cells are additionally CD34-,
CD38- or CD45-. In another specific embodiment, said isolated OCT-4* cells are
additionally CD34-, CD38~ and CD45-. In another specific embodiment, said isolated OCT
4* cells are additionally CD73* and CD105*. In another specific embodiment, said isolated
OCT-4* cells are additionally CD200*. In a more specific embodiment, said isolated OCT-4*
cells are additionally CD73*, CD105*, CD200+, CD34~, CD38-, and CD45-. In another
specific embodiment, said cell population is isolated away from placental cells or umbilical
cord cells that do not display these markers.
                                               -38-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
[01121 In another embodiment, the placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
described herein are isolated HLA-A,B,C t , CD45~, CD133~ and CD34- placental cells. In
another embodiment, a cell population useful for the methods of treatment of described
herein is an isolated population of cells comprising placental stem cells, wherein at least
about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95% or at least about 99%
of cells in said isolated population of cells are isolated HLA-A,B,C+, CD45-, CD133- and
CD34~ placental stem cells. In a specific embodiment, said isolated cell or population of
                                                                      t
isolated cells is isolated away from cells that are not HLA-A,B,C , CD45-, CD133~ and
CD34~ cells. In another specific embodiment, said isolated placental cells are non-maternal
in origin. In another specific embodiment, said isolated population of cells are substantially
free of maternal components; e.g., at least about 40%, 45%, 5-0%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%,
75%, 90%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% of said cells in said isolated population of cells are
 non-maternal in origin.
 [01131 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 described herein are isolated CD10*, CD13+, CD33+, CD45-, CD117- and CD133- cells. In
 another embodiment, a cell population useful for the methods of treatment described herein is
 a population of cells comprising placental stem cells, wherein at least about 70%, at least
 about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95% or at least about 99% of cells in said
 population of cells are isolated CD 10, CD 13, CD33*, CD45-, CD1 IT and CD1 33~
 placental stem cells. In a specific embodiment, said isolated cells or isolated population of
 cells is isolated away from cells that are not said cells. In another specific embodiment, said
 isolated CD10, CD13, CD33*, CD45 , CD1 IT and CD133~ cells are non-maternal in
 origin, i.e., have the fetal genotype. In another specific embodiment, at least about 40%,
 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 90%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% of said cells in
 said isolated population of cells are non-maternal in origin. In another specific embodiment,
 said isolated cells or isolated population of placental cells are isolated away from cells that do
 not display these characteristics.
  [01141 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
  described herein are isolated CD10~, CD33-, CD44*, CD45-, and CD117- cells. In another
  embodiment, a cell population useful for the methods of treatment disclosed herein is a
  population of cells comprising, e.g., enriched for, isolated placental cells, wherein at least
  about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95% or at least about 99%
  of cells in said population of cells are isolated CD10-, CD33-, CD44*, CD45-, and CD117~
  placental stem cells. In a specific embodiment, said isolated cell or isolated population of
                                                   -39-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
cells is isolated away from cells that are not said cells. In another specific embodiment, said
isolated cells are non-maternal in origin. In another specific embodiment, at least about 40%,
45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 90%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% of said cells in
said cell population are non-maternal in origin. In another specific embodiment, said isolated
cell or isolated population of placental cells is isolated away from cells that do not display
these markers.
[01151 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
described herein are isolated CD10~, CD13-, CD33-, CD45-, and CD117- cells. In another
embodiment, a cell population useful for the methods of treatment disclosed herein is an
isolated population of cells comprising, e.g., enriched for, isolated CD10~, CD13~, CD33-,
CD45-, and CD1 IT placental stem cells, wherein at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at
least about 90%, at least about 95% or at least about 99% of cells in said population are said
CD10~, CD13~, CD33-, CD45-, and CDI IT cells. In a specific embodiment, said isolated
cells or isolated population of cells are isolated away from cells that are not said cells. In
another specific embodiment, said isolated cells are non-maternal in origin. In another
specific embodiment, at least about 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 90%, 85%,
90%, 95%, 98% or 99% of said cells in said cell population are non-maternal in origin. In
another specific embodiment, said isolated cells or isolated population of cells is isolated
away from cells that do not display these characteristics.
 [01161 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
described herein are HLA A,B,C', CD45 , CD34 , and CD133 cells that are additionally
 CD10+, CD13', CD38+, CD44+, CD90*, CD105+, CD200+ and/or HLA-G*, and/or negative
 for CD 117. In another embodiment, a cell population useful for the methods of treatment
 disclosed herein is an isolated population of cells comprising, e.g., enriched for, isolated
placental stem cells, wherein at least about 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%,
 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or about 99% of the cells in said
population are placental stem cells that are HLA A,B,C-, CD45-, CD34-, CD133~, and that
 are additionally positive for CD10, CD13, CD38, CD44, CD90, CD105, CD200 and/or HLA
 G, and/or negative for CD 117. In a specific embodiment, said isolated cells or isolated
population of cells are isolated away from cells that are not said cells. In another specific
 embodiment, said isolated placental cells are non-maternal in origin. In another specific
 embodiment, at least about 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 90%, 85%, 90%,
 95%, 98% or 99% of said cells in said cell population are non-maternal in origin. In another
                                                 -40-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
specific embodiment, said isolated cells or isolated population of cells are isolated away from
placental cells that do not display these markers.
[01171 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
described herein are isolated cells that are CD200* and CD 10*, as determined by antibody
binding, and CD1 IT, as determined by both antibody binding and RT-PCR. In another
embodiment, the placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment disclosed herein are
isolated cells, e.g., stem cells or multipotent cells, that are CD10, CD29-, CD54, CD200 t ,
HLA-G*, HLA class I+and        p-2-microglobulin+.
[01181 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
described herein are isolated placental cells or umbilical cord cells, e.g., placental stem cells,
placental multipotent cells, umbilical cord stem cells or umbilical cord multipotent cells, that
are one or more of CD10, CD29, CD44, CD45-, CD54/ICAM*, CD62E-, CD62L-,
CD62P-, CD80~, CD86-, CD103-, CD104-, CD105', CD106NCAM', CD144NE
cadherin"', CD184/CXCR4,           2-microglobuin'W, MHC-I ', MHC-II-, HLA-G "',and/or
PDL1lo'. In a specific embodiment, the isolated cells are at least CD29* and CD54+. In
another specific embodiment, the isolated cells are at least CD44+ and CD106*. In another
specific embodiment, the isolated cells are at least CD29*.
 [0119] In another embodiment, a cell population useful in the methods of treatment described
 herein comprises isolated placental stem cells, and at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%,
 98% or 99% of the cells in said cell population are isolated placental stem cells that are one
 or more of CD10, CD29, CD44, CD45 , CD54/ICAM*, CD62-E-, CD62-L , CD62-P ,
                                                                                        low
 CD80, CD86-, CD103-, CD104, CD105*, CD106NCAM*, CD144NE-cadherin
 CD184/CXCR4-, $2-microglobulin ', HLA-I", HLA-II-, HLA-G"", and/or PDLI "w. In a
 more specific embodiment, at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% of
 placental stem cells in said cell population are CD10, CD29, CD44*, CD45-, CD54/ICAM*,
 CD62-E-, CD62-L-, CD62-P~, CD80~, CD86~, CD103~, CD104-, CD105, CD106NCAM*,
 CD 144NE-cadherinlo", CD 184/CXCR4~, 02-microglobulin", MHC-I', MHC-II-, HLA
 Glow, and PDL1
  [01201 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 described herein are isolated placental cells or umbilical cord cells (e.g., stem cells or
 multipotent cells) that are one or more, or all, of CD10*, CD29, CD34~, CD38-, CD44,
 CD45-, CD54*, CD90*, SH2*, SH3*, SH4*, SSEA3, SSEA4-, OCT-4, and ABC-p*, where
 ABC-p is a placenta-specific ABC transporter protein (also known as breast cancer resistance
 protein (BCRP) and as mitoxantrone resistance protein (MXR)), wherein said placental stem
                                                 -41-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
cells are obtained by perfusion of a mammalian, e.g., human, placenta that has been drained
of cord blood and perfused to remove residual blood.
[01211 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
described herein are isolated placental cells or umbilical cord cells wherein the expression of
at least one cellular marker in said cells is at least two-fold higher than for a mesenchymal
stem cell (e.g., a bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cell) or dermal fibroblast. In
another specific embodiment, said isolated cells are non-maternal in origin (i.e., have the fetal
genotype). In another specific embodiment, said pare contained within a cell population,
wherein at least about 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 90%, 85%, 90%, 95%,
98% or 99% of cells in said cell population are placental stem cells that are non-maternal in
origin.
 [01221 Gene profiling confirms that isolated placental stem cells, and isolated populations of
placental stem cells, are distinguishable from other cells, e.g., dermal fibroblasts or
mesenchymal stem cells, e.g., bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, on the basis of
expression of certain genes. The isolated placental stem cells described herein can be
distinguished from, e.g., dermal fibroblasts or bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells
on the basis of the expression of one or more genes, the expression of which is significantly
higher (e.g., statistically significantly higher, or twofold higher) in the placental stem cells in
comparison to the dermal fibroblasts or bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. In
particular, placental stem cells can be distinguished from mesenchymal stem cells on the
basis of the expression of one or more genes, the expression of which is significantly higher
(that is, at least twofold higher) in the placental stem cells than in an equivalent number of
dermal fibroblasts or bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, wherein the one or more
genes are ACTG2, ADARB1, AMIGO2, ARTS-1, B4GALT6, BCHE, Cl lorf9, CD200,
COL4A1, COL4A2, CPA4, DMD, DSC3, DSG2, ELOVL2, F2RL1, FLJ10781, GATA6,
GPR126, GPRC5B, HLA-G, ICAMI, IER3, IGFBP7, ILlA, IL6, IL18, KRT18, KRT8,
LIPG, LRAP, MATN2, MEST, NFE2L3, NUAK1, PCDH7, PDLIM3, PKP2, RTN1,
SERPINB9, ST3GAL6, ST6GALNAC5, SLC12A8, TCF21, TGFB2, VTN, ZC3H12A, or a
combination of any of the foregoing, when the cells are grown under equivalent conditions.
See, e.g., U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007/0275362, the disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In a more specific embodiment, said
placental stem cells express said one or more genes (differentially compared to dermal
fibroblasts or bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells) when cultured for from about 3
to about 35 population doublings in a medium comprising DMEM-LG (e.g., from Gibco); 2%
                                                 -42-

    WO 2010/060031                                                         PCT/US2009/065509
fetal calf serum (e.g., from Hyclone Labs.); 1x insulin-transferrin-selenium (ITS); 1x linoleic
                                                                                        4
acid-bovine serum albumin (LA-BSA); 10-9 M dexamethasone (e.g., from Sigma); 10- M
ascorbic acid 2-phosphate (e.g., from Sigma); epidermal growth factor 10 ng/mL (e.g., from
R&D Systems); and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-BB) 10 ng/mL (e.g., from R&D
Systems). In a specific embodiment, the placental stem cell-specific gene is CD200.
 [01231 Specific sequences for these genes can be found in GenBank at accession nos.
NM_001615 (ACTG2), BC065545 (ADARBI), (NM_181847 (AMIGO2), AY358590
(ARTS-1), BC074884 (B4GALT6), BC008396 (BCHE), BC020196 (C11orf9), BC031103
 (CD200), NM_001845 (COL4A1), NM_001846 (COL4A2), BC052289 (CPA4), BC094758
 (DMD), AF293359 (DSC3), NM 001943 (DSG2), AF338241 (ELOVL2), AY336105
 (F2RL1), NM_018215 (FLJ10781), AY416799 (GATA6), BC075798 (GPR126),
NM_016235 (GPRC5B), AF340038 (ICAM1), BC000844 (IER3), BC066339 (IGFBP7),
 BC013142 (ILlA), BT019749 (IL6), BC007461 (1L18), (BC072017) KRT18, BC075839
 (KRT8), BC060825 (LIPG), BC065240 (LRAP), BC010444 (MATN2), BC011908 (MEST),
 BC068455 (NFE2L3), NM_014840 (NUAKI), AB006755 (PCDH7), NM_014476
 (PDLIM3), BC126199 (PKP-2), BC090862 (RTN1), BC002538 (SERPINB9), BC023312
 (ST3GAL6), BC001201 (ST6GALNAC5), BC126160 or BC065328 (SLC12A8), BC025697
 (TCF21), BC096235 (TGFB2), BC005046 (VTN), and BC005001 (ZC3H12A) as of March
 2008.
  [01241 In a more specific embodiment, said placental stem cells express each of ACTG2,
 ADARBI, AMIGO2, ARTS-1, B4GALT6, BCHE, Cllorf9, CD200, COL4AI, COL4A2,
  CPA4, DMD, DSC3, DSG2, ELOVL2, F2RLI, FLJ10781, GATA6, GPR126, GPRC5B,
  HLA-G, ICAM1, IER3, IGFBP7, ILIA, IL6, IL18, KRT18, KRT8, LIPG, LRAP, MATN2,
  MEST, NFE2L3, NUAK1, PCDH7, PDLIM3, PKP2, RTN1, SERPINB9, ST3GAL6,
  ST6GALNAC5, SLC12A8, TCF21, TGFB2, VTN, and ZC3H12A at a detectably higher
  level than an equivalent number of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, when the
  cells are grown under equivalent conditions.
  [01251 Expression of the above-referenced genes can be assessed by standard techniques.
  For example, probes based on the sequence of the gene(s) can be individually selected and
  constructed by conventional techniques. Expression of the genes can be assessed, e.g., on a
  microarray comprising probes to one or more of the genes, e.g., an Affymctrix GENECHIP@
  Human Genome U133A 2.0 array, or an Affymetrix GENECHIP@ Human Genome U133
  Plus 2.0 (Santa Clara, California). Expression of these genes can be assessed even if the
                                               -43-

      WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
   sequence for a particular GenBank accession number is amended because probes specific for
  the amended sequence can readily be generated using well-known standard techniques.
   [01261 The level of expression of these genes can be used to confirm the identity of a
  population of isolated placental stem cells, to identify an isolated population of cells as
  comprising at least a plurality of placental stem cells, or the like. Isolated populations of cells
  comprising placental stem cells, the identity of which is confirmed, can be clonal, e.g.,
  isolated populations of placental stem cells expanded from a single isolated placental stem
  cell, or a mixed population of stem cells comprising placental stem cells, e.g., a population of
  cells comprising placental stem cells that are expanded from multiple isolated placental stem
  cells, or a population of cells comprising isolated placental stem cells, as described herein,
  and at least one other type of cell.
  [0127] The level of expression of these genes can be used to select populations of isolated
  placental cells. For example, a population of cells, e.g., clonally-expanded cells, may be
  selected if the expression of one or more of the genes listed above is significantly higher in a
  sample from the population of cells than in an equivalent population of mesenchymal stem
  cells. Such selecting can be of a population from a plurality of isolated placental cell
 populations, from a plurality of cell populations, the identity of which is not known, etc.
  [0128] Isolated placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells can be selected on the basis of the
 level of expression of one or more such genes as compared to the level of expression of said
 one or more genes in, e.g., a mesenchymal stem cell control, for example, the level of
 expression of said one or more genes in an equivalent number of bone marrow-derived
 mesenchymal stem cells. In one embodiment, the level of expression of said one or more
 genes in a sample comprising an equivalent number of mesenchymal stem cells is used as a
 control. In another embodiment, the control, for isolated placental cells tested under certain
 conditions, is a numeric value representing the level of expression of said one or more genes
 in mesenchymal stem cells under said conditions.
 [0129] The isolated placental stem cells described herein display the above characteristics
(e.g., combinations of cell surface markers and/or gene expression profiles) in primary
culture, or during proliferation in medium comprising, e.g., DMEM-LG (Gibco), 2% fetal
calf serum (FCS) (Hyclone Laboratories), Ix insulin-transferrin-selenium (ITS), 1x lenolenic
acid-bovine-serum-albumin (LA-BSA), 10-9 M dexamethasone (Sigma), 10 -4M ascorbic acid
2-phosphate (Sigma), epidermal growth factor (EGF) 1Ong/ml (R&D Systems), platelet
derived-growth factor (PDGF-BB) lOng/ml (R&D Systems), and 100U penicillin/1000U
streptomycin.
                                                 -44-

     WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
[0130] In another specific embodiment of said isolated placental cells, e.g., placental stem
cells, or populations of cells comprising the isolated placental cells, said cells or population
have been expanded, for example, passaged at least, about, or no more than, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 times, or proliferated for at least, about, or no
more than, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38 or
40 population doublings. In another specific embodiment of the isolated placental cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, or populations of cells comprising isolated placental cells, that are
disclosed herein, said isolated placental cells are fetal in origin (that is, have the fetal
genotype).
 [01311 In certain embodiments of isolated placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, said
 isolated placental cells do not differentiate during culturing in growth medium, i.e., medium
 formulated to promote proliferation, e.g., during proliferation in growth medium. In another
 specific embodiment, said isolated placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, do not require a
 feeder layer in order to proliferate. In another specific embodiment, said isolated placental
 cells do not differentiate in culture in the absence of a feeder layer, solely because of the lack
 of a feeder cell layer.
  [01321 In another embodiment, placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment
 disclosed herein are isolated placental cells or umbilical cord cells, wherein a plurality of the
  cells are positive for aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), as assessed by an aldehyde
  dehydrogenase activity assay. Such assays are known in the art (see, e.g., Bostian and Betts,
  Biochem. J., 173, 787, (1978)). In a specific embodiment, said ALDH assay uses
  ALDEFLUOR@ (Aldagen, Inc., Ashland, Oregon) as a marker of aldehyde dehydrogenase
  activity. In a specific embodiment, said plurality is between about 3% and about 25% of cells
  in said population of cells. In another embodiment, said placental stem cells show at least
  three-fold, or at least five-fold, higher ALDH activity than a population of bone marrow
  derived mesenchymal stem cells having about the same number of cells and cultured under
  the same conditions.
                                                                                               stem
   [01331 In certain embodiments of any of the populations of cells comprising placental
   cells, as described herein, the placental stem cells in said populations of cells are substantially
   free of cells having a maternal genotype; e.g., at least 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%,
   70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% of the , e.g., placental stem cells in said
                                                                                                    of
   populations have a fetal genotype. In certain other embodiments of any of the populations
   cells comprising the placental stem cells described herein, the populations of cells comprising
   said placental stem cells are substantially free of cells having a maternal genotype; e.g., at
                                                   -45-

     WO 2010/060031                                                               PCT/US2009/065509
  least 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98% or 99% of
  the cells (e.g., , e.g., placental stem cells) in said population have a fetal genotype.
  [0134] In a specific embodiment of any of the above isolated , e.g., placental stem cells or
  isolated cell populations comprising the, e.g., placental stem cells, the karyotype of the , e.g.,
  placental stem cells, or at least about 95% or about 99% of the cells in said population, is
  normal. In another specific embodiment of any of the above placental stem cells or cell
  populations, the placental stem cells, or, e.g., placental stem cells in the population of cells,
  are non-maternal in origin.
  [01351 Isolated placental stem cells, or isolated populations of cells comprising placental
  stem cells, e.g., consisting essentially of placental stem cells, bearing any of the above
  combinations of markers, can be combined in any ratio. Any two or more of the above
 isolated cell populations can be combined to form an isolated cell population. For example,
 an isolated population of cells can comprise a first population of cells defined by one of the
 marker combinations described above, and a second population of cells defined by another of
 the marker combinations described above, wherein said first and second populations are
 combined in a ratio, e.g., of about 1:99, 2:98, 3:97, 4:96, 5:95, 10:90, 20:80, 30:70, 40:60,
 50:50, 60:40, 70:30, 80:20, 90:10, 95:5, 96:4, 97:3, 98:2, or about 99:1. In like fashion, any
 three, four, five or more of the cells or isolated cell populations can be combined.
 [01361 Isolated placental stem cells useful in the methods of treatment disclosed herein can
 be obtained, e.g., by disruption of placental tissue or umbilical cord tissue, with or without
 enzymatic digestion (see Section 5.5.3), or by perfusion (see Section 5.5.4). For example,
populations of isolated placental stem cells can be produced according to a method
 comprising perfusing a mammalian placenta that has been drained of cord blood and perfused
to remove residual blood; perfusing said placenta with a perfusion solution; and collecting
said perfusion solution, wherein said perfusion solution after perfusion comprises a
population of placental cells that comprises isolated placental cells; and isolating a plurality
of said isolated placental cells from said population of cells. In a specific embodiment, the
perfusion solution is passed through both the umbilical vein and umbilical arteries and
collected after it exudes from the placenta. In another specific embodiment, the perfusion
solution is passed through the umbilical vein and collected from the umbilical arteries, or
passed through the umbilical arteries and collected from the umbilical vein
[0137] In various embodiments, the isolated placental stem cells, contained within a
population of cells obtained from perfusion of a placenta, are at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%,
90%, 95%, 99% or at least 99.5% of said population of placental cells. In another specific
                                                   -46-

     WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
embodiment, the isolated placental stem cells collected by perfusion comprise fetal and
maternal cells. In another specific embodiment, the isolated placental cells collected by
perfusion are at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 99% or at least 99.5% fetal cells.
[01381 In another specific embodiment, provided herein is a composition comprising a
population of the isolated placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, as described herein,
collected by perfusion, wherein said composition comprises at least a portion of the perfusion
solution used to collect the isolated placental cells.
 [0139] In certain embodiments, isolated populations of the placental stem cells described
herein can be produced by digesting placental tissue or umbilical cord tissue with a tissue
disrupting enzyme to obtain a population of cells comprising the placental stem cells, and
 isolating, or substantially isolating, a plurality of the placental stem cells from the remainder
 of said placental or umbilical cord cells. The whole, or any part of, the placenta or umbilical
 cord can be digested to obtain the placental stem cells described herein. In specific
 embodiments, for example, said tissue can be a whole placenta, an amniotic membrane,
 chorion, a combination of amnion and chorion, umbilical cord, or a combination of any of the
 foregoing. In other specific embodiment, the tissue-disrupting enzyme is trypsin,
 collagenase, dispase or the like. In various embodiments, the isolated placental stem cells,
 contained within a population of cells obtained from digesting a placenta, are at least 50%,
  60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 99% or at least 99.5% of said population of placental cells.
  [01401 The isolated populations of placental stem cells, or isolated populations of cells
  comprising placental stem cells, described above, can comprise about, at least, or no more
  than, I x 10', 5 x 105 , 1 x 106, 5 x 106, 1 x 10', 5 x 10', 1 x 108, 5 x 108, 1 x 109, 5 x 109, 1 x
   1010, 5 x 1010, 1 x 10" or more of the isolated placental cells. Populations of isolated
  placental cells useful in the methods of treatment described herein comprise at least 50%,
  55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% viable isolated placental
  cells, as determined by, e.g., trypan blue exclusion
                   4.2.3   Growth in Culture
   [01411 The growth of the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, described herein, as for
   any mammalian cell, depends in part upon the particular medium selected for growth. Under
   optimum conditions, placental stem cells typically double in number in 1-5 days. During
   culture, the placental stem cells provided herein adhere to a substrate in culture, e.g. the
   surface of a tissue culture container (e.g., tissue culture dish plastic, fibronectin-coated
   plastic, and the like) and form a monolayer.
                                                    -47-

     WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
 [0142] Populations of isolated placental cells that comprise the placental cells, e.g., placental
 stem cells, when cultured under appropriate conditions, may form embryoid-like bodies, that
 is, three-dimensional clusters of cells grow atop the adherent placental stem cells layer. Cells
 within the embryoid-like bodies express markers associated with very early stem cells, e.g.,
 OCT-4, Nanog, SSEA3 and SSEA4. Cells within the embryoid-like bodies are typically not
 adherent to the culture substrate, as are the placental stem cells described herein, but remain
 attached to the adherent cells during culture. Embryoid-like body cells are dependent upon
the placental stem cells for viability, as embryoid-like bodies do not form in the absence of
the placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. The adherent placental stem cells thus facilitate
the growth of one or more embryoid-like bodies in a population of placental cells that
 comprise the placental stem cells. Without wishing to be bound by theory, the cells of the
embryoid-like bodies are thought to grow on the adherent placental stem cells much as
embryonic stem cells grow on a feeder layer of cells. Mesenchymal stem cells, e.g., bone
marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, do not develop embryoid-like bodies in culture.
          4.3    METHODS OF OBTAINING PLACENTAL STEM CELLS
                 4.3.1    Stem Cell Collection Composition
 [0143] Placental stem cells can be collected and isolated according to the methods provided
herein. Generally, stem cells are obtained from a mammalian placenta or umbilical cord
using a physiologically-acceptable solution, e.g., a stem cell collection composition. A stem
cell collection composition is described in detail in U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
2007/0190042, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0144] The stem cell collection composition can comprise any physiologically-acceptable
solution suitable for the collection and/or culture of stem cells, for example, a saline solution
(e.g., phosphate-buffered saline, Kreb's solution, modified Kreb's solution, Eagle's solution,
0.9% NaCl. etc.), a culture medium (e.g., DMEM, HDMEM, etc.), and the like.
[0145] The stem cell collection composition can comprise one or more components that tend
to preserve placental stem cells, that is, prevent placental stem cells from dying, or delay the
death of the placental stem cells, reduce the number of placental stem cells in a population of
cells that die, or the like, from the time of collection to the time of culturing. Such
components can be, e.g., an apoptosis inhibitor (e.g., a caspase inhibitor or JNK inhibitor); a
vasodilator (e.g., magnesium sulfate, an antihypertensive drug, atrial natriuretic peptide
(ANP), adrenocorticotropin, corticotropin-releasing hormone, sodium nitroprusside,
hydralazine, adenosine triphosphate, adenosine, indomethacin or magnesium sulfate, a
                                                 -48-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
phosphodiesterase inhibitor, etc.); a necrosis inhibitor (e.g., 2-(1H-Indol-3-yl)-3-pentylamino
maleimide, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, or clonazepam); a TNF-a inhibitor; and/or an
oxygen-carrying perfluorocarbon (e.g., perfluorooctyl bromide, perfluorodecyl bromide, etc.).
[01461 The stem cell collection composition can comprise one or more tissue-degrading
enzymes, e.g., a metalloprotease, a serine protease, a neutral protease, an RNase, or a DNase,
or the like. Such enzymes include, but are not limited to, collagenases (e.g., collagenase I, II,
III or IV, a collagenase from Clostridium histolyticum, etc.); dispase, thermolysin, elastase,
trypsin, LIBERASE TM, hyaluronidase, and the like.
[01471 The stem cell collection composition can comprise a bacteriocidally or
bacteriostatically effective amount of an antibiotic. In certain non-limiting embodiments, the
antibiotic is a macrolide (e.g., tobramycin), a cephalosporin (e.g., cephalexin, cephradine,
cefuroxime, cefprozil, cefaclor, cefixime or cefadroxil), a clarithromycin, an erythromycin, a
penicillin (e.g., penicillin V) or a quinolone (e.g., ofloxacin, ciprofloxacin or norfloxacin), a
tetracycline, a streptomycin, etc. In a particular embodiment, the antibiotic is active against
Gram(+) and/or Gram(-) bacteria, e.g., Pseudomonas aeruginosa,Staphylococcus aureus,
and the like.
 [01481 The stem cell collection composition can also comprise one or more of the following
 compounds: adenosine (about 1 mM to about 50 mlM); D-glucose (about 20 mM to about
 100 mM); magnesium ions (about 1 mM to about 50 mM); a macromolecule of molecular
 weight greater than 20,000 daltons, in one embodiment, present in an amount sufficient to
 maintain endothelial integrity and cellular viability (e.g., a synthetic or naturally occurring
 colloid, a polysaccharide such as dextran or a polyethylene glycol present at about 25 g/l to
 about 100 g/l, or about 40 g/l to about 60 g/l); an antioxidant (e.g., butylated hydroxyanisole,
 butylated hydroxytoluene, glutathione, vitamin C or vitamin E present at about 25 pM to
 about 100 pM); a reducing agent (e.g., N-acetylcysteine present at about 0.1 mM to about 5
 mM); an agent that prevents calcium entry into cells (e.g., verapamil present at about 2 pIM to
 about 25 pM); nitroglycerin (e.g., about 0.05 g/L to about 0.2 g/L); an anticoagulant, in one
 embodiment, present in an amount sufficient to help prevent clotting of residual blood (e.g.,
 heparin or hirudin present at a concentration of about 1000 units/ to about 100,000 units/I);
 or an amiloride containing compound (e.g., amiloride, ethyl isopropyl amiloride,
  hexamethylene amiloride, dimethyl amiloride or isobutyl amiloride present at about 1.0 pM
  to about 5 pM).
                                                 -49-

    WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
                4.3.2   Collection and Handling of Placenta and Umbilical Cord
[01491 Generally, a human placenta, with umbilical cord, is recovered shortly after its
expulsion after birth. In a preferred embodiment, the placenta is recovered from a patient
after informed consent and after a complete medical history of the patient is taken and is
associated with the placenta. Preferably, the medical history continues after delivery. Such a
medical history can be used to coordinate subsequent use of the placenta/umbilical cord or
the stem cells harvested therefrom. For example, placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells,
can be used, in light of the medical history, for personalized medicine for the infant
associated with the placenta and umbilical cord, or for parents, siblings or other relatives of
the infant.
[01501 Prior to recovery of placental stem cells, the umbilical cord blood and placental blood
are removed. In certain embodiments, after delivery, the cord blood and placental blood is
recovered. The placenta can be subjected to a conventional cord blood recovery process.
Typically a needle or cannula is used, with the aid of gravity, to exsanguinate the placenta
(see, e.g., Anderson, U.S. Patent No. 5,372,581; Hessel et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,415,665).
The needle or cannula is usually placed in the umbilical vein and the placenta can be gently
massaged to aid in draining cord blood from the placenta. Such cord blood recovery may be
performed commercially, e.g., LifeBank Inc., Cedar Knolls, N.J., ViaCord, Cord Blood
Registry and Cryocell. In certain embodiments, the placenta is gravity drained without
further manipulation so as to minimize tissue disruption during cord blood recovery.
 [01511 Typically, a placenta is transported from the delivery or birthing room to another
location, e.g., a laboratory, for recovery of cord blood and collection of stem cells by, e.g.,
perfusion or tissue dissociation. The placenta is preferably transported in a sterile, thermally
 insulated transport device (maintaining the temperature of the placenta between 20-28'C), for
example, by placing the placenta, with clamped proximal umbilical cord, in a sterile zip-lock
plastic bag, which is then placed in an insulated container. In another embodiment, the
placenta is transported in a cord blood collection kit substantially as described in pending
United States Patent Application No. 2006/0060494, filed September 19, 2005, or in U.S.
Patent No. 7,147,626. Preferably, the placenta is delivered to the laboratory four to twenty
four hours following delivery. In certain embodiments, the proximal umbilical cord is
clamped, preferably within 4-5 cm (centimeter) of the insertion into the placental disc prior to
cord blood recovery. In certain other embodiments, the umbilical cord is clamped distally,
e.g., at or near the end of the umbilical cord away from the placenta. In other embodiments,
                                                -50-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
the umbilical cord is clamped after cord blood recovery but prior to further processing of the
placenta.
[01521 The placenta and umbilical cord, prior to stem cell collection, can be stored under
sterile conditions and at either room temperature or at a temperature of 5 to 250C
(centigrade). The placenta and umbilical cord may be stored for a period of longer than forty
eight hours, and preferably for a period of four to twenty-four hours prior to perfusing the
placenta to remove any residual cord blood. The placenta and umbilical cord are preferably
stored in an anticoagulant solution at a temperature of 5 to 25'C (centigrade). Suitable
anticoagulant solutions are well known in the art. For example, a solution of heparin or
warfarin sodium can be used. In a preferred embodiment, the anticoagulant solution
comprises a solution of heparin (e.g., 1%w/w in 1:1000 solution). The exsanguinated
placenta and umbilical cord are preferably stored for no more than 36 hours before cells, e.g.,
placental stem cells, are collected.
 [01531 The mammalian placenta or a part thereof, or umbilical cord, once collected and
prepared generally as above, can be treated in any art-known manner, e.g., can be perfused or
 disrupted, e.g., digested with one or more tissue-disrupting enzymes, to obtain stem cells.
                 4.3.3   Physical Disruption and Enzymatic Digestion of Tissue
 [01541 In one embodiment, stem cells are collected from a mammalian placenta or umbilical
 cord by physical disruption, e.g., enzymatic digestion, e.g., using the stem cell collection
 composition described in Section 4.3.1, above. For example, the placenta, or a portion
 thereof, or umbilical cord may be, e.g., crushed, sheared, minced, diced, chopped, macerated
 or the like, while in contact with, e.g., a buffer, medium or a stem cell collection composition,
 and the tissue subsequently digested with one or more enzymes. The placenta, or a portion
 thereof, or umbilical cord may also be physically disrupted and digested with one or more
 enzymes, and the resulting material then immersed in, or mixed into, a buffer, medium or a
 stem cell collection composition. Any method of physical disruption can be used, provided
 that the method of disruption leaves a plurality, more preferably a majority, and more
 preferably at least 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 99% of the cells in said organ viable,
 as determined by, e.g., trypan blue exclusion.
  [01551 The placenta or umbilical cord can be dissected into components prior to physical
 disruption and/or enzymatic digestion and stem cell recovery. For example, placental stem
 cells can be obtained from the amniotic membrane, chorion, placental cotyledons, or any
 combination thereof, or from a portion of an umbilical cord. In one embodiment, placental
                                                  -51-

     WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
stem cells are obtained from placental tissue comprising amnion and chorion, amnion
chorion, or umbilical cord. Typically, placental stem cells can be obtained by disruption of a
small block of placental tissue or umbilical cord tissue, e.g., a block of placental tissue or
umbilical cord tissue that is about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90,
 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900 or about 1000 cubic millimeters in volume.
 [01561 A preferred stem cell collection composition comprises one or more tissue-disruptive
enzyme(s). Enzymatic digestion preferably uses a combination of enzymes, e.g., a
combination of trypsin, collagenase, and/or dispase, optionally including hyaluronidase, or a
combination of LIBERASE (Boehringer Mannheim Corp., Indianapolis, Ind.) and
hyaluronidase. Other enzymes that can be used to disrupt placenta tissue include papain,
deoxyribonucleases, serine proteases, such as trypsin, chymotrypsin, or elastase. Serine
proteases may be inhibited by alpha 2 microglobulin in serum and therefore the medium used
 for digestion is usually serum-free. EDTA and DNase are commonly used in enzyme
 digestion procedures to increase the efficiency of cell recovery. The digestate is preferably
diluted so as to avoid trapping stem cells within the viscous digest.
 [01571 Any combination of tissue digestion enzymes can be used. Typical concentrations for
 tissue digestion enzymes include, e.g., 50-200 U/mL for collagenase I and collagenase IV, 1
 10 U/mL for dispase, and 10-100 U/mL for elastase. Proteases can be used in combination,
that is, two or more proteases in the same digestion reaction, or can be used sequentially in
order to liberate placental stem cells. For example, in one embodiment, a placenta, or part
thereof, or umbilical cord, is digested first with an appropriate amount of collagenase I at 2
mg/ml for 30 minutes, followed by digestion with trypsin, 0.25%, for 10 minutes, at 37 0C.
Serine proteases are preferably used consecutively following use of other enzymes.
 [01581 In another embodiment, the tissue can further be disrupted by the addition of a
chelator, e.g., ethylene glycol bis(2-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N'N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA) or
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) to the stem cell collection composition comprising
the stem cells, or to a solution in which the tissue is disrupted and/or digested prior to
isolation of the stem cells with the stem cell collection composition.
 [01591 It will be appreciated that where an entire placenta, or portion of a placenta
comprising both fetal and maternal cells (for example, where the portion of the placenta
comprises the chorion or cotyledons), the placental stem cells collected will comprise a mix
of placental stem cells derived from both fetal and maternal sources. Where a portion of the
placenta that comprises no, or a negligible number of, maternal cells (for example, amnion),
the placental stem cells collected will comprise almost exclusively fetal placental stem cells.
                                                 -52-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
                 4.3.4  Placental Perfusion
[01601 Placental stem cells can also be obtained by perfusion of a mammalian placenta.
Methods of perfusing mammalian placentae to obtain stem cells are disclosed, e.g., in Hariri,
U.S. Patent Nos. 7,045,148 and 7,468,276, and in U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
2007/0190042, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entireties.
[01611 Placental stem cells can be collected by perfusion, e.g., through the placental
vasculature, using, e.g., a stem cell collection composition as a perfusion solution. In one
embodiment, a mammalian placenta is perfused by passage of perfusion solution through
either or both of the umbilical artery and umbilical vein. The flow of perfusion solution
through the placenta may be accomplished using, e.g., gravity flow into the placenta.
Preferably, the perfusion solution is forced through the placenta using a pump, e.g., a
peristaltic pump. The umbilical vein can be, e.g., cannulated with a cannula, e.g., a
TEFLON@ or plastic cannula, that is connected to a sterile connection apparatus, such as
 sterile tubing. The sterile connection apparatus is connected to a perfusion manifold. In
 certain embodiments, the umbilical cord vessels are cannulated proximal to the placenta, e.g.,
 within about 2-3 centimeters of the placenta; in other embodiments, the umbilical cord
 vessels are cannulated distal to the placenta, e.g., within about 2-3 centimeters of the end of
 the umbilical cord furthest from the placenta.
 101621 In preparation for perfusion, the placenta is preferably oriented (e.g., suspended) in
 such a manner that the umbilical artery and umbilical vein are located at the highest point of
 the placenta. The placenta can be perfused by passage of a perfusion fluid, e.g., the stem cell
 collection composition provided herein, through the placental vasculature, or through the
 placental vasculature and surrounding tissue. In one embodiment, the umbilical artery and
 the umbilical vein are connected simultaneously to a pipette that is connected via a flexible
 connector to a reservoir of the perfusion solution. The perfusion solution is passed into the
 umbilical vein and artery. The perfusion solution exudes from and/or passes through the
 walls of the blood vessels into the surrounding tissues of the placenta, and is collected in a
  suitable open vessel from the surface of the placenta that was attached to the uterus of the
 mother during gestation. The perfusion solution may also be introduced through the
  umbilical cord opening and allowed to flow or percolate out of openings in the wall of the
  placenta which interfaced with the maternal uterine wall. In another embodiment, the
                                                 -53-

      WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
  perfusion solution is passed through the umbilical veins and collected from the umbilical
  artery, or is passed through the umbilical artery and collected from the umbilical veins.
  [0163] In one embodiment, the proximal umbilical cord is clamped during perfusion, and
  more preferably, is clamped within 4-5 cm (centimeter) of the cord's insertion into the
  placental disc.
  [01641 The first collection of perfusion fluid from a mammalian placenta during the
  exsanguination process is generally colored with residual red blood cells of the cord blood
  and/or placental blood. The perfusion fluid becomes more colorless as perfusion proceeds
  and the residual cord blood cells are washed out of the placenta. Generally from 30 to 100 ml
  (milliliter) of perfusion fluid is adequate to initially exsanguinate the placenta, but more or
  less perfusion fluid may be used depending on the observed results.
  [01651 The volume of perfusion liquid used to collect placental stem cells, may vary
 depending upon the number of stem cells to be collected, the size of the placenta, the number
 of collections to be made from a single placenta, etc. In various embodiments, the volume of
 perfusion liquid may be from 50 mL to 5000 mL, 50 mL to 4000 mL, 50 mL to 3000 mL,
  100 mL to 2000 mL, 250 mL to 2000 mL, 500 mL to 2000 mL, or 750 mL to 2000 mL.
 Typically, the placenta is perfused with 700-800 mL of perfusion liquid following
 exsanguination.
 [01661 The placenta can be perfused a plurality of times over the course of several hours or
 several days. Where the placenta is to be perfused a plurality of times, it may be maintained
 or cultured under aseptic conditions in a container or other suitable vessel, and perfused with
 the stem cell collection composition, or a standard perfusion solution (e.g., a normal saline
 solution such as phosphate buffered saline ("PBS")) with or without an anticoagulant (e.g.,
 heparin, warfarin sodium, coumarin, bishydroxycoumarin), and/or with or without an
antimicrobial agent (e.g.,    P-mercaptoethanol (0.1    mM); antibiotics such as streptomycin (e.g.,
at 40-100 tg/ml), penicillin (e.g., at 40U/ml), amphotericin B (e.g., at 0.5 ptg/ml). In one
embodiment, an isolated placenta is maintained or cultured for a period of time without
collecting the perfusate, such that the placenta is maintained or cultured for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 , 2 0, 21, 2 2, 23, or 24 hours, or 2 or 3 or more days
before perfusion and collection of perfusate. The perfused placenta can be maintained for
one or more additional time(s), e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 or more hours, and perfused a second time with, e.g., 700-800 mL
perfusion fluid. The placenta can be perfused 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or more times, for example, once
every 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 hours. In a preferred embodiment, perfusion of the placenta and
                                                  -54-

     WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
collection of perfusion solution, e.g., stem cell collection composition, is repeated until the
number of recovered nucleated cells falls below 100 cells/mi. The perfusates at different
time points can be further processed individually to recover time-dependent populations of
cells, e.g., stem cells. Perfusates from different time points can also be pooled.
[01671 Without wishing to be bound by any theory, after exsanguination and a sufficient time
of perfusion of the placenta, stem cells are believed to migrate into the exsanguinated and
perfused microcirculation of the placenta and umbilical cord where they are collected,
preferably by washing into a collecting vessel by perfusion. Perfusing the isolated placenta
not only serves to remove residual cord blood but also provide the placenta with the
 appropriate nutrients, including oxygen. The placenta may be cultivated and perfused with a
 similar solution which was used to remove the residual cord blood cells, preferably, without
 the addition of anticoagulant agents.
 [01681 Perfusion as described herein results in the collection of significantly more stem cells
 than the number obtainable from a mammalian placenta not perfused with said solution, and
 not otherwise treated to obtain stem cells (e.g., by tissue disruption, e.g., enzymatic
 digestion). In this context, "significantly more" means at least 10% more. Perfusion yields
 significantly more stem cells than, e.g., the number of stem cells obtainable from culture
 medium in which a placenta, or portion thereof, has been cultured.
  [01691 Stem cells can be isolated from placenta by perfusion with a solution comprising one
  or more proteases or other tissue-disruptive enzymes. In a specific embodiment, a placenta or
  portion thereof (e.g., amniotic membrane, amnion and chorion, placental lobule or cotyledon,
                                                                0
  or combination of any of the foregoing) is brought to 25-37 C, and is incubated with one or
  more tissue-disruptive enzymes in 200 mL of a culture medium for 30 minutes. Cells from
  the perfusate are collected, brought to 4'C, and washed with a cold inhibitor mix comprising
  5 mM EDTA, 2 mM dithiothreitol and 2 mM beta-mercaptoethanol. The stem cells are
  washed after several minutes with a cold (e.g., 4'C) stem cell collection composition
  described elsewhere herein.
   [01701 It will be appreciated that perfusion using the pan method, that is, whereby perfusate
   is collected after it has exuded from the maternal side of the placenta, results in a mix of fetal
   and maternal cells. As a result, the cells collected by this method comprise a mixed
   population of placental stem cells of both fetal and maternal origin. In contrast, perfusion
   solely through the placental vasculature, whereby perfusion fluid is passed through one or
   two placental vessels and is collected solely through the remaining vessel(s), results in the
   collection of a population of placental stem cells almost exclusively of fetal origin.
                                                   -55-

       WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
                    4.3.5  Isolation, Sorting, and Characterization of Placental Stem Cells
   [0171] Stem cells from mammalian placenta or umbilical cord, whether obtained by
  perfusion or enyzmatic digestion, can initially be purified from (i.e., be isolated from) other
  cells by Ficoll gradient centrifugation. Such centrifugation can follow any standard protocol
  for centrifugation speed, etc. In one embodiment, for example, cells collected from the
  placenta or umbilical cord are recovered from perfusate by centrifugation at 5000 x g for 15
  minutes at room temperature, which separates cells from, e.g., contaminating debris and
 platelets. In another embodiment, placental perfusate is concentrated to about 200 ml, gently
  layered over Ficoll, and centrifuged at about 1100 x g for 20 minutes at 22'C, and the low
  density interface layer of cells is collected for further processing.
  [01721 Cell pellets can be resuspended in fresh stem cell collection composition, or a medium
 suitable for stem cell maintenance, e.g., IMDM serum-free medium containing 2U/ml heparin
 and 2mM EDTA (GibcoBRL, NY). The total mononuclear cell fraction can be isolated, e.g.,
 using Lymphoprep (Nycomed Pharma, Oslo, Norway) according to the manufacturer's
 recommended procedure.
 [0173] As used herein, "isolating" placental stem cells, means to remove at least 20%, 30%,
 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% of the cells with which the stem cells are
 normally associated in the intact mammalian placenta or umbilical cord. A stem cell from an
organ is "isolated" when it is present in a population of cells that comprises fewer than 50%
of the cells with which the stem cell is normally associated in the intact organ.
 [0174] Placental stem cells obtained by perfusion or digestion can, for example, be further, or
initially, isolated by differential trypsinization using, e.g., a solution of 0.05% trypsin with
0.2% EDTA (Sigma, St. Louis MO). Differential trypsinization is possible because placental
stem cells and umbilical cord stem cells typically detach from plastic surfaces within about
five minutes, whereas other adherent populations typically require more than 20-30 minutes
incubation. The detached cells can be harvested following trypsinization and trypsin
neutralization, using, e.g., Trypsin Neutralizing Solution (TNS, Cambrex). In one
embodiment of isolation of adherent cells, aliquots of, for example, about 5-10 x 106 cells are
placed in each of several T-75 flasks, preferably fibronectin-coated T75 flasks. In such an
embodiment, the cells can be cultured with commercially available Mesenchymal Stem Cell
Growth Medium (MSCGM) (Cambrex), and placed in a tissue culture incubator (37 0 C, 5%
C0   2 ). After 10 to 15 days, non-adherent cells are removed from the flasks by washing with
PBS. The PBS is then replaced by MSCGM. Flasks are preferably examined daily for the
                                                 -56-

     WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
presence of various adherent cell types and in particular, for identification and expansion of
clusters of fibroblastoid cells.
{0175] The number and type of cells collected from a mammalian placenta can be monitored,
for example, by measuring changes in morphology and cell surface markers using standard
cell detection techniques such as flow cytometry, cell sorting, immunocytochemistry (e.g.,
staining with tissue specific or cell-marker specific antibodies) fluorescence activated cell
sorting faces) , magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS), by examination of the morphology
of cells using light or confocal microscopy, and/or by measuring changes in gene expression
using techniques well known in the art, such as PCR and gene expression profiling. These
 techniques can be used, too, to identify cells that are positive for one or more particular
 markers. For example, using antibodies to CD34, one can determine, using the techniques
 above, whether a cell comprises a detectable amount of CD34; if so, the cell is CD34 .
 Likewise, if a cell produces enough OCT-4 RNA to be detectable by RT-PCR, or
 significantly more OCT-4 RNA than an adult cell, the cell is OCT-4' Antibodies to cell
 surface markers (e.g., CD markers such as CD34) and the sequence of stem cell-specific
  genes, such as OCT-4, are well-known in the art.
  [01761 Placental stem cells, e.g., cells that have been isolated by Ficoll separation,
  differential adherence, or a combination of both, may be sorted using a fluorescence activated
  cell sorter faces) . Fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) is a well-known method for
  separating particles, including cells, based on the fluorescent properties of the particles
  (Kamarch, 1987, Methods Enzymol, 151:150-165). Laser excitation of fluorescent moieties
  in the individual particles results in a small electrical charge allowing electromagnetic
                                                                                         cell surface
  separation of positive and negative particles from a mixture. In one embodiment,
   marker-specific antibodies or ligands are labeled with distinct fluorescent labels. Cells are
                                                                                                   to
   processed through the cell sorter, allowing separation of cells based on their ability to bind
   the antibodies used. FACS sorted particles may be directly deposited into individual wells of
   96-well or 384-well plates to facilitate separation and cloning.
                                                                                    sorted on the
    [0177] In one sorting scheme, stem cells from placenta or umbilical cord are
   basis of expression of the markers CD34, CD38, CD44, CD45, CD73, CD105, and/or HLA
                                                                                         CD 105
   G; i.e., the absence of CD34, CD38 and CD45, and the presence of CD44, CD73,
    and/or HLA-G. This can be accomplished in connection with procedures to select stem cells
    on the basis of their adherence properties in culture. For example, an adherence selection
    stem can be accomplished before or after sorting on the basis of marker expression. In one
    embodiment, for example, cells are sorted first on the basis of their expression of CD34;
                                                    -57-

     WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
  CD34- cells are retained, and cells that are, e.g., CD200HLA-G* are separated from all other
  CD34~ cells. In another embodiment, cells from placenta are based on their expression of
  markers CD200 and/or HLA-G; for example, cells displaying either of these markers are
  isolated for further use. Cells that express, e.g., CD200 and/or HLA-G can, in a specific
  embodiment, be further sorted based on their expression of CD73 and/or CD 105, or epitopes
 recognized by antibodies SH2, SH3 or SH4, or lack of expression of CD34, CD38 or CD45.
 For example, in one embodiment, placental cells and/or umbilical cord cells are sorted by
 expression, or lack thereof, of CD200, HLA-G, CD73, CD105, CD34, CD38 and CD45, and
 cells that are CD200, HLA-G*, CD73, CD105t, CD34-, CD38- and CD45- are isolated
 from other cells for further use.
  [01781 In another embodiment, magnetic beads can be used to separate cells. The cells may
 be sorted using a magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) technique, a method for separating
 particles based on their ability to bind magnetic beads (0.5-100 pm diameter). A variety of
 useful modifications can be performed on the magnetic microspheres, including covalent
 addition of antibody that specifically recognizes a particular cell surface molecule or hapten.
 The beads are then mixed with the cells to allow binding. Cells are then passed through a
 magnetic field to separate out cells having the specific cell surface marker. In one
 embodiment, these cells can then isolated and re-mixed with magnetic beads coupled to an
 antibody against additional cell surface markers. The cells are again passed through a
 magnetic field, isolating cells that bound both the antibodies. Such cells can then be diluted
 into separate dishes, such as microtiter dishes for clonal isolation.
 [01791 Placental stem cells can also be characterized and/or sorted based on cell morphology
 and growth characteristics. For example, placental stem cells can be characterized as having,
 and/or selected on the basis of, e.g., a fibroblastoid appearance in culture. Placental stem
 cells can also be characterized as having, and/or be selected, on the basis of their ability to
form embryoid-like bodies. In one embodiment, for example, placental cells or umbilical
cord cells that are fibroblastoid in shape, express CD73 and CD105, and produce one or more
embryoid-like bodies in culture are isolated from other placental cells or umbilical cord cells.
In another embodiment, OCT-4* placental cells that produce one or more embryoid-like
bodies in culture are isolated from other placental cells.
[01801 Placental stem cells can be assessed for viability, proliferation potential, and longevity
using standard techniques known in the art, such as trypan blue exclusion assay, fluorescein
diacetate uptake assay, propidium iodide uptake assay (to assess viability); and thymidine
uptake assay, MTT cell proliferation assay (to assess proliferation). Longevity may be
                                                 -58-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
determined by methods well known in the art, such as by determining the maximum number
of population doubling in an extended culture.
[01811 Placental stem cells can also be separated from other cells using other techniques
known in the art, e.g., selective growth of desired cells (positive selection), selective
destruction of unwanted cells (negative selection); separation based upon differential cell
agglutinability in the mixed population as, for example, with soybean agglutinin; freeze-thaw
procedures; filtration; conventional and zonal centrifugation; centrifugal elutriation (counter
streaming centrifugation); unit gravity separation; countercurrent distribution;
electrophoresis; and the like.
         4.4    CULTURE OF PLACENTAL STEM CELLS
                4.4.1    Culture Media
 [01821 Isolated placental stem cells, or populations of placental stem cells, or placental tissue
 or umbilical cord tissue from which stem cells grow out, can be used to initiate, or seed, cell
 cultures. Cells are generally transferred to sterile tissue culture vessels either uncoated or
 coated with extracellular matrix or ligands such as laminin, collagen (e.g., native or
 denatured), gelatin, fibronectin, ornithine, vitronectin, and extracellular membrane protein
 (e.g., MATRIGEL (BD Discovery Labware, Bedford, Mass.)).
 [01831 Placental stem cells can be cultured in any medium, and under any conditions,
 recognized in the art as acceptable for the culture of stem cells. Preferably, the culture
 medium comprises serum. Placental stem cells can be cultured in, for example, DMEM-LG
 (Dulbecco's Modified Essential Medium, low glucose)/MCDB 201 (chick fibroblast basal
 medium) containing ITS (insulin-transferrin-selcnium), LA+BSA (linoleic acid-bovine serum
  albumin), dextrose, L-ascorbic acid, PDGF, EGF, IGF-1, and penicillin/streptomycin;
  DMEM-HG (high glucose) comprising 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS); DMEM-HG
  comprising 15% FBS; IMDM (Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium) comprising 10% FBS,
  10% horse serum, and hydrocortisone; M199 comprising 10% FBS, EGF, and heparin; a
                                                                           m
  MEM (minimal essential medium) comprising 10% FBS, GlutaMAX and gentamicin;
  DMEM comprising 10% FBS, GlutaMAX7 and gentamicin, etc. A preferred medium is
  DMEM-LG/MCDB-201 comprising 2% FBS, ITS, LA+BSA, dextrose, L-ascorbic acid,
  PDGF, EGF, and penicillin/streptomycin.
  [01841 Other media in that can be used to culture placental stem cells include DMEM (high
  or low glucose), Eagle's basal medium, Ham's F10 medium (F10), Ham's F-12 medium (F12),
  Iscove's modified Dulbecco's medium, Mesenchymal Stem Cell Growth Medium (MSCGM),
                                                  -59-

      WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
  Liebovitz's L-15 medium, MCDB, DMIEM/F12, RPMI 1640, advanced DMEM (Gibco),
  DMEM/MCDB201 (Sigma), and CELL-GRO FREE.
  [01851 The culture medium can be supplemented with one or more components including,
  for example, serum (e.g., fetal bovine serum (FBS), preferably about 2-15% (v/v); equine
  (horse) serum (ES); human serum (HS)); beta-mercaptoethanol (BME), preferably about
  0.001% (v/v); one or more growth factors, for example, platelet-derived growth factor
  (PDGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), insulin-like
  growth factor-I (IGF- 1), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), vascular endothelial growth factor
  (VEGF), and erythropoietin (EPO); amino acids, including L-valine; and one or more
  antibiotic and/or antimycotic agents to control microbial contamination, such as, for example,
 penicillin G, streptomycin sulfate, amphotericin B, gentamicin, and nystatin, either alone or
  in combination.
                 4.4.2   Expansion and Proliferation of Placental Stem Cells
  [01861 Once a placental stem cell, or isolated population of stem cells (e.g., a stem cell or
 population of stem cells separated from at least 50% of the placental cells with which the
 stem cell or population of stem cells is normally associated in vivo) is isolated, the stem cell
 or population of stem cells can be proliferated and expanded in vitro. For example, a
 population of placental stem cells can be cultured in tissue culture containers, e.g., dishes,
 flasks, multiwell plates, or the like, for a sufficient time for the stem cells to proliferate to 70
 90% confluence, that is, until the stem cells and their progeny occupy 70-90% of the
 culturing surface area of the tissue culture container.
 [01871 Placental stem cells can be seeded in culture vessels at a density that allows cell
growth. For example, the cells may be seeded at low density (e.g., about 1,000 to about
5,000 cells/cm 2) to high density (e.g., about 50,000 or more cells/cm 2 ). In a preferred
embodiment, the cells are cultured at about 0 to about 5 percent by volume CO 2 in air. In
some preferred embodiments, the cells are cultured at about 2 to about 25 percent 02 in air,
preferably about 5 to about 20 percent 02 in air. The cells preferably are cultured at about
25 0C to about 40*C, preferably 37 0C. The cells are preferably cultured in an incubator. The
culture medium can be static or agitated, for example, using a bioreactor. Placental stem cells
preferably are grown under low oxidative stress (e.g., with addition of glutathione, ascorbic
acid, catalase, tocopherol, N-acetylcysteinc, or the like).
[01881 Once 70%-90% confluence is obtained, the cells may be passaged. For example, the
cells can be enzymatically treated, e.g., trypsinized, using techniques well-known in the art,
                                                 -60-

     WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
to separate them from the tissue culture surface. After removing the cells by pipetting and
counting the cells, about 10,000-100,000 stem cells per square centimeter, preferably about
50,000 stem cells per square centimeter, are passaged to a new culture container containing
fresh culture medium. Typically, the new medium is the same type of medium from which
the stem cells were removed. Provided herein are populations of placental stem cells that
have been passaged at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, or 20 times, or more,
and combinations of the same.
                   4.4.3   Placental Stem Cell Populations
 [01891 The methods of treatment provided herein, in certain embodiments, use populations of
 placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. Placental stem cell populations can be isolated
 directly from one or more placentas; that is, the placental stem cell population can be a
 population of placental cells or umbilical cord cells, comprising placental stem cells or
 umbilical cord cells, obtained from, or contained within, perfusate, or obtained from, or
 contained within, digestate (that is, the collection of cells obtained by enzymatic digestion of
 a placenta or part thereof, or from an umbilical cord). Isolated placental stem cells can also
 be cultured and expanded to produce placental stem cell populations. Populations of
 placental cells or umbilical cord cells comprising placental stem cells can also be cultured
 and expanded to produce placental stem cell populations.
  [01901 In various embodiments, at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
 95%, or 99% of the cells in an isolated placental cell population or umbilical cord cell
 population are placental stem cells. That is, a placental cell population or umbilical cord cell
 population comprising placental stem cells can comprise, e.g., as much as 1%, 5%, 10%,
  20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% non-stem cells.
  [01911 Provided herein are methods of producing isolated placental stem cell populations by,
  e.g., selecting placental stem cells or umbilical cord stem cells, whether derived from
  enzymatic digestion or perfusion, that express particular markers and/or particular culture or
  morphological characteristics. In one embodiment, for example, a cell population can be
  produced by a method comprising selecting placental or umbilical cord cells that (a) adhere to
  a tissue culture plastic substrate, (b) are CD10*, CD34~, and CD105+; and isolating said cells
   from other cells to form a cell population. In another embodiment, for example, a cell
   population can be produced by a method comprising selecting placental or umbilical cord
   cells that (a) adhere to a substrate, and (b) express CD200 and HLA-G; and isolating said
   cells from other cells to form a cell population. In another embodiment, the method of
                                                   -61-

    WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
producing a cell population comprises selecting placental cells or umbilical cord cells that (a)
adhere to a substrate, and (b) express CD73, CD105, and CD200; and isolating said cells
from other cells to form a cell population. In another embodiment, the method of producing a
cell population comprises selecting placental cells or umbilical cord cells that (a) adhere to a
substrate and (b) express CD200 and OCT-4; and isolating said cells from other cells to form
a cell population. In another embodiment, the method of producing a cell population
comprises selecting placental cells or umbilical cord cells that (a) adhere to a substrate, (b)
express CD73 and CD 105, and (c) facilitate the formation of one or more embryoid-like
bodies in a population of placental cells comprising said stem cell when said population is
cultured under conditions that allow for the formation of an embryoid-like body; and
isolating said cells from other cells to form a cell population. In another embodiment, the
method of producing a cell population comprises selecting placental cells or umbilical cord
cells that (a) adhere to a substrate, and (b) express CD73, CD 105 and HLA-G; and isolating
said cells from other cells to form a cell population. In another embodiment, the method of
producing a cell population comprises selecting placental cells that (a) adhere to a substrate,
(b) express OCT-4, and (c) facilitate the formation of one or more embryoid-like bodies in a
population of placental cells comprising said stem cell when said population is cultured under
 conditions that allow for the formation of an embryoid-like body; and isolating said cells
 from other cells to form a cell population. In any of the above embodiments, the method can
 additionally comprise selecting placental cells or umbilical cord cells that express ABC-p (a
 placenta-specific ABC transporter protein; see, e.g., Allikmets et al., CancerRes.
 58(23):5337-9 (1998)).
 [01921 In the above embodiments, the substrate can be any surface on which culture and/or
 selection of cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can be accomplished. Typically, the substrate is
 plastic, e.g., tissue culture dish or multiwell plate plastic. Tissue culture plastic can be coated
 with a biomolecule, e.g., laminin or fibronectin.
 [01931 Cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can be selected for a placental stem cell population by
 any means known in the art of cell selection. For example, cells can be selected using an
 antibody or antibodies to one or more cell surface markers, for example, in flow cytometry or
 FACS. Selection can be accomplished using antibodies in conjunction with magnetic beads.
 Antibodies that arc specific for certain stem cell-related markers are known in the art. For
 example, antibodies to OCT-4 (Abcam, Cambridge, MA), CD200 (Abcam), HLA-G
 (Abcam), CD73 (BD Biosciences Pharmingen, San Diego, CA), CD105 (Abcam; BioDesign
 International, Saco, ME), etc. Antibodies to other markers are also available commercially,
                                                  -62-

    WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
e.g., CD34, CD38 and CD45 are available from, e.g., StemCell Technologies or BioDesign
International.
[01941 Isolated placental stem cell populations can be.combined with one or more
populations of non-stem cells or non-placental cells. For example, an isolated population of
placental stem cells can be combined with blood (e.g., placental blood or umbilical cord
blood), blood-derived stem cells (e.g., stem cells derived from placental blood or umbilical
cord blood), populations of blood-derived nucleated cells, bone marrow-derived
mesenchymal cells, bone-derived stem cell populations, crude bone marrow, adult (somatic)
stem cells, populations of stem cells contained within tissue, cultured stem cells, populations
of fully-differentiated cells (e.g., chondrocytes, fibroblasts, amniotic cells, osteoblasts,
muscle cells, cardiac cells, etc.) and the like. Cells in an isolated placental cell population
can be combined with cells of another type in ratios of about 100,000,000:1, 50,000,000:1,
20,000,000:1, 10,000,000:1, 5,000,000:1, 2,000,000:1, 1,000,000:1, 500,000:1, 200,000:1,
 100,000:1, 50,000:1, 20,000:1, 10,000:1, 5,000:1, 2,000:1, 1,000:1, 500:1, 200:1, 100:1, 50:1,
 20:1, 10:1, 5:1, 2:1, 1:1; 1:2; 1:5; 1:10; 1:100; 1:200; 1:500; 1:1,000; 1:2,000; 1:5,000;
 1:10,000; 1:20,000; 1:50,000; 1:100,000; 1:500,000; 1:1,000,000; 1:2,000,000; 1:5,000,000;
 1:10,000,000; 1:20,000,000; 1:50,000,000; or about 1:100,000,000, comparing numbers of
 total nucleated cells in each population. Cells in an isolated placental cell population can be
 combined with cells of a plurality of cell types, as well.
 [01951 In one embodiment, an isolated population of placental stem cells is combined with
 hematopoietic stem cells. Such hematopoietic stem cells can be, for example, contained
 within unprocessed placental, umbilical cord blood or peripheral blood; in total nucleated
 cells from placental blood, umbilical cord blood or peripheral blood; in an isolated population
 of CD34* cells from blood, e.g., umbilical cord blood or peripheral blood; in unprocessed
 bone marrow; in total nucleated cells from bone marrow; in an isolated population of CD34*
 cells from bone marrow, or the like.
          4.5    PRESERVATION OF PLACENTAL STEM CELLS
 [01961 Placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, can be preserved, that is, placed under
 conditions that allow for long-term storage, or conditions that inhibit cell death by, e.g.,
 apoptosis or necrosis.
 [01971 Cells can be preserved using, e.g., a composition comprising an apoptosis inhibitor,
 necrosis inhibitor and/or an oxygen-carrying perfluorocarbon, as described in U.S. published
 patent application US 2007/0190042. In one embodiment, a population of placental stem
                                                 -63-

   WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
cells is preserved by contacting the population with a stem cell collection composition
comprising an inhibitor of apoptosis and an oxygen-carrying perfluorocarbon, wherein said
inhibitor of apoptosis is present in an amount and for a time sufficient to reduce or prevent
apoptosis in the population of stem cells, as compared to a population of stem cells not
contacted with the inhibitor of apoptosis. In a specific embodiment, said inhibitor of
apoptosis is a caspase inhibitor. In another specific embodiment, said inhibitor of apoptosis
is a JNK inhibitor. In a more specific embodiment, said JNK inhibitor does not modulate
differentiation or proliferation of the placental stem cells. In another embodiment, said stem
cell collection composition comprises said inhibitor of apoptosis and said oxygen-carrying
perfluorocarbon in separate phases. In another embodiment, said stem cell collection
composition comprises said inhibitor of apoptosis and said oxygen-carrying perfluorocarbon
in an emulsion. In another embodiment, the stem cell collection composition additionally
comprises an emulsifier, e.g., lecithin. In another embodiment, said apoptosis inhibitor and
said perfluorocarbon are between about 00 C and about 25'C at the time of contacting the stem
cells. In another more specific embodiment, said apoptosis inhibitor and said
perfluorocarbon are between about 2'C and 100C, or between about 2'C and about 50C, at the
time of contacting the stem cells. In another more specific embodiment, said contacting is
performed during transport of said population of stem cells. In another more specific
embodiment, said contacting is performed during freezing and thawing of the population of
placental stem cells.
[01981 In another embodiment, populations of placental stem cells can be preserved by a
method comprising contacting the population with an inhibitor of apoptosis and an organ
preserving compound, wherein said inhibitor of apoptosis is present in an amount and for a
time sufficient to reduce or prevent apoptosis in the population of cells, e.g., placental stem
cells, as compared to a population of cells not contacted with the inhibitor of apoptosis. In a
specific embodiment, the organ-preserving compound is UW solution (described in U.S.
Patent No. 4,798,824; also known as ViaSpan; see also Southard et al., Transplantation
49(2):251-257 (1990)) or a solution described in Stem et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,552,267. In
another embodiment, said organ-preserving compound is hydroxyethyl starch, lactobionic
acid, raffinose, or a combination thereof. In another embodiment, the stem cell collection
composition additionally comprises an oxygen-carrying perfluorocarbon, either in two phases
or as an emulsion.
[01991 In another embodiment of the method, placental stem cells are contacted with a stem
cell collection composition comprising an apoptosis inhibitor and oxygen-carrying
                                                -64-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
perfluorocarbon, organ-preserving compound, or combination thereof, during perfusion. In
another embodiment, the cells are contacted during a process of tissue disruption, e.g.,
enzymatic digestion. In another embodiment, placental stem cells are contacted with said
stem cell collection compound after collection by perfusion, or after collection by tissue
disruption, e.g., enzymatic digestion.
[02001 Typically, during placental or umbilical cord cell collection, enrichment and isolation,
it is preferable to minimize or eliminate cell stress due to hypoxia and mechanical stress. In
another embodiment of the method, therefore, placental stem cells are exposed to a hypoxic
condition during collection, enrichment or isolation for less than six hours during said
preservation, wherein a hypoxic condition is a concentration of oxygen that is less than
normal blood oxygen concentration. In a more specific embodiment, the placental stem cells
are exposed to said hypoxic condition for less than two hours during said preservation. In
 another more specific embodiment, the placental stem cells are exposed to said hypoxic
 condition for less than one hour, or less than thirty minutes, or is not exposed to a hypoxic
 condition, during collection, enrichment or isolation. In another specific embodiment, the
 placental stem cells are not exposed to shear stress during collection, enrichment or isolation.
 102011 The placental stem cells described herein can be cryopreserved, e.g., in
 cryopreservation medium in small containers, e.g., ampoules. Suitable cryopreservation
 medium includes, but is not limited to, culture medium including, e.g., growth medium, or
 cell freezing medium, for example commercially available cell freezing medium, e.g., media
 designated C2695, C2639 or C6039 (Sigma). Cryopreservation medium preferably
 comprises DMSO (dimethylsulfoxide), at a concentration of, e.g., about 10% (v/v).
 Cryopreservation medium may comprise additional agents, for example, Plasmalyte,
                                                                                          0
 methylcellulose and/or glycerol. Placental stem cells are preferably cooled at about 1 C/min
 during cryopreservation. A preferred cryopreservation temperature is about -80'C to about
  180 0C, preferably about -125 0 C to about -140'C. Cryopreserved cells can be transferred to
  liquid nitrogen prior to thawing for use. In some embodiments, for example, once the
  ampoules have reached about -90'C, they are transferred to a liquid nitrogen storage area.
  Cryopreserved cells preferably are thawed at a temperature of about 25*C to about 40'C,
  preferably to a temperature of about 370C.
                                                 -65-

      WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
           4.6     COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING PLACENTAL STEM CELLS
   [02021 The methods provided herein can, for example, use compositions comprising
  placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells. Non-limiting, representative examples of such
   compositions are provided herein.
                           4.6.1.1 Cryopreserved Cells
   [0203] Placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, and populations of placental stem cells, for
  example, cryopreserved for later use. Methods for cryopreservation of cells, such as stem
  cells, are well known in the art. Placental stem cell populations can be prepared in a form
  that is easily administrable to an individual. For example, placental stem cells can be
  contained within a container that is suitable for medical use. Such a container can be, for
  example, a sterile plastic bag, flask, jar, or other container from which the placental stem
  cells population can be easily dispensed. For example, the container can be a blood bag or
  other plastic, medically-acceptable bag suitable for the intravenous administration of a liquid
  to a recipient. The container is preferably one that allows for cryopreservation of the
  combined cell population.
  [0204] Cryopreserved placental stem cells populations can comprise placental cells or
 umbilical cord cells derived from a single donor, or from multiple donors. The placental
 stem cells population can be completely HLA-matched to an intended recipient, or partially
 or completely HLA-mismatched.
  [02051 Thus, in one embodiment, provided herein is a composition comprising a population
 of placental stem cells in a container. In a specific embodiment, the cell population is
 cryopreserved. In another specific embodiment, the container is a bag, flask, or jar. In more
 specific embodiment, said bag is a sterile plastic bag. In a more specific embodiment, said
 bag is suitable for, allows or facilitates intravenous administration of said placental cell
 population. The bag can comprise multiple lumens or compartments that are interconnected
 to allow mixing of the placental stem cells and one or more other solutions, e.g., a drug, prior
to, or during, administration. In another specific embodiment, the composition comprises one
or more compounds that facilitate cryopreservation of the cell population. In another specific
embodiment, said placental cell population is contained within a physiologically-acceptable
aqueous solution. In a more specific embodiment, said physiologically-acceptable aqueous
solution is a 0.9% NaCl solution. In another specific embodiment, said placental cell
population comprises placental stem cells that are HLA-matched to a recipient of said cell
population. In another specific embodiment, said cell population comprises placental stem
                                                  -66-

    WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
cells that are at least partially HLA-mismatched to a recipient. In another specific
embodiment, said placental stem cells are derived from a plurality of donors.
                          4.6.1.2 Pharmaceutical Compositions
[02061 Populations of isolated placental stem cells, or populations of cells comprising the
isolated placental stem cells, can be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions for use in
vivo, e.g., in the methods of treatment provided herein. Such pharmaceutical compositions
comprise a population of isolated placental stem cells, or a population of cells comprising
isolated placental stem cells, in a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier, e.g., a saline solution
 or other accepted physiologically-acceptable solution for in vivo administration.
 Pharmaceutical compositions comprising the isolated placental stem cells described herein
 can comprise any, or any combination, of the isolated placental stem cells populations, or
 isolated placental stem cells, described elsewhere herein. The pharmaceutical compositions
 can comprise fetal, maternal, or both fetal and maternal isolated cells. The pharmaceutical
 compositions provided herein can further comprise isolated placental stem cells obtained
 from a single individual, umbilical cord or placenta, or from a plurality of individuals,
  umbilical cords or placentae. Any of the placental stem cells, described elsewhere herein,
  can be formulated into pharmaceutical composition, as described below.
                                                                                           of
  [02071 The pharmaceutical compositions provided herein can comprise any number
  isolated placental stem cells. For example, a single unit dose of isolated placental stem cells
  can comprise, in various embodiments, about, at least, or no more than 1 x 105, 5 x 105, 1 x
                                                                                            1011 or
  106, 5 x 106, 1 X 107, 5 x 107, 1 x 108,5x18, 1 x 109, 5 x 109, 1 x 10, 5 x 1010, 1 x
  more isolated cells.
                                                                                               that
  [02081 The pharmaceutical compositions provided herein comprise populations of cells
                                                                                            are
  comprise 50% viable cells or more (that is, at least 50% of the cells in the population
  functional or living). Preferably, at least 60% of the cells in the population are viable. More
  preferably, at least 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the cells in the population in the
  pharmaceutical composition are viable.
   [0209] The pharmaceutical compositions provided herein can comprise one or more
   compounds that, e.g., facilitate engraftment (e.g., anti-T-cell receptor antibodies, an
   immunosuppressant, or the like); stabilizers such as albumin, dextran 40, gelatin,
   hydroxyethyl starch, plasmalyte, and the like.
   [02101 When formulated as an injectable solution, in one embodiment, the pharmaceutical
   composition comprises about 1%to 1.5% HSA and about 2.5% dextran. In a preferred
                                                  -67-

      WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
  embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises from about 5 x 106 cells per
  milliliter to about 2 x 107 cells per milliliter in a solution comprising 5% HSA and 10%
  dextran, optionally comprising an immunosuppressant, e.g., cyclosporine A at, e.g., 10
  mg/kg.
  [02111 In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition, e.g., a solution, comprises a
  plurality of cells, e.g., isolated placental stem cells, wherein said pharmaceutical composition
  comprises between about 1.0 ±0.3 x 106 cells per milliliter to about 5.0 ± 1.5 x 106 cells per
  milliliter. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises between about
  1.5 x 106 cells per milliliter to about 3.75 x 106 cells per milliliter. In other embodiments, the
  pharmaceutical composition comprises between about 1 x 106 cells/mL to about 50          x 106
  cells/mL, about 1 x 106 cells/mL to about 40 x 106 cells/mL, about 1 X 106 cells/mL to about
  30 x 106 cells/mL, about 1 x 106 cells/mL to about 20 x 106 cells/mL, about 1 x 106 cells/mL
 to about 15 x 106 cells/mL, or about 1 x 106 cells/mL to about 10 x 106 cells/mL. In certain
 embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises no visible cell clumps (i.e., no
 macro cell clumps), or substantially no such visible clumps. As used herein, "macro cell
 clumps" means an aggregation of cells visible without magnification, e.g., visible to the
 naked eye, and generally refers to a cell aggregation larger than about 150 microns In some
 embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises about 2.5%, 3.0%, 3.5%, 4.0%,
 4.5%, 5.0%, 5.5%, 6.0%, 6.5%, 7.0%, 7.5% 8.0%, 8.5%, 9.0%, 9.5% or 10% dextran, e.g.,
 dextran-40. In a specific embodiment, said composition comprises about 7.5% to about 9%
 dextran-40. In a specific embodiment, said composition comprises about 5.5 % dextran-40.
 In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises from about 1% to about
 15% human serum albumin (HSA). In specific embodiments, the pharmaceutical
 composition comprises about 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 65, 75, 8%, 9%, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13%,
 14% or 15% HSA. In a specific embodiment, said cells have been cryopreserved and thawed.
In another specific embodiment, said cells have been filtered through a 70 pM to 100 pM
filter. In another specific embodiment, said composition comprises no visible cell clumps. In
another specific embodiment, said composition comprises fewer than about 200 cell clumps
per 106 cells, wherein said cell clumps are visible only under a microscope, e.g., a light
microscope. In another specific embodiment, said composition comprises fewer than about
150 cell clumps per 106 cells, wherein said cell clumps are visible only under a microscope,
e.g., a light microscope. In another specific embodiment, said composition comprises fewer
than about 100 cell clumps per 106 cells, wherein said cell clumps are visible only under a
microscope, e.g., a light microscope.
                                                  -68-

    WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
[0212] In a specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises about 1.0 ±0.3 x
106   cells per milliliter, about 5.5% dextran-40 (w/v), about 10% HSA (w/v), and about 5%
DMSO (v/v).
[02131 In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a plurality of cells,
e.g., a plurality of isolated placental stem cells in a solution comprising 10% dextran-40,
wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises between about 1.0 ± 0.3 x 106 cells per
milliliter to about 5.0 +1.5 x 106 cells per milliliter, and wherein said composition comprises
no cell clumps visible with the unaided eye (i.e., comprises no macro cell clumps). In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises between about 1.5 x 106 cells per
milliliter to about 3.75 x 106 cells per milliliter. In a specific embodiment, said cells have
been cryopreserved and thawed. In another specific embodiment, said cells have been
 filtered through a 70 tM to 100 pM filter. In another specific embodiment, said composition
 comprises fewer than about 200 micro cell clumps (that is, cell clumps visible only with
 magnification) per 106 cells. In another specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical
 composition comprises fewer than about 150 micro cell clumps per 106 cells. In another
 specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises fewer than about 100 micro
 cell clumps per 106 cells. In another specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition
 comprises less than 15%, 14%, 13%, 12%, 11%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 7%, 6%, 5%, 4%, 3%, or 2%
 DMSO, or less than 1%, 0.9%, 0.8%, 0.7%, 0.6%, 0.5%, 0.4%, 0.3%, 0.2%, or 0.1% DMSO.
  [02141 Further provided herein are compositions comprising cells, wherein said compositions
  are produced by one of the methods disclosed herein. For example, in one embodiment, the
  pharmaceutical composition comprises cells, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
  produced by a method comprising filtering a solution comprising placental stem cells to form
  a filtered cell-containing solution; diluting the filtered cell-containing solution with a first
                                                                                              6
  solution to about 1 to 50 x 106, 1 to 40 x 106, 1 to 30 x 106, 1 to 20 x 106, 1 to 15 x 10 , or 1
  to 10 x 106 cells per milliliter, e.g., prior to cryopreservation; and diluting the resulting
  filtered cell-containing solution with a second solution comprising dextran, but not
  comprising human serum albumin (HSA) to produce said composition. In certain
   embodiments, said diluting is to no more than about 15 x 106 cells per milliliter. In certain
   embodiments, said diluting is to no more than about 10 3 x 106 cells per milliliter. In
   certain embodiments, said diluting is to no more than about 7.5 x 106cells per milliliter. In
   other certain embodiments, if the filtered cell-containing solution, prior to the dilution,
   comprises less than about 15 x 106 cells per milliliter, filtration is optional. In other certain
   embodiments, if the filtered cell-containing solution, prior to the dilution, comprises less than
                                                     -69-

      WO 2010/060031                                                             PCT/US2009/065509
  about 10 ± 3 x 106 cells per milliliter, filtration is optional. In other certain embodiments, if
  the filtered cell-containing solution, prior to the dilution, comprises less than about 7.5 x 106
  cells per milliliter, filtration is optional.
   [02151 In a specific embodiment, the cells are cryopreserved between said diluting with a
  first dilution solution and said diluting with said second dilution solution. In another specific
  embodiment, the first dilution solution comprises dextran and HSA. The dextran in the first
  dilution solution or second dilution solution can be dextran of any molecular weight, e.g.,
  dextran having a molecular weight of from about 10 kDa to about 150 kDa. In some
  embodiments, said dextran in said first dilution solution or said second solution is about
  2.5%, 3.0%, 3.5%, 4.0%, 4.5%, 5.0%, 5.5%, 6.0%, 6.5%, 7.0%, 7.5% 8.0%, 8.5%, 9.0%,
  9.5% or 10% dextran. In another specific embodiment, the dextran in said first dilution
  solution or said second dilution solution is dextran-40. In another specific embodiment, the
  dextran in said first dilution solution and said second dilution solution is dextran-40. In
  another specific embodiment, said dextran-40 in said first dilution solution is 5.0% dextran
 40. In another specific embodiment, said dextran-40 in said first dilution solution is 5.5%
 dextran-40. In another specific embodiment, said dextran-40 in said second dilution solution
  is 10% dextran-40. In another specific embodiment, said HSA in said solution comprising
 HSA is 1 to 15 % HSA. In another specific embodiment, said HSA in said solution
 comprising HSA is about 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13%,
  14% or 15 % HSA. In another specific embodiment, said HSA in said solution comprising
 HSA is 10% HSA. In another specific embodiment, said first dilution solution comprises
 HSA. In a more specific embodiment, said HSA in said first dilution solution is 10% HSA.
 In another specific embodiment, said first dilution solution comprises a cryoprotectant. In a
 more specific embodiment, said cryoprotectant is DMSO. In another specific embodiment,
 said dextran-40 in said second dilution solution is about 10% dextran-40. In another specific
 embodiment, said composition comprising cells comprises about 7.5% to about 9% dextran.
In another specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises from about 1.0
±0.3 x 106 cells per milliliter to about 5.0 ±1.5 x 106 cells per milliliter. In another specific
embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises from about 1.5 x 106 cells per
milliliter to about 3.75    x  106 cells per milliliter.
[02161 In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is made by a method
comprising (a) filtering 4 cell-containing solution comprising placental stem cells prior to
cryopreservation to produce a filtered cell-containing solution; (b) cryopreserving the cells in
the filtered cell-containiog solution at about I to 50 x 106, 1 to 40 x 106, 1 to 30 x 106, 1 to 20
                                                     -70-

     WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
x   106, 1 to 15 x 106, or 1 to 10 x 106 cells per milliliter; (c) thawing the cells; and (d) diluting
the filtered cell-containing solution about 1:1 to about 1:11 (v/v) with a dextran-40 solution.
In certain embodiments, if the number of cells is less than about 10 ± 3 x 106 cells per
milliliter prior to step (a), filtration is optional. In a more specific embodiment, the cells in
step (b) are cryopreserved at about 10 ± 3 x 106 cells per milliliter. In a more specific
embodiment, the cells in step (b) are cryopreserved in a solution comprising about 5%to
about 10% dextran-40 and HSA. In certain embodiments, said diluting in step (b) is to no
more than about 15 x 106 cells per milliliter.
 [0217] In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is made by a method
comprising: (a) suspending placental stem cells in a 5.5% dextran-40 solution that comprises
 10% HSA to form a cell-containing solution; (b) filtering the cell-containing solution through
 a 70 tM filter; (c) diluting the cell-containing solution with a solution comprising 5.5%
 dextran-40, 10% HSA, and 5%DMSO to about 1 to 50 x 106, 1 to 40 x 106, 1 to 30 x 106, 1
 to 20 x 106, 1 to 15 x 106, or 1 to 10 x 106 cells per milliliter; (d) cryopreserving the cells; (e)
 thawing the cells; and (f) diluting the cell-containing solution 1:1 to 1:11 (v/v) with 10%
 dextran-40. In certain embodiments, said diluting in step (c) is to no more than about 15 x
  106  cells per milliliter. In certain embodiments, said diluting in step (c) is to no more than
 about 10 ± 3 x 106 cells/mL. In certain embodiments, said diluting in step (c) is to no more
 than about 7.5 x 106 cells/mL.
  [0218] In another embodiment, the composition comprising cells is made by a method
  comprising: (a) centrifuging a plurality of cells, e.g., placental stem cells, to collect the cells;
  (b) resuspending the cells in 5.5% dextran-40; (c) centrifuging the cells to collect the cells;
  (d) resuspending the cells in a 5.5% dextran-40 solution that comprises 10% HSA; (e)
  filtering the cells through a 70 pM filter; (f) diluting the cells in 5.5% dextran-40, 10% HSA,
                                                           6             6              6
  and 5% DMSO to about I to 50 x 106, 1 to 40 x 10 , 1 to 30 x 10 , 1 to 20 x 10 , 1 to 15 x
   106, or I to 10 x 106 cells per milliliter; (g) cryopreserving the cells; (h) thawing the cells; and
  (i) diluting the cells 1:1 to 1:11 (v/v) with 10% dextran-40. In certain embodiments, said
  diluting in step (f) is to no more than about 15 x 106 cells per milliliter. In certain
  embodiments, said diluting in step (f) is to no more than about 10 t 3 x 106 cells/mL. In
  certain embodiments, said diluting in step (f) is to no more than about 7.5 x 106 cells/mL. In
  other certain embodiments, if the number of cells is less than about 10 ± 3 x 106 cells per
  milliliter, filtration is optional.
                                                     -71-

     WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
  [0219] The compositions, e.g., pharmaceutical compositions comprising the isolated
 placental cells, described herein can comprise any of the isolated placental stem cells
 described herein.
  [0220] Other injectable formulations, suitable for the administration of cellular products, may
 be used.
  [0221] In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition comprises isolated placental
 stem cells that are substantially, or completely, non-maternal in origin, that is, have the fetal
 genotype; e.g., at least about 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or about 100% are non-maternal in origin.
  [02221 In a specific embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition additionally comprises a
 stem cell that is not obtained from a placenta.
 [0223] Isolated placental stem cells in the compositions, e.g., pharmaceutical compositions,
 provided herein, can comprise placental stem cells derived from a single donor, or from
 multiple donors. The isolated placental cells can be completely HLA-matched to an intended
 recipient, or partially or completely HLA-mismatched.
                          4.6.1.3 Placental Stem Cell Conditioned Media
 [02241 The placental cells, e.g., placental stem cells, provided herein can be used to produce
 conditioned medium. In various embodiments, the conditioned medium comprises medium
 in which placental stem cells have grown for at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14
or more days. In other embodiments, the conditioned medium comprises medium in which
placental stem cells have grown to at least 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%
confluence, or up to 100% confluence. In another embodiment, the conditioned medium
comprises medium in which placental stem cells and non-placental, non-umbilical cord stem
cells have been cultured.
                 4.6.2   Placental Cell Bank
[0225] Cells, e.g., placental stem cells, from postpartum placentas and/or umbilical cords can
be cultured in a number of different ways to produce a set of lots, e.g., a set of individually
administrable doses, of placental stem cells. Such lots can, for example, be obtained from
stem cells from placental perfusate or umbilical cord perfusate, or from enzyme-digested
placental tissue or umbilical cord tissue. Sets of lots of placental stem cells, obtained from
one or a plurality of placentas, can be arranged in a bank of cells for, e.g., long-term storage.
Generally, adherent stem cells are obtained from an initial culture of placental or umbilical
cord material to form a seed culture, e.g., of placental stem cells, which is expanded under
                                                -72-

     WO 2010/060031                                                              PCT/US2009/065509
controlled conditions to form populations of cells from approximately equivalent numbers of
doublings. Lots are preferably derived from the tissue of a single placenta or umbilical cord,
but can be derived from the tissue of a plurality of placentas.
[0226] In one embodiment, stem cell lots are obtained as follows. Tissue is first disrupted,
e.g., by mincing, digested with a suitable enzyme, e.g., collagenase (see Section 5.2.3,
above). The tissue preferably comprises, e.g., the entire amnion, entire chorion, both, or an
umbilical cord from a single placenta, but can comprise only a part of the amnion, chorion or
umbilical cord. The digested tissue is cultured, e.g., for about 1-3 weeks, preferably about 2
weeks. After removal of non-adherent cells, high-density colonies that form are collected,
e.g., by trypsinization. These cells are collected and resuspended in a convenient volume of
 culture medium, and defined as Passage 0 cells.
 [02271 Passage 0 cells are then used to seed expansion cultures. Expansion cultures can be
 any arrangement of separate cell culture apparatuses, e.g., a Cell Factory by NUNCTM. Cells
 in the Passage 0 culture can be subdivided to any degree so as to seed expansion cultures
                                                            3
 with, e.g., 1 x 103 , 2 x 103, 3 x 103, 4 x 103, 5 x 10 , 6 x 103, 7 x 103, 8 x 103, 9 x 103, 1 x
                                                                                                     4
  104, 1 x 104 2 x 104 , 3 x 104, 4 x 104, 5 x 10 , 6 x 104, 7 x 104, 8 x 104, 9 x 104, or 10 x 10
                                                    4
                                                 3
 stem cells. Preferably, from about 1 x 10 to about 1 x 104 Passage 0 cells per square
 centimeter are used to seed each expansion culture. The number of expansion cultures can
 depend upon the number of Passage 0 cells, and may be greater or fewer in number
 depending upon the particular placenta(s) from which the stem cells are obtained.
  [02281 Expansion cultures are grown until the density of cells in culture reaches a certain
  value, e.g., about 1 x 105 cells/cm 2 . Cells can either be collected and cryopreserved at this
  point, or passaged into new expansion cultures as described above. Cells can be passaged,
  e.g., 2, 3, 4 , 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20 times prior to use. A
  record of the cumulative number of population doublings is preferably maintained during
  expansion culture(s). The cells from a Passage 0 culture can be expanded for 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
  8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38 or 40 doublings, or up to 60
  doublings. Preferably, however, the number of population doublings, prior to dividing the
  population of cells into individual doses, is between about 15 and about 30 doublings. The
  cells can be culture continuously throughout the expansion process, or can be frozen at one or
  more points during expansion.
                                                                                          for later use.
   [02291 Cells to be used for individual doses can be frozen, e.g., cryopreserved
   Individual doses can comprise, e.g., about 1 million to about 50 million cells per ml, and can
   comprise between about 106 and about 1010 cells in total.
                                                      -73-

     WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
  [02301 In one embodiment, therefore, a placental stem cells cell bank can be made by a
 method comprising: expanding primary culture placental stem cells from a human post
 partum placenta or umbilical cord for a first plurality of population doublings; cryopreserving
 said placental stem cells to form a Master Cell Bank; expanding a plurality of placental stem
 cells from the Master Cell Bank for a second plurality of population doublings;
 cryopreserving the placental stem cells to form a Working Cell Bank; expanding a plurality
 of placental stem cells from the Working Cell Bank for a third plurality of population
 doublings; and cryopreserving the placental stem cells in individual doses, wherein said
 individual doses collectively compose a placental stem cell bank.
 [0231] In another specific embodiment, primary culture cells comprise placental stem cells
 from placental perfusate. In another specific embodiment, said primary culture cells
 comprise placental stem cells from digested placental tissue. In another specific embodiment,
 said primary culture cells comprise placental stem cells from placental perfusate and from
 digested placental tissue. In another specific embodiment, all of said placental stem cells in
 said primary culture are from the same placenta. In another specific embodiment, the method
 further comprises the step of selecting CD200* placental stem cells from said plurality of
 cells from said Working Cell Bank to form individual doses. In another specific
 embodiment, said individual doses comprise from about 104 to about 105 placental stem cells.
 In another specific embodiment, said individual doses comprise from about 105 to about 106
placental stem cells. In another specific embodiment, said individual doses comprise from
 about 106 to about 107 placental stem cells. In another specific embodiment, said individual
doses comprise from about 107 to about 108 placental stem cells. In another specific
embodiment, said individual doses comprise from about 108 to about 109 placental stem cells.
In another specific embodiment, said individual doses comprise from about 109 to about 1010
placental stem cells.
 [02321 In a preferred embodiment, the donor from which the placenta is obtained (e.g., the
mother) is tested for at least one pathogen. If the mother tests positive for a tested pathogen,
the entire lot from the placenta is discarded. Such testing can be performed at any time
during production of placental stem cell lots, including before or after establishment of
Passage 0 cells, or during expansion culture. Pathogens for which the presence is tested can
include, without limitation, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, hepatitis D, hepatitis E,
human immunodeficiency virus (types I and II), cytomegalovirus, herpesvirus, and the like.
                                               -74-

    WO 2010/060031                                                       PCT/US2009/065509
5.        EXAMPLES
          5.1    EXAMPLE 1: TREATMENT OF DISEASES, DISORDERS OR
                 CONDITIONS OF THE LUNG USING PLACENTAL STEM CELLS
[0233] This Example provides example treatment regimens for diseases, disorders or
conditions of the lung.
                  5.1.1  Treatment of Acute Lung Injury
 [02341 An individual presents with an acute lung injury due to smoke inhalation. The
individual is administered I x 108 to 5 x 109 CD10+CD34-CD105*CD200* placental stem
cells in a 0.9% NaCl solution intravenously. The individual is monitored over the subsequent
two weeks to assess reduction in one or more of the symptoms, including an increase in
 forced expiratory volume (FEV). The individual is monitored over the course of the next
year, and placental stem cells in the same dose are administered as needed.
                  5.1.2  Treatment of an Interstitial Lung Disorder
 [02351 An individual presents with symptoms including shortness of breath, nonproductive
 cough, and evidence of hemorrhage in one lung. A diagnosis of interstitial lung disease is
                                               8
 made. The individual is administered 5 x 10 to 1 x 109 CD10*CD34~CD105+CD200*
 placental stem cells in a 0.9% NaCI solution intravenously. The individual is monitored over
 the next 100 days for detectable improvement, as determined by spriometry or other
 measurement of forced expiratory volume (FEV). The individual is optionally also assessed
 by one or more of a chest X-ray, CT scan or MRI to determine whether the hemorrhage has
  improved.
                   5.1.3  Prophylaxis of a Lung Disorder
                          Associated with Graft-Versus-Host Disease
  [02361 An individual awaiting an allogeneic bone marrow transplant is administered 5 x 108
  to 1 x 109 CDIOCD34~CD105*CD200* placental stem cells in 0.9% NaCl solution
  intravenously within 24 hours prior to bone marrow transplantation. Administration of the
  cells is repeated within 24 hours after bone marrow transplantation. The individual is
  monitored over the next 100 days, and is administered a follow-up dose of 5-10 x 108
  CD10CD34-CD105*CD200* placental stem cells if GVHD develops and progresses beyond
   Grade I.
                                                 -75-

   WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
                 5.1.4  Treatment of a Lung Disorder Caused by Graft-Versus-Host Disease
[02371 An individual who has received an allogeneic bone marrow transplant presents with
bronchiolitis obliterans and Grade III graft-versus-host disease. The individual is
administered 5 x 108 to 1 x 109 CD1OCD34~CD105*CD200* placental stem cells in 0.9%
NaCt solution intravenously within 24 hours of presentation, and the individual is monitored
daily for one week by spirometry to determine improvement in breathing. If breathing is not
substantially improved within 4-7 days after initial administration, as assessed by at least a
10% improvement in either forced expiratory volume (FEV 1) or forced vital capacity (FVC),
or an improvement of the FEV 1/FVC ratio to at least 80%, administration of the cells is
repeated. The individual is optionally administered one or more of an inhaled steroid, an oral
steroid, or azithromycin (e.g., 250 mg once a day for approximately 3 months post
presentation) in addition to the placental stem cells. The individual is monitored over the
next 100 days, and is administered a follow-up dose of 5 x 108 to 1 x 109 CD 1OCD34
CD105*CD200* placental stem cells at any time if GVHD of Grade III or worse recurs, or if
FEVI or FVC decrease at any time by 10% or more, or if the FEVI/FVC ratio falls to <70%.
                 5.1.5   Treatment of a Lung Disorder Caused by Graft-Versus-Host Disease
[02381 An individual who has received a liver transplant presents with bronchiolitis
obliterans and Grade III graft-versus-host disease. The individual is administered 2 x 108 to 8
x 108 CD10*CD34-CD105*CD200* placental stem cells in 0.9% NaCl solution intravenously
(day 0); a second administration is given 7 days later. The individual is monitored daily
between doses, and for 7 days afterwards, by spirometry to determine improvement in
breathing. If breathing is not substantially improved within 4-7 days after the second
administration, as assessed by at least a 10% improvement in either forced expiratory volume
(FEV 1 ) or forced vital capacity (FVC), or an improvement of the FEV1/FVC ratio to at least
75%, or if the GVHD does not abate to Grade II or lower, administration of the cells is
repeated, and the individual is administered one or more of an inhaled steroid, an oral steroid,
or azithromycin (e.g., 250 mg once a day for approximately 3 months post-presentation) in
addition to the placental stem cells. The individual is monitored over the next 100 days, and
is administered a follow-up dose of 5 x 108 to 1 x 109 CD10CD34-CD105*CD200* placental
stem cells at any time if GVHD of Grade III or worse recurs, or if FEV 1 or FVC decrease at
any time by 10% or more, or if the FEV1/FVC ratio falls to <70%.
                                               -76-

     WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
                 5.1.6    Treatment of Lung Disorders Associated With Rheumatoid Arthritis
[02391 An individual presents with rheumatoid arthritis with involvement of the lung. The
individual is administered 1-5 x 108 CD0CD34~CD105*CD200* placental stem cells in
0.9% NaCI solution intravenously. The individual is given methotrexate at a standard dosage
and monitored for reduction in lung inflammation.
 [02401 A second individual presents with rheumatoid arthritis with involvement of the lung.
The lung involvement is in part due to administration of methotrexate. Methotrexate therapy
is halted, and the individual is administered a combination of unmodified placental stem cells
 and placental stem cells that have been modified to produce a fusion polypeptide comprising
IL- IRa and DHFR, wherein the two types of stem cells are administered in a 1:1 ratio. The
 engineered and non-engineered cells are 1-5 x 108 CD10 CD34-CD105*CD200 placental
 stem cells in 0.9% NaCl solution. The individual is monitored for reduction in lung
 inflammation.
                 5.1.7    Treatment of a Lung Disorder Associated with SLE
 [02411 An individual presents with pneumonitis and vasculitis of the lungs, in addition to
 fever, weakness, arthralgia (pain in the joints), diplopia (double vision), strabismus and
 hypoaesthesia in both hands and feet, microhematuria (detectable quantity of blood in the
 urine), hypocomplementemia and high titers of autoimmune antibodies. A diagnosis of
 systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is made. The individual is refractory to pulsotherapy
                                                                                               9
 with methylprednisolone, and to cyclophosphamide. The individual is administered 1 x 10
 to 5 x 109 CD10CD34-CD105*CD200+ placental stem cells in a 0.9% NaCI solution
 intravenously, and is administered a second dose 7 days later. The individual is monitored
 for the next 30-100 days for reduction in lung function, as indicated by reduction in either
 forced expiratory volume (FEV 1) or forced vital capacity (FVC), or a reduction of the
 FEV 1/FVC ratio. Given the condition of the individual, administration of placental stem cells
  is considered effective if any of these indicators do not worsen.
                  5.1.8   Treatment of a Lung Disorder Associated With IBD
  [02421 An individual, previously diagnosed with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), presents
 with dyspnea not associated with sulfasalazine or 5-aminosalicylic acid. Other causes of the
  dyspnea (e.g., allergies, asthma, and the like) were ruled out. The individual is further
  refractory to oral steroids and immunosuppressive therapy. On suspicion the individual has
  pulmonary involvement of IBD, the individual is administered 5 x 108 to 1 x 109
                                                  -77-

     WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
  CD10CD34-CD105*CD200* placental stem cells in a 0.9% NaCl solution intravenously.
  The individual is monitored over the next 7-14 days for improvement in the dyspnea, as
  assessed by at least a 10% improvement in either forced expiratory volume (FEV1 ) or forced
  vital capacity (FVC), or an improvement of the FEVI/FVC ratio to at least 75%.
                  5.1.9  Treatment of a Lung Disorder Associated with Scleroderma
  [02431 An individual, previously diagnosed with scleroderma, presents with lung
  involvement diagnosed as interstitial lung disease, as evidenced by reduction in the single
  breath diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) compared to normal, confirmed by
  the presence of lymphocytes and eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage. The individual is
  administered 5 x 108 to 1 x 109 CD10CD34-CD105*CD200* placental stem cells in a 0.9%
 NaCl solution intravenously. The individual is monitored over the next 30-100 days for any
  detectable improvement in DLCO, dyspnea and/or the presence of lymphocytes and
  eosinophils in bronchoalveolar lavage; any reduction is an indication the administration of the
 placental stem cells is efficacious.
                  5.1.10 Treatment of Interstitial Lung Disease
  [02441 An individual presents with dyspnea, loss of weight, dry, unproductive cough, and a
 FEV 1 /FVC ratio of <80%. A diagnosis of interstitial lung disease (ILD) is made. Because
 the cause of the lung disease is not apparent, the lung disease is characterized as idiopathic.
 The individual is administered 5 x 108 to 1 x 10' CD10CD34~CD105+CD200+ placental
 stem cells in a 0.9% NaCl solution intravenously. The individual is monitored at least once a
 month for one year for any detectable improvement in, or lessening of worsening of, forced
 expiratory volume (FEV 1 ) or forced vital capacity (FVC), or an reduction of the FEV1/FVC
 ratio. Administration of placental stem cells is considered effective if any of these indicators
 do not worsen. If worsening of any of these parameters occurs, the individual is administered
 a followup dose at the same level as the initial dose.
 [02451 A second individual presents with dyspnea, loss of weight, dry, unproductive cough,
and a FEVi/FVC ratio of <80%. A diagnosis of interstitial lung disease (ILD) is made. The
ILD is apparently due to recent exposure to asbsestos, as confirmed by work history, dry
inspratory crackles, and a chest X-ray showing plaques above the diaphragm. The individual
is administered 5 x 108 to I x 109 CD10CD34~CD105+CD200+ placental stem cells in a
0.9% NaCl solution intravenously, optionally in combination with an oral corticosteroid. The
individual is monitored at least once a month for the remainder of the individual's life for any
                                                -78-

     WO 2010/060031                                                         PCT/US2009/065509
detectable improvement in, or lessening of worsening of, forced expiratory volume (FEV1 ) or
forced vital capacity (FVC), or a reduction of the FEVi/FVC ratio. Given the condition of
the individual, administration of placental stem cells is considered effective if any of these
indicators do not worsen. If worsening of any of these parameters occurs, the individual is
administered a followup dose at the same level as the initial dose.
                 5.1.11 Treatment of Interstitial Lung Disease
[02461 An individual presents with dyspnea, persistent cough, and an enlargement of the
chest (hyperaeration). The individual shows a FEV 1/FVC ratio of <60% even with
bronchodilator therapy. Based on the individual's history as a smoker, a diagnosis of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (emphysema) is made. The individual is administered 5 x 108
to 1 x 109 CDIOCD34-CD105+CD200* placental stem cells in a 0.9% NaCl solution
 intravenously, optionally in combination with an bronchodilator such as albuterol and an
 inhaled corticosteroid. The individual is monitored by spirometry at least once a month for
 the remainder of the individual's life for any detectable improvement in, or lessening of
 worsening of, forced expiratory volume (FEV1 ) or forced vital capacity (FVC), or a reduction
 of the FEV1/FVC ratio. Given the condition of the individual, administration of placental
 stem cells is considered effective if any of these indicators do not worsen.
          5.2     EXAMPLE 2: LUNG-SPECIFIC LOCALIZATION OF PLACENTAL STEM
                  CELLS
  [02471 Biodistribution of placental stem cells was evaluated in immunocompromised mice.
  [02481 In a pilot study, CD10*CD34~CD105+CD200* placental stem cells were administered
  as a single and/or repeat intravenous tail injection to both male and female NOD-SCID or
  male C57BL/lOSgSnAi-Rag2(tmi)yc(tmi) mice (Taconic Farms, Germantown, New York).
  Mice were sacrificed at 4, 14, 28 or 47 days posttreatment and samples of lung, liver, heart,
  kidneys, spleen, adrenal glands, bone marrow, and brain were processed and analyzed by Q
  PCR. Following IV administration, human DNA was detected in isolated total DNA from
  samples of lung, brain, heat and/or liver in mice that were sacrificed 4 days postdose. The
  highest levels of DNA were detected in the lung. Results indicated that the biodistribution of
  placental stem cells was primarily limited to the lung at Day 4 posttreatment. Human DNA
  was not detected in mouse tissue samples sacrificed at 14, 28 or 47 days posttreatment.
   [02491 A second study was performed in which mice dosed with placental stem cells either as
  a single dose or repeat IV doses on days 1, 4 and 7 were evaluated for biodistribution and
  persistence of the placental stem cells by detection of the human telomerase reverse
                                                  -79-

      WO 2010/060031                                                            PCT/US2009/065509
  transcriptase (hTERT) gene. Mice were sacrificed at 4 and 24 hours following the first IV
  dose of placental stem cells as well as 4 hours postdose on day 7 (3d repeat dose) and on days
  37 and 92. Human DNA was detected at 4 hours postdose in most tissues tested including
  most samples of lung, injection site, liver, spleen, and heart, indicating early distribution of
  cells to organs with higher blood flow. By 24 hours postdose, however, only lung tissue
  consistently harbored human DNA, whereas other tissues except injection sites and one
  sample of brain were cleared of human DNA. At 7 days postdose, only lung and a small
  number of injection sites were still positive for human DNA. By day 37, only a single lung
  tissue sample was weakly positive for human DNA. No human DNA was detected in any
  tissues from any animals evaluated at day 92. After repeat IV injections of 1 x 106
  cells/mouse, placental stem cells were detected I the same tissues at 4 hours after the third
  injection as were detected at 4 hours after a single IV injection, and all tissues were
  completely cleared of human DNA by day 92.
           5.3    EXAMPLE 3: ANALYSIS OF PLACENTAL STEM CELLS IN A
                  BLEOMYCIN MODEL OF C57BL/6 MICE
  [0250] This Example provides studies demonstrating the effectiveness of placental stem cells
  in the treatment of fibrotic lung disease. In this example, the placental stem cells are CD34-,
 CD10*, CD105*, CD200* culture-expanded, tissue culture plastic-adherent cells from
 placenta. The cells are karyotypically normal after expansion, and are provided at a
 concentration of approximately 7.5 x 106 cells/mL.
 Study Using Mice
 [0251] Bleomycin is a cytostatic drug commonly employed in the treatment of cancer.
 Administration of bleomycin typically results in chronic pulmonary inflammation that may
 progress to fibrosis. As such, administration of bleomycin to experimental animals is an
 accepted model of lung fibrosis in humans.
 [0252] Eighty-four male C57CL6 mice, 6 weeks old and weighing 20-22 grams, are
 acclamatized for 72 hours, then assigned by twelves to one of seven different groups: (1)
saline administration (negative control); (2) bleomycin; (3) saline + 1.5 x 106 placental stem
cells; (4) bleomycin + vehicle; (5) bleomycin + 1.5 x 106 placental stem cells; (6) bleomycin
(in 0.9% NaCl solution) + 1.5 x 106 normal human dermal fibroblasts (NHDFs); and (7)
bleomycin + pirfenidone. Bleomycin, saline, and cells are administered intravenously into
the tail vein in 400 L solution. Perfenidone is administered orally 400 mg/kg/day in 0.5%
                                                 -80-

     WO 2010/060031                                                           PCT/US2009/065509
carboxymethylcellulose. Within each group, six mice are killed at day 10 post
administration, and the remaining six are killed at day 21 post-administration.
[02531 Results of the administrations are evaluated by broncheoalveolar lavage (BAL) and
immunohistochemistry. Levels of TNF-a, TGF-3, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF),
platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), hepatocyte growth
factor (HGF), interleukin- 13 (IL- 13), IL-i1P, IL- 10 and IL-8 levels in BAL fluid and lung
homogenate are determined by ELISA or comparable methodology.
 [02541 For immunohistochemistry, lung lobes are perfused with formalin + a phosphatase
inhibitor cocktail. The extent of collagen deposition is analyzed in part by measuring the
 amount of hydroxyproline in the lung tissue. Briefly, lungs are homogenized in 5 mL saline,
 and digested in 2 ml of 6 N HC1 for 16 hours at 110 C. Following neutralization with NaOH
 until pH 7, one ml of 0.5 mol/L Chloramine T reagent is then added and allowed to react at
 room temperature for 20 minutes. 1 ml of 3.15 N perchloric acid and P-dimethylaminobenz
 aldehyde are then added to each sample and incubated for 20 minutes at 65'C. Samples are
 cooled for 10 minutes, then read at 557 nm on a spectrophotometer using trans-24-hydroxy
 L-proline concentrations from 0 to 5 mg/ml as a standard curve. Higher amounts of
 hydroxyproline indicate higher amounts of collagen deposition. See Krishna, G., et al. Am. J.
 Path. 158:997-1004 (2001).
  [02551 Histopathology includes examination of lung tissues for evidence of fibrosis or
  fibrotic loci. placental stem cells are identified by staining with an antibody specific for
  human vimentin.
  [02561 Efficacy of placental stem cells is established by a demonstration of a lower level of
  any inflammation-related cytokine compared to bleomycin controls, or a significantly lower
  level of hydroxyproline in lung homogenates in the presence of placental stem cells
  compared to bleomycin controls.
  Study Using Rats
   102571 Sixty male SD@ rats (Charles River Laboratories), age 7-8 weeks and weighing
   approximately 176-225 g, are divided into five groups: (1) intratracheal dosing of vehicle
   (0.9% NaCl solution) followed in 15 minutes by intravenous dosing of vehicle; (2)
   intratracheal dosing of vehicle followed in 15 minutes by intravenous dosing of 4.0 x 106
   cells placental stem cells in 800 [tL solution; (3) intratracheal dosing of bloomycin (e.g.,
   BLENOXANE@, 3 units per kg) followed in 15 minutes by intravenous dosing of vehicle;
   (4) intratracheal dosing of bleomycin (3 units per kg) followed in 15 minutes by intravenous
   dosing of 1.0  x 106 cells placental stem cells in 800 [tL solution; and (5) intratracheal dosing
                                                   -81-

      WO 2010/060031                                                        PCT/US2009/065509
  of bleomycin (3 units per kg) followed in 15 minutes by intravenous dosing of 4.0 x 106 cells
  placental stem cells in 800 [tL solution.
   [0258] After 15 days, animals are assessed for various physiological parameters. All animals
  are assessed for body weight. Blood (0.2 mL) is collected from all animals via the jugular
  vein and analyzed for peripheral gases, and another -3.5 mL is drawn via the periorbital sinus
  for serum extraction. Blood gas analysis includes analysis of pH, pCO 2 , PO2, aHCO 3 (actual
  HCO 3 ), tCO 3 , CO-oximetry measurements (e.g., hemoglobin, fractional oxyhemoglobin,
  saturated oxyhemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin, and methhemoglobin).
  [02591 All animals are additionally tested antemortem for lung function using a flexiVent
  (SCIREQ@), and data for Newtonian resistance (measuring resistance of the central airways)
  and compliance is collected.
  [02601 Six animals in each group are killed, and the lungs are analyzed for wet weight, ratio
  of weight to weight of the animal, collagen deposition (by hydroxyproline assay; see above);
  and histopathology (for fibrosis, and inflammation scoring by H&E staining). For the
  remaining six animals in each group, broncheoalveolar lavage is performed, and the lavage
  fluid is analyzed for total leukocyte counts.
  [0261] Data collected in the study, as described above, is analyzed by analysis of variance,
 comparing Group 1, above, to Groups 2-5; comparing Group 2 to Groups 4 and 5; comparing
 Group 3 to Groups 4 and 5; and comparison of Group 4 to Group 5. Overall treatment effect
 is expected to be significant (p<0.05). Administration of placental stem cells is expected to
 provide significant benefit to bleomycin-challenged animals receiving the cells (Groups 4 and
 5) compared to bleomycin-challenged animals not receiving the cells (Group 3), with respect
 to at least one of pulmonary function, as determined by flexiVent, fibrosis (as determined by
 hydroxyproline testing for collagen deposition), or inflammation (as evidenced by reduced
 inflammation-related cells present in brochoalveolar lavage fluids, or immunohistochemistry
of lung tissue.
          5.4      EXAMPLE 4: PRECLINICAL STUDY OF TREATMENT OF LUNG
                   INFLAMMATION USING AN ANIMAL MODEL
 [02621 This Example describes the conduct of a prelinical study demonstrating that isolated
placental stem cells, administered intravenously, reduce airway inflammation.
[0263] Group housed 8-12 week old (age-matched), C57BL/6 male mice are used in the
experiment. The mice are maintained on a Light:Dark /12 AM:12 PM cycle in a barrier
facility. Food and drinking fluids are available ad libitum.
                                                -82-

     WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
[02641 The experiment includes seven treatment groups, consisting of 18 mice each. Mice in
groups 1-4 and 6 receive airway instillation of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a standard
inducer of inflammation once a day over the course of five days to induce airway
inflammation that is moderate to severe by histological examination. Mice in groups 1 and 2
receive isolated placental stem cells or placental stem cells at 0.5 or 1.0 million cells per
animal by i.v. injection, e.g., in the tail vein. Group 3 mice are injected with human dermal
fibroblasts at 1.0 million cells per animal by i.v. injection and serve as a cellular negative
control. Group 4 mice receive vehicle and serve as a baseline negative control group. Group
5 mice serve as a disease control group, and are instilled with phosphate buffered saline, but
 do not receive any LPS. The treatment was performed 1 hr after LPS administration. Group
 6 mice serve as a positive control, and receive a reference compound, dexamethasone, at 10
 mg/kg, to be administered by i.p. injection 1 hr after the LPS challenge. Group 7 mice
 receive only an i.v. administration of 1.0 million placental stem cells or placental stem cells,
 to control for the administration of the cells, e.g., on macrophage infiltration into the
 pulmonary tissues.
  [02651 Pulmonary inflammation is induced by administering 2 1tL of LPS in 30 1td       of PBS via
 intra-tracheal instillation once a day for five days. The disease control group is instilled with
 an equal volume of phosphate buffered saline. Each treatment group is divided into three
  subgroups of 6 mice each. The groups of 6 mice undergo broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) and
  tissue collection at 6, 24 or 48 hrs after the exposure to LPS.
  [02661 The following samples are collected from each animal at 6, 24 and 48 hrs: peripheral
  blood; BAL fluid, collected by instilling 3 x I ml 0.1% bovine serum albumin in phosphate
  buffered saline via tracheal cannula; and the lungs. The cellular composition of broncho
  alveolar lavage fluid is determined by FACS analysis with anti-Grl, anti-CD1 lb (Mac 1) and
  anti-CD45 antibodies using a Becton Dickinson FACScan. The cellular composition of the
  lavage is expressed as a percentage of Grl and CD1 lb* cells from the gated lymphocyte
  population. One of the lungs is homogenized and used to determine the levels of TNFu, IL
   1P, mKC (mouse homologue of IL-8), IL-10, MIP-la and MIP-2 are determined in the
   homogenate. The second lung is fixed in 10% formalin and processed for histopathological
   analysis by H&E. The levels of TNFa, IL-l p, mKC, IL-10, MIP-la and MIP-2 are also
   measured in the sera of the mice by ELISA.
                                                                                         infiltration
   [02671 The extent of airway inflammation is determined by analysis of neutrophil
                                                                                                   in
   detectable by FACS analysis of lung and broncheoalveolar lavage fluids, with an increase
                                                   -83-

    WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
CD45+CD1 lb+ cells represent primarily monocytes/macrophages and polymorphic
granulocytes, and CD45*Gr1* cells are mostly neutrophils and polymorphic granulocytes.
Administration of placental stem cells post-induction of inflammation causes a significant
reduction in either CD45+CD1 1b+ cells, CD45*Grl       cells, or both present in lung or
broncheoalveolar lavage fluids. Inflammation is also determined by the levels in BAL fluids
of TNFa, IL-13, mKC, IL-10, MIP-la and MIP-2. Administration of placental stem cells
reduces the levels of one or more, or all of these cytokines. Dexamethasone (reference
compound) treatment at 10 mg/kg decreases neutrophil recruitment to the lungs and lavage
after administration of LPS.
Equivalents:
[02681 The compositions and methods disclosed herein are not to be limited in scope by the
specific embodiments described herein. Indeed, various modifications of the compositions
and methods in addition to those described will become apparent to those skilled in the art
from the foregoing description and accompanying figures. Such modifications are intended
to fall within the scope of the appended claims.
[02691 Various publications, patents and patent applications are cited herein, the disclosures
of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties.
                                              -84-

     WO 2010/060031                                                          PCT/US2009/065509
WHAT IS CLAIMED:
          I.      A method of treating an individual having a disease, disorder or condition of
the lung, comprising administering to the individual a therapeutically effective amount of
placental stem cells, wherein the therapeutically effective amount is an amount sufficient to
cause a detectable improvement in one or more symptoms of said disease, disorder or
condition.
          2.       The method of claim 1, comprising detecting said improvement by one or
 more of spirometry, peak flow meter, detection of CO 2 levels in the blood, radiography, CT
 scanning, magnetic resonance imaging, bronchoscopy, or broncheolar lavage.
          3.       The method of claim 1, wherein said disease, disorder or condition is
 associated with or caused by an immune response.
          4.       The method of claim 3, wherein said disease, disorder or condition is an
 autoimmune disease.
           5.      The method of claim 4, wherein said autoimmune disease is rheumatoid
 arthritis, scleroderma, inflammatory bowel disease, or systemic lupus erythematosus.
           6.      The method of claim 3, wherein said disease, disorder or condition is graft
 versus-host disease.
           7.      The method of claim 1, wherein said disease, disorder or condition is an
  interstitial lung disease.
           8.      The method of claim 7, wherein said interstitial lung disease is interstitial
  pulmonary fibrosis.
           9.      The method of claim 1, wherein said disease, disorder or condition is an
  obstructive lung disease.
            10.    The method of claim 9, wherein said obstructive lung disease is asthma,
  bronchitis, acute respiratory distress syndrome or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
            11.     The method of claim 1, wherein said disease, disorder or condition is an acute
  lung injury.
            12.     The method of claim 11, wherein said acute lung injury is caused by a
   chemical bum, smoke inhalation, or exposure to a toxic substance.
            13.     The method of claim 1, wherein said disease, disorder or condition is a lung
   injury caused by a neoplastic or parancoplastic disease, pneumonia, or cystic fibrosis.
            14.     The method of claim 13, wherein said administration results in a forced
   expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) to forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio of above 0.7.
                                                 -85-

   WO 2010/060031                                                        PCT/US2009/065509
        15.    The method of claim 1, wherein said placental stem cells are CD 10t, CD34-,
CD 105*, as detected by flow cytometry.
        16.    The method of claim 15, wherein said cells are CD200, as detected by flow
cytometry.
        17.    The method of claim 16, wherein said cells are CD90* and CD45-, as detected
by flow cytometry.
       18.     The method of claim 17, wherein said cells are CD44*, as detected by flow
cytometry.
       19.    The method of claim 17, wherein said cells are CD80- and CD86-, as detected
by flow cytometry.
       20.    The method of claim 15, wherein said cells are one or more of CD29', CD38~,
CD44*, CD54t , SH3' or SH4 t , as detected by flow cytometry.
       21.    The method of claim 15, wherein said cells are at least one of CD200', CD44',
CD45~, CD90*, CD117-, CD133-, KDR-, CD80~, CD86-, HLA-ABC t , HLA-DR~, or PDL*
                                            -86-

