Abstract
A bottom discharge bin 30 has an upstanding wall 31 that has a top opening and a
bottom opening. A bottom closure 33 is provided to close the bottom opening. An
actuation arrangement cooperates with the bottom closure 33 to shift the bottom
closure 33 between closed and open conditions. The bottom closure 33 comprises a
plurality of closure elements 34 that are rotatable between a closed position and an
open position. The actuation arrangement includes a plurality of elongate connectors
38 and each closure element 34 is connected to a first end of a connector 38 and the
opposite end of each connector 38 is positioned at a generally central point relative
to the wall 31 which is generally common to each of the second ends of the
connectors 38. An actuator 39 is connected to the second ends of the connectors 38
and the actuator 39 can be lowered to lower and rotate the connectors 38 to allow
the closure elements 34 to rotate from the closed position to the open position. The
actuator 39 can be lifted to lift and rotate the connectors 38, to cause the closure
elements 34 to rotate to the closed position. The actuator 39 can be lifted when the
closure elements 34 are in the closed position, to lift the bin 30.

                                BOTTOM DISCHARGE BIN
Technical Field
[0001]      The present invention relates generally to bins that discharge through a
bottom opening and that are used in earthworks for collecting and thereafter
dumping loose material into other bins, hoppers or into transport wagons or trucks.
The bins of the present invention will be primarily useful for the mining and
excavation industries, although they could have use elsewhere, such as in the
agricultural industry. It will be convenient however, to describe the invention as it
relates to use in the mining and excavation industries
Background of the Invention
[0002]      A reference herein to prior art is not to be taken as an admission that the
prior art was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of
the claims.
[0003]      The mining and excavation industries use large bins for the transport or
movement of earth, such as ore, rocks, sand, etc. The bins can be loaded with
cargo at one point or location for movement to a second point or location for
discharge of the cargo. For example, in the mining industry, bins will often be loaded
with ore from a conveyor and moved or shifted to a discharge location which permits
discharge of the ore into a rail wagon or into the freight tub of a truck.
[0004]      Bins of the kind that are relevant to the present invention are those that
open at the bottom for discharge of the bin contents. Thus, bins of this kind have
bottom closures that can be opened for discharge and closed for filling. Bins having
bottom closures exist already. One form of such a bin is rectangular and has a
rectangular bottom opening which can be closed by a pair of movable closures that
pivot along the long edge of the opening between open and closed positions. These
closures can be plates that swing between open and closed positions and which are
controlled by hydraulic arms that are positioned outside the bin and that connect to
one end or both ends of the plates. The hydraulic arms can thus draw the plates
                                              1

upwards to close the bottom opening so that the bin can be filled and can push the
plates downwards to open the bottom opening for discharge of the contents.
[0005]      Alternatively, the bottom opening of the bin can be closed by rotatable
louvres that span across the bottom opening between the long sides of the bin. The
louvres can be rotated from a closed position in which the louvres are generally
horizontal and the edges of the louvres overlap to close the bottom opening, to an
open position in which the louvres are rotated about 900 from the closed position to
present discharge openings between them. One or both of the opposite ends of the
louvres can be connected to a drive arm which is driven to drive the louvres to rotate
between the open and closed positions.
[0006]      Both of these arrangements require robust hydraulic mechanisms
particularly to be able to be able to support significant weight within the bin as the
plates or louvres open.
[0007]      The closures of rectangular bins can be controlled by hydraulic arms or
actuators as discussed above, that can open and close the bottom closure wherever
required. Alternatively, actuation arrangements that utilise the weight of the closures
of the bin, or the weight of the load inside the bin can be used to open and close the
bottom opening. For example, a bin can be suspended by a chain for example, with
the ends of the chain being connected to an opening and closing mechanism such
that the chain holds the bottom closure closed when the chain is supporting the
weight of the bin and any bin contents. With this mechanism, the bottom closure can
be opened or released by supporting the bin and allowing the chain to slacken. This
frees the opening and closing mechanism to open to discharge the bin contents. In
this arrangement, to allow discharge of bin contents into a hopper for example, a
support structure is required for the bin to be supported on to allow the chain to
slacken and to allow the opening and closing mechanism to open. This arrangement
is thus suitable for some installations which have dedicated loading and discharge
areas, but is not normally suitable where the location for loading and discharge is
random or varies.
[0008]      Rectangular bins are also required to be aligned with the hopper, rail
wagon or into the freight tub to which discharge is to be made so that the contents of
                                             2

the bin are properly discharged into the hopper, rail wagon or into the freight tub.
This requires the operational personnel to properly manually align the bin, or it
requires a framework into which the bin can be positioned or lowered to ensure
proper alignment.
[0009]      Circular bins also exist. These comprise a cylindrical wall and a bottom
closure that define an interior space. In some forms, the closure is an inverted cone
that extends up into the interior space and discharge the bin occurs by lowering the
cone relative to the cylindrical wall, so that the bin contents can flow past a gap
formed between the bottom edge of the cylindrical wall and the inclined or sloping
surface of the cone. In this form of bin, the cone is suspended, such as by a chain
and the cylindrical wall sits on an edge of the cone under its own weight. In that
state, the bin can be loaded and moved to a location for discharge. At that location,
the bin can be lowered into a position at which the cylindrical wall is supported
against further downward movement and the cone can continue to be lowered. In
this manner, the cone and the cylindrical wall separate and the gap is formed
between the bottom edge of the cylindrical wall and the inclined or sloping surface of
the cone, to allow discharge of the bin contents.
[0010]      Other forms of existing circular bins include a cylindrical wall and a
closure mechanism that is connected to the bottom of the wall and that can be
opened and closed. These forms of bins have hydraulic actuators externally
mounted to the outside of the cylindrical wall and that pivot bottom closures between
open and closed positions. These bins suffer the same drawbacks as the
hydraulically operated rectangular bins discussed above in relation to the
requirement for robust hydraulic mechanisms to be able to be able to support the
significant weight within the bin as the bottom closures open.
[0011]      The applicant has recognised the difficulties associated with the current
bins that a bottom discharging and has sought to develop a new form of bottom
discharge bin that overcomes or at least ameliorates one of more of the
disadvantages or drawbacks associated with the existing bins.
Summary of the Invention
                                              3

[0012]      According to the present invention there is provided a bottom discharge
bin which has:
         a. an upstanding wall that defines an interior space having a top opening
            and a bottom opening, and
         b. a bottom closure that is movable between a closed condition in which the
            bottom opening is closed and an open position in which the bottom
            opening is open for discharge of bin contents through the bottom opening,
         c. an actuation arrangement cooperating with the bottom closure to shift the
            bottom closure between the closed and open conditions,
            the bottom closure comprising a plurality of closure elements that are
 connected to a bottom end of the wall and that are rotatable relative to the bottom
 end of the wall between a closed position in which the closure elements cooperate
 to form a barrier against discharge of bin contents through the bottom opening and
 an open position in which the bottom opening is open for discharge of bin contents,
            the actuation arrangement including a plurality of elongate connectors
 within the interior space, the number of connectors being at least equal to the
  number of closure elements, each closure element being connected to a first end of
 a connector inboard of the connection of the closure element to the wall and the
 opposite and second end of each connector being positioned at a generally central
  point relative to the wall which is generally common to each of the second ends of
 the connectors, an actuator connected to the second ends of the connectors, the
 actuator being lowerable relative to the wall to lower and rotate the connectors, to
 allow the closure elements to rotate from the closed position to the open position,
 and the actuator being liftable relative to the wall to lift and rotate the connectors, to
 cause the closure elements to rotate from the open position to the closed position,
 the actuator being further liftable with the wall when the closure elements are in the
 closed position, to lift the bin.
[0013]      A bottom discharge bin according to the invention advantageously can be
mechanically operated with no requirement for hydraulic operation. Further, the bin
according to the invention can be lifted at the actuator so that lifting of the bin and
                                             4

actuation of the bottom closure occur through the same mechanism and generally
centrally of the wall, so that the complexity of the bin can be reduced as compared to
bins that have a closure mechanism and a separate lifting mechanism.
[0014]      A bottom discharge bin according to the invention has been developed in
relation to bins that have a cylindrical wall, although square or rectangular bins are
also within the scope of the present invention. However, the benefits attached to the
invention are most pronounced in relation to bins that have a cylindrical wall. For
example, bins that have a cylindrical wall can, in accordance with the invention, be
lifted along the central axis of the wall, by a lifting medium such as a rope, wire or
chain, rather than being lifted by engagement with opposite sides of an upper edge
of the wall. This is advantageous as suggested above because parts of the lifting
mechanism and the bottom closure mechanism are common. Also, central lifting
can be advantageous where a bin is not loaded evenly so that greater weight is
present on one side of the bin than the opposite side, as the central lifting medium is
not loaded unevenly due to uneven bin load. Moreover, a single rope, wire or chain
is less complex than a rope, wire or chain arrangement that extends to two or more
connection points along the upper edge of the wall.
[0015]      A further benefit of a circular bin relates to the collection bodies into which
a bottom discharge bin is intended to discharge into. Those collection bodies, as
described above, are usually in the form of other bins, hoppers, rail wagons or freight
tubs which are very often themselves square or rectangular. Thus, where the bottom
discharge bin is also square or rectangular, the discharge bin needs to be aligned
with the relevant collection body prior to discharge taking place, or else some of the
bin contents may be discharged to outside of the collection body. However, with a
circular discharge bin, the diameter of the bottom opening can be made to be of a
smaller dimension compared to the shortest width between opposite sides of the
square or rectangular collection body, so that the bottom opening can be lowered
into the collection body, just below the upper edge of the body, before the bottom
closure is opened. Advantageously, this lowering of the circular discharge bin into
the collection body can even take place as the circular discharge bin is rotating.
[0016]      The lifting medium will usually be a rope, wire or chain that is connected
to a crane or hoist. The lifting medium can be connected directly and permanently to
                                               5

the actuator that the second ends of the connectors connect to, although in most
forms of the invention, the lifting medium will releasably connect to the actuator. The
actuator can a rod, collar, sleeve or tube for example, to which the lifting medium can
be releasably connected. This allows the lifting medium to be connected to the
discharge bin when needed but to be released from the bin at other times. The lifting
medium could for example have a hook and the lifting component could include a
circular eye into which the hook can be fed. Other arrangements could equally
apply.
[0017]      In some forms of the invention, the bin includes a tube which is fixed
within the interior space, centrally within that space along the axis of or coaxial with
the cylindrical wall. The tube can be fixed in place by spokes or struts for example
that extend from the internal surface of the wall to the tube. The tube can partly
accommodate a further tube or post (hereinafter "post") to which the second ends of
the connectors are connected. The post will extend out of the tube and the
connectors can be connected to the post at a point or points outside the tube. The
second ends of the connectors will typically be connected to the post below the
bottom end of the tube and will typically be connected to the bottom end of the post.
The post can be shifted within the tube along the axis of the tube upwardly and
downwardly to raise or lower the point at which the second ends of the connectors
connect to the post. The tube is operable to guide the post in the upward and
downward movement. The tube and the post can also cooperate to limit upward and
downward movement by abutments that cooperate between them. Upward and
downward movement of the post allows the closure elements to open or close.
[0018]      The connectors can be rigid struts for example, or they could be chains,
rope or wire, or any other rigid or non-rigid member. Where the connectors are rigid
struts, they will connect to the tube and to the closure elements pivotally. This is not
required where the connectors are wires, ropes or chains. Where the connectors are
non-rigid, the closure elements will be arranged to open under their own weight or
under the weight of the bin contents as the non-rigid connectors cannot push the
closure elements open, ie the non-rigid connectors cannot operate in compression.
However, the non-rigid connectors can pull the closure elements closed operating
under tension.
                                              6

[0019]      In some forms of the invention, the connectors are rigid and curved.
[0020]      The lifting medium lifts the bin against the weight of the bin. The bottom
closure cannot open while the bin is lifted by the lifting medium without the bin
otherwise being supported. Accordingly, to discharge the bin contents, the bin must
supported to allow the lifting medium to be lowered or disconnected to allow relative
movement between the actuator and the bin wall that allows the connectors to be
lowered and the closure elements to rotate to the open position. The arrangement
can be such that the weight of the closure elements is sufficient to allow them to
rotate to the open position when the bin is otherwise supported. This allows the
bottom closure to be opened even though the bin is empty of bin contents. However,
when the bin contains bin contents, the weight of the bin contents will constantly
push against the closure elements of the bottom closure, so that when the bin is
supported, the closure elements can open and the bin contents can be discharged.
[0021]      An advantage of a bin according to the invention is that discharge of the
bin contents occurs centrally of the bin which is different to some prior art circular
bins, such as that described above in which a cone closes the bottom opening of the
bin. In that form of bin, the bin contents are discharged laterally from the edge of the
cone which can cause difficulties in loading hoppers or other containers into which
the bin contents are to be discharged. The present invention permits the bin
contents to vertically rather than laterally, minimising discharge of bin contents
outside of the hopper or other container.
Brief Description of the Drawings
In order that the invention may be more fully understood, some embodiments will
now be described with reference to the figures in which:
[0022]      Figures 1 to 4 illustrate prior art arrangements in relation to rectangular
bottom discharge bins.
[0023]      Figure 5 is a side cross-sectional view of a circular bottom discharge bin
according to the invention with the bin being in a closed condition.
                                               7

[0024]       Figure 6 is a perspective view of the circular bottom discharge bin of
Figure 1.
[0025]       Figure 7 is a side cross-sectional view of the circular bottom discharge bin
of Figure 1 in an open condition.
[0026]       Figure 8 is a perspective view of the circular bottom discharge bin of
Figure 7.
[0027]       Figure 9 is an illustration of a discharge facility for use with circular bottom
discharge bins according to the invention.
Detailed Description of the Drawings
[0028]       Figures 1 to 4 illustrate prior art arrangements in relation to rectangular
bottom discharge bins. In each of Figures 1 to 4, a rectangular bin 10 is shown
having side walls 11 and end walls 12. The bins 10 are open through the top and
include a bottom closure 13 that comprises a pair of closure plates 14 that pivot
along the long edges 15 of the side walls 11 between closed positions shown in
Figures 1 and 3 and open positions shown in Figures 2 and 4.
[0029]       In relation to Figures 1 and 2, a pair of struts 16 attaches at bottom ends
to each of the closure plates 14 and attaches to the end walls 12 on the outside
surface thereof at a common point at their upper ends. The connection of the upper
ends to the end walls 12 is via an arrangement that would be understood by a
person skilled in the art and therefore is not required to be described in detail herein.
[0030]       A chain 17 extends from a lifting eye 18, which is generally central
between the side and end walls 11 and 12, into engagement with the upper ends of
the struts 16. The connection and operation is such that with the chain 17 raised
fully, the struts 16 are also fully raised and draw the closure plates 14 to a closed
position as shown in Figures 1 and 3. The closure plates 14 will remain closed while
the chain 17 is raised and is supporting the weight of the bin 10 and any bin contents
within the bin 10.
[0031]       In contrast, with the chain 17 lowered, the struts 16 can also lower and
pivot to allow the closure plates 14 to open. It is to be noted that the closure plates
                                                8

14 will naturally pivot about the long edges 15 under their own weight, while that
pivoting motion will be accelerated when the bin 10 is filled with contents which bear
against the closure plates 14.
[0032]      The arrangement of Figures 3 and 4 operates in essentially the same
manner as that of Figures 1 and 2, with the exception that the chain 17 connects at
opposite ends remote from the lifting eye 18, to an elongate bar 19. At each of the
opposite ends of the bar 19, a vertical chain 20 extends into contact with the bin 10
and with the struts 16. The arrangement of Figures 3 and 4 operates in the same
manner as that of Figures 1 and 2 in terms of opening and closing of the closure
plates 14, whereby as the chains 20 are lowered with the weight of the bin
supported, the struts 16 can pivot and allow the closure plates 14 to open from a
closed position. Conversely, as the chains 20 are raised, the struts 16 will draw the
closure plates 14 back to a closed position.
[0033]      It will be evident that the bin 10 needs to be supported for the chain 17 to
be lowered to open the bottom closure 13. For this, support structures are put in
place where the bins are to be unloaded or discharged, whereby the weight of the
bin 10 and its contents can be supported independently of the chain 17 and so once
supported, lowering of the chain 17 allows the closure plates 14 to open. For this, the
upper edges of the side and end walls 11 and 12 can extend beyond the actual side
walls 11 and 12 to present a downwardly facing support surface. That is, the upper
edges 21 and 22 can form a lip or shoulder for placement or support on a suitable
supporting structure to bear the weight of the bin 10 and its contents. Such
structures are already in use in industry where the structures support a bottom
discharge bin in an elevated position so that a truck or rail wagon can be positioned
below the bin and the contents of the bin discharged into the truck or wagon.
Alternatively, such structures can be positioned over storage hoppers for example so
that the contents of the bin can be discharged into the hopper and the hopper might
then feed other processing equipment or feed a delivery conveyor for further
treatment/transport of the discharged contents.
[0034]      The arrangements of Figures 1 to 4 represent a chain operated bottom
closure 13. The arrangements can alternatively be operated by hydraulic struts,
which act on the struts 16 to cause them to shift the closure plates 14 between the
                                               9

closed and open positions shown in Figures 1 to 4. In those arrangements, a chain
17 can simply connect to the upper edges 22 of the bins 10 and lowering of the chain
is unnecessary for the bottom closure 13 to be opened and closed. Advantageously,
the use of hydraulic struts means that the bin 10 would not need to be supported to
enable the bottom closure 13 to be opened and closed, because the hydraulic struts
would operate independently of the chain 17, however, if hydraulic struts are
employed, they need to be powered on the bins themselves and this adds a further
level of complexity and expense to the bins.
[0035]      Figures 5 to 8 illustrate one form of a bottom discharge bin according to
the present invention. Figures 5 and 6 illustrate the bottom discharge bin 30 in a
closed condition, while Figures 7 and 8 illustrate the same bin 30 in an open and
discharge condition.
[0036]      The bin 30 is a circular bin that has a cylindrical wall 31, an upper circular
rim 32 and a bottom closure 33.
[0037]      The bottom closure 33 comprises a plurality of closure elements 34 that
connect to the wall 31 at the bottom end thereof (remote from the rim 32) via hinges
35. The hinges 35 allow the closure elements 34 to rotate between the closed
position shown in Figures 5 and 6 to the open position shown in Figures 7 and 8.
The arrangement of the closure elements 34 is such that in absence of a force
pulling them to the closed position, they will naturally rotate or pivot to the open
position. The contents of the bin 30 can be discharged through the bottom end of
the bin when the closure elements 34 rotate to the open position of Figures 7 and 8,
although discharge can commence immediately that the closure elements 34 rotate
or pivot away from the closed position and create an opening in the bottom end of
the bin.
[0038]      The closure elements 34 transition between the closed and open positions
via an actuator which comprises (as shown in Figures 5 and 7), a plurality of
elongate and curved connectors 38 that extend from a central tube or post 39 and
pivotally connect to the post 39. Opposite ends of the connectors 38 pivotally
connect to the closure elements 34. Pivot brackets are provided on each of the post
                                             10

39 and the closure elements 34 to which the connectors 38 connect via pivot pins or
bolts.
[0039]       It can be seen that the point of connection between the connectors 38 and
the closure elements 34 is inboard of the hinge connection between the closure
elements 34 and the wall 31. In addition, it can be seen that the opposite ends of the
connectors 38 connect at generally the central axis of the wall 31 to the bottom end
of the post 39. While the ends of the connectors 38 each connect to a different
circumferential spaced point of the post 39, the connection generally of the
connectors 38 to the post 39 is at a point which is a common connection point.
[0040]       The post 39 forms an actuator which can be lowered or raised relative to
the wall 31 and some other components of the bin 30. By raising the post 39, the
closure elements 34 adopt the closed condition of Figures 5 and 6, whereas by
lowering the post 39, the closure elements 34 adopt the open condition of Figures 7
and 8. However, lowering or raising the post 39 requires that the weight of the bin
30 is supported independently of the post 39.
[0041]       The post 39 is located within a sleeve 40 which is fixed to be coaxial with
the wall 31 via a plurality of spokes or struts 41 that extend from the external surface
of the sleeve 40 into connection with the internal surface of the wall 31. The struts
41 can be welded to the external surface of the sleeve 40 and the internal surface of
the wall 31.
[0042]       The upper end of the post 39 includes a lifting eye 42 to which a lifting ring
43 is attached for attachment to a rope, wire or chain. The rope, wire or chain can be
permanently connected to the lifting ring 43 or it can be part of a crane or hoist for
attachment to the lifting ring 43.
[0043]       Operation of the bottom discharge bin 30 will now be described. With the
bottom closure 33 in the closed position of Figures 5 and 6, the bin 30 can be loaded
with suitable payload, such as mining ore, aggregate, rocks, gravel, sand etc. The
bin 30 can be loaded with the bin seated on any generally flat surface, given that the
closure elements 34 present a flat bottom surface 45 when the bottom closure 33 is
in the closed condition. This is a preferred arrangement and in other embodiments,
the bottom surface 45 can be other than flat. Alternatively, the bin 30 can be
                                             11

suspended by a lifting medium connected to the lifting ring 43 to maintain the closure
elements 34 in the closed condition during loading of the bin 30.
[0044]       With the bin 30 loaded, the bin can be moved to a discharge location via
suspension by the lifting medium. Thus, with the lifting medium connected to the
lifting ring 43, the bin 30 can be lifted if necessary and transported. With the lifting
medium connected to the post 39, the weight of the bin 30 and its contents will act in
the opposite direction to the lifting force and that will maintain the post 39 in the
upper or elevated position of Figures 5 and 6 and will retain the bottom closure 33
closed.
[0045]       The lifting medium will be attached to a crane or hoist or the like and the
bin 30 can be shifted to a discharge position via that arrangement. Once at the
discharge position, the bin 30 can be lowered to a point at which a support structure
engages the under surface 46 (see Figures 5 and 7) of the rim 32 to support
completely the weight of the bin 30 and its contents. The bin 30 can be carefully
lowered to the support position and once the bin 30 is completely supported on the
support structure, further lowering of the lifting medium allows the post 39 to lower
within and relative to the tube 40, which allows the connectors 38 to pivot outwardly
progressively to the position shown in Figure 7. That outward pivoting movement
allows the closure elements 34 to pivot outwardly also and so the bottom closure 33
is opened via that pivoting movement. As soon as the closure elements 34
commence movement towards the open condition shown in Figures 7 and 8,
contents within the bin 30 can start to discharge through the bottom of the bin 30.
[0046]       Figure 9 illustrates an arrangement for discharge of a bottom discharge
bin according to the invention. In Figure 9, a discharge facility 50 is illustrated which
includes first and second discharge bin support structures 51 that each comprise a
front frame 52 and a rear frame 53. The respective frames 52 and 53 each have a
flared entrance section 54 and a flared exit section 55. Between the entrance and
exit sections 54 and 55 is a parallel discharge section 56 in which the parallel
members 57 of the discharge section 56 are spaced apart a distance sufficient to
engage underneath and support opposite sides of the under surface 46 of a
discharge bin 30.
                                               12

[0047]      The discharge facility 50 further includes a hopper 58 within each of the
bin support structures 51 and a conveyor mechanism that includes a first conveyor
section 59 that receives feed from the bottom of each hopper 58 and which delivers
that feed to second and third conveyor sections 60 and 61. The second and third
conveyor sections 60 and 61 feed to the freight tubs of freight vehicles 62 to 65.
[0048]      The discharge facility 50 is arranged so that discharge bins can be shifted
to a position between the pair of support structures 51, lifted upwardly to the upper
surface of the structures 51 and fed into the entrance sections 54 of the respective
structures 51. Thereafter, the bins can be shifted to a position of support within the
discharge section 56 to overlie the open upper end of a hopper 58. The lifting chain
(which is not shown in Figure 9), associated with each of the discharge bins can be
lowered to cause the bottom closure of the discharge bins to open in accordance
with the disclosure made in respect of Figures 5 to 8 herein.
[0049]      An advantage of the bin 30 is that discharge occurs centrally of the bin 30
which is different to some prior art circular bins, in which a cone closes the bottom
opening of the bin and lowering of the cone allows discharge of the contents of the
bin. However in that arrangement, discharge occurs laterally relative to the side wall
of the bin and thus the contents do not drop directly down from the bin, but rather are
projected laterally from the bin. The bin 30 is simple to operate and does not include
hydraulic struts for opening and closing the bottom closure. Where the invention is
embodied in circular bins, the orientation of the bin is not important when the bin is
loaded into a discharge facility.
[0050]      Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein
is susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described.
It is understood that the invention includes all such variations and modifications
which fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention.
[0051]      Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
"comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features,
integers, steps or components.
                                             13

[0052]      Future patent applications may be filed in Australia or overseas on the
basis of or claiming priority from the present application. It is to be understood that
the following claims are provided by way of example only, and are not intended to
limit the scope of what may be claimed in any such future application. Features may
be added to or omitted from the claims at a later date so as to further define or re
define the invention or inventions.
                                           14

    Claims
1.     A bottom discharge bin which has:
        a. an upstanding wall that defines an interior space having a top opening
           and a bottom opening, and
        b. a bottom closure that is movable between a closed condition in which the
           bottom opening is closed and an open position in which the bottom
           opening is open for discharge of bin contents through the bottom opening,
        c. an actuation arrangement cooperating with the bottom closure to shift the
           bottom closure between the closed and open conditions,
           the bottom closure comprising a plurality of closure elements that are
 connected to a bottom end of the wall and that are rotatable relative to the bottom
 end of the wall between a closed position in which the closure elements cooperate
 to form a barrier against discharge of bin contents through the bottom opening and
 an open position in which the bottom opening is open for discharge of bin contents,
           the actuation arrangement including a plurality of elongate connectors
 within the interior space, the number of connectors being at least equal to the
 number of closure elements, each closure element being connected to a first end of
 a connector inboard of the connection of the closure element to the wall and the
 opposite and second end of each connector being positioned at a generally central
 point relative to the wall which is generally common to each of the second ends of
 the connectors, an actuator connected to the second ends of the connectors, the
 actuator being lowerable relative to the wall to lower and rotate the connectors, to
 allow the closure elements to rotate from the closed position to the open position,
 and the actuator being liftable relative to the wall to lift and rotate the connectors, to
 cause the closure elements to rotate from the open position to the closed position,
 the actuator being further liftable with the wall when the closure elements are in the
 closed position, to lift the bin.
2.     A bottom discharge bin according to claim 1, the upstanding wall being a
square or rectangular wall.
                                             15

3.        A bottom discharge bin according to claim 1, the upstanding wall being a
cylindrical wall.
4.         A bottom discharge bin according to claim 3, the actuator being generally
coaxial with the cylindrical wall.
5.        A bottom discharge bin according to claim 4, the actuator being liftable
generally along the axis of the cylindrical wall.
6.        A bottom discharge bin according to claim 5, a lifting medium being employed
for lifting the actuator, the lifting medium being connected permanently to an upper
end of the actuator.
7.         A bottom discharge bin according to claim 5, a lifting medium being employed
for lifting the actuator, the lifting medium being releasably connected to an upper end
of the actuator.
8.        A bottom discharge bin according to any one of claims 3 to 7, the actuator
being a rod, collar, sleeve or tube.
9.         A bottom discharge bin according to any one of claims 3 to 8, including a
tube which is fixed within the interior space, centrally within that space along the axis
of the circular wall, the actuator being positioned within the tube for movement
relative to the upwardly or downwardly.
10.       A bottom discharge bin according to claim 9, the tube being fixed in place by
spokes or struts that extend from the internal surface of the wall to the tube.
11.       A bottom discharge bin according to any one of claims 1 to 10, the connectors
being rigid struts.
12.       A bottom discharge bin according to claim 11, the connectors connecting to
the actuator and to the closure elements pivotally.
13.       A bottom discharge bin according to claim 11 or 12, the connectors being
curved.
14.       A bottom discharge bin according to any one of claims to 10, the connectors
being flexible.
                                              16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

