                                     ABSTRACT
        Genetically modified non-human animals and methods and compositions for
making and using them are provided, wherein the genetic modification comprises a
deletion in an immunoglobulin constant region CH1 gene (optionally a deletion in a
hinge region) of an IgG, IgA, IgD, and/or IgE, and wherein the mouse is capable of
expressing a functional IgM. Genetically modified mice are described, including mice
having a functional IgM gene and modified to have a deletion of a CH1 domain and a
hinge region in a heavy chain constant domain that is not an IgM, e.g., in an IgG
heavy chain constant domain. Genetically modified mice that make human
variable/mouse constant chimeric heavy chain antibodies (antibodies that lack a light
chain), fully mouse heavy chain antibodies, or fully human heavy chain antibodies
are provided.

                        Mice that Make Heavy Chain Antibodies
The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number 2014233618, which is in turn a divisional application from Australian patent
application number 2010328046, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001]      The field of invention is genetically modified non-human animals that
make heavy chain antibodies, in particular genetically modified animals that comprise
a nucleotide sequence deletion in a sequence encoding a CH1 domain (or CH1
domain and hinge region) of an immunoglobulin gamma (IgG) gene but that are
capable of expressing an IgM that does not lack a functional CH1 domain, and in
particular mice that are capable of making wild-type IgM molecules (i.e., with CH1
domains) but that make heavy chain IgG antibodies devoid of a functional CH1
domain (or CH1 domain and hinge region).
BACKGROUND
[0002]      In most animals, normal immunoglobulin heavy chains are only well
expressed when coupled with their cognate light chains. In humans, lone heavy
chains are found in heavy chain disease that is manifested by dysfunctional heavy
chains that lack sequences of the variable heavy, the CH1, or the variable heavy and
CH1 domains. Heavy chains devoid of light chains are encountered in certain
species of fish and in camels. Such heavy chains lack a functional CH1 domain and
have non-human features in their heavy chain variable domains. Attempts have
been made to make camelized antibodies by modifying mice to express camelized
genes that mimic VHH domains found in camels or certain species of fish, in part by
removal of IgM and IgG CH1 domains and conforming the heavy chain variable
regions to resemble those of camels and/or certain species of fish. However,
camelized antibodies would be expected to induce immune responses in non-camel
animals.
[0003]      There is a need in the art for genetically modified non-human animals that
make heavy chain antibodies that have non-camelid VH domains.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0004]      Figure 1 illustrates a wild-type IgG1 locus in a mouse (IgG1, top), showing
the JH region gene segment fusing to a CH1 gene segment, followed by a hinge
                                              1

region, a CH2 gene segment, and a CH3 gene segment; an IgG1 locus targeted with
a construct that deletes a CH1 domain (IgG1 ACH1, middle); and an IgG1 locus
targeted with a construct that deletes both a CH1 domain and a hinge region
(IgGlACH1-Ahinge, bottom).
[0005]      Figure 2 illustrates targeting a mouse IgG1 gene to make a genetically
modified locus that expresses an IgG1 lacking a CH1 domain.
[0006]      Figure 3 illustrates targeting a mouse IgG1 gene to make a genetically
modified locus that expresses an IgG1 lacking a CH1 domain and lacking a hinge
region.
[0007]      Figure 4 illustrates targeting a mouse heavy chain constant region locus
to make a genetically modified locus that expresses an IgG1 lacking a CH1 domain,
and does not express an lgG2b or an IgG2a.
[0008]      Figure 5 illustrates a mouse heavy chain constant region targeted with a
construct that deletes a CH1 domain and deletes a hinge region and that deletes an
lgG2b gene and an IgG2a gene.
[0009]      Figure 6 illustrates a heavy chain constant region of a genetically modified
mouse having an IgG1 that lacks a CH1 domain or lacks a CH1 domain and a hinge
region (top), and a heavy chain constant region of a genetically modified mouse
having an IgG1 that lacks a CH1 domain or lacks a CH1 domain and a hinge region,
and that lacks an IgG2a gene and lacks an lgG2b gene (bottom).
[0010]      Figure 7 shows Western blots of CHO cell supernatants from CHO cells
engineered to independently express control (cytokine ectodomain fusion with a
mouse Fc), chimeric (human VR)/(mouse Fc) heavy chain antibody lacking a CH1
domain (hVR-mFcACH1), camelized chimeric (human VR)/(mouse Fc) heavy chain
antibody lacking a CH1 domain (hVR*-mFcACH1), chimeric (human VR)/(mouse Fc)
heavy chain antibody (hVR-mFc), camelized chimeric (human VR)/(mouse Fc) heavy
chain antibody (hVR*-mFc), mFc with (mFc) or without (mFcACH1) a CH1 domain.
[0011]      Figure 8 shows Western blot images from a reducing SDS-PAGE of
mouse sera from a wild-type mouse (left) and from a genetically modified mouse
whose IgG1 lacks a CH1 domain and lacks a hinge region (heterozygous) (right),
blotted with anti-mouse IgG; schematics of the heavy chains are provided, as are
molecular weight marker positions.
[0012]      Figure 9 shows Western blots images from a non-reducing SDS-PAGE of
mouse sera from a wild-type mouse (WT) and four genetically modified mice whose
IgG1 lacks a CH1 domain and lacks a hinge region (homozygous; noted as HO 1,
HO 2, HO 3, HO 4, respectively), blotted with anti-mouse IgG; each mouse (WT or
                                             2

HO) is represented by two lanes indicated by brackets above the lanes
corresponding to 1:5 and 1:10 dilutions of serum for each animal (consecutive lanes
from left to right for each).
[0013]       Figure 10 provides a schematic diagram of a normal IgG1 antibody (left)
and a heavy chain antibody that lacks a CH1 domain and lacks a hinge region.
[0014]       Figure 11 shows separate IgG1 and IgG2b serum immunoglobulin assays
from wild type mice (WT) and genetically modified mice that contain an IgG1 lacking
a CH1 domain and lacking a hinge region (HO; homozygous mouse that expresses a
heavy chain antibody that lacks a CH1 domain and lacks a hinge region). Control is
pooled human serum.
[0015]       Figure 12 shows the protein sequences of eleven independent RT-PCR
clones amplified from splenoctye RNA of mice bearing mouse heavy chain gene
sequences at a modified endogenous mouse heavy chain locus devoid of IgG1 CH1
and hinge region sequences. B1 = SEQ ID NO:19; B2 = SEQ ID NO:21; B3 = SEQ
ID NO:23; B5 = SEQ ID NO:25; D2 = SEQ ID NO:27; D5 = SEQ ID NO:29; D6 =
SEQ ID NO:31; E2 = SEQ ID NO:33; E8 = SEQ ID NO:35; El 0 = SEQ ID NO:37; F6
= SEQ ID NO:39. Lower case bases indicate non-germline bases resulting from
either mutation and/or N addition during recombination. Dots represent artificial gaps
in the sequence for proper alignment of framework (FR) and complementary
determining regions (CDR), which are noted above the sequences. The first nine
amino acids from the CH2 region of the endogenous IgG1 (CH2) constant region are
shown for each clone.
[0016]       Figure 13 shows the protein sequences of seven independent RT-PCR
clones amplified from splenoctye RNA of mice bearing human heavy chain gene
sequences at a modified endogenous mouse heavy chain locus devoid of an IgG1
CH1 region sequence. A8 = SEQ ID NO:51; C2 = SEQ ID NO:53; D9 = SEQ ID
NO:55; C4 = SEQ ID NO:57; H8 = SEQ ID NO:59; A5 = SEQ ID NO:61; A2 = SEQ
ID NO:63. Lower case bases indicate non-germline bases resulting from either
mutation and/or N addition during recombination. Dots represent artificial gaps in the
sequence for proper alignment of framework (FR) and complementary determining
regions (CDR), which are noted above the sequences. The first seven amino acids
of the 13 amino acid hinge region of the endogenous IgG1 (HINGE) constant region
are shown for each clone.
SUMMARY
[0017]       Genetically modified cells, non-human embryos, non-human animals and
methods and compositions for making and using them are provided, wherein the
                                             3

animals are genetically modified to lack a functional CH1 sequence in an
immunoglobulin G (IgG), optionally modified to lack a functional IgG hinge region on
the modified IgG, and wherein the cells, embryos, and animals comprise a functional
IgM CH1 sequence. In some aspects, the mice comprise a replacement of one or
more, or all, endogenous mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene
segments with one or more human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene
segments. In some aspects, all endogenous mouse V, D, and J gene segments are
replaced with one or more human V, one or more human D, and one or more human
J gene segments.
[0018]      In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided, wherein the
genetic modification comprises a modification of a nucleotide sequence encoding an
IgG constant region, wherein the modification results in a loss of function of the CH1
domain of the IgG constant region. In one embodiment, the loss of function
modification is a deletion of a nucleotide sequence encoding the CH1 domain, or a
deletion within the nucleotide sequence encoding the CH1 domain..
[0019]      In one embodiment, the IgG is selected from IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, and a
combination thereof. In one embodiment, the IgG is an IgG1. In one embodiment,
the IgG is an IgG1, an IgG2a, and an IgG2b.
[0020]      In one embodiment, the modification further comprises a deletion of a
nucleotide sequence for a hinge region of the IgG that comprises the CH1
modification.
[0021]      In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is selected from a
129 strain, a C57BL/6 strain, and a mix of 129 x C57BL/6. In a specific embodiment,
the mouse is 50% 129 and 50% C57BL/6.
[0022]      In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is a 129 strain
selected from the group consisting of a 129P1, 129P2, 129P3, 129X1, 129S1 (e.g.,
129S1/SV, 129S1/SvIm), 129S2, 129S4, 129S5, 129S9/SvEvH, 129S6
(129/SvEvTac), 129S7, 129S8, 129T1, 129T2 (see, e.g., Festing etal. (1999)
Revised nomenclature for strain 129 mice, Mammalian Genome 10:836). In one
embodiment the genetically modified mouse is a C57BL strain, in a specific
embodiment selected from C57BL/A, C57BL/An, C57BL/GrFa, C57BL/KaLwN,
C57BL/6, C57BL/6J, C57BL/6ByJ, C57BL/6NJ, C57BL/10, C57BL/1OScSn,
C57BL/1 OCr, C57BL/Ola. In a specific embodiment, the genetically modified mouse
is a mix of an aforementioned 129 strain and an aforementioned C57BL/6 strain. In
another specific embodiment, the mouse is a mix of aforementioned 129 strains, or a
mix of aforementioned BL/6 strains. In a specific embodiment, the 129 strain of the
mix is a 129S6 (129/SvEvTac) strain.
                                            4

[0023]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises one or more unrearranged
endogenous mouse heavy chain immunoglobulin variable region (mVR) gene
segments operably linked to the modified IgG constant region sequence. In one
embodiment, the one or more mVR gene segments are from a mouse VH gene
family selected from VH1, VH3, VH5, VH7, VH14, and a combination thereof. In one
embodiment, the one or more mVR gene segments are selected from a mVH 1-26,
1-42, 1-50, 1-58, 1-72, 3-6, 5-6, 7-1, 14-2, and a combination thereof.
[0024]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a rearranged gene that
encodes an FR1, FR2, and an FR3 in an IgG heavy chain that lacks a functional CH1
region, wherein the FR1, FR2, and FR3 are each independently at least 90%, 95%,
96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to an FR1, FR2, and FR3 derived from a mVH
germline sequence selected from a VH1, VH3, VH5, VH7, and VH14 gene family. In
one embodiment, the mVH germline sequence is selected from a 1-26, 1-42, 1-50, 1
58, 1-72, 3-6, 5-6,7-1, and 14-2 sequence.
[0025]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a CDR3 derived from a DH
gene segment selected from DH 1-1, 2-14, 3-1, 3-2, 3-3, 4-1, and a combination
thereof. In one embodiment, the mouse CDR3 comprises a sequence encoded by a
JH that is a JH1, JH2, JH3, or JH4.
[0026]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a rearranged antibody
sequence that encodes a CDR3 that is derived from a rearrangement of a DH 1-1, 2
14, 3-1, 3-2, 3-3, 4-1, and a JH1, JH2, JH3, or JH4.
[0027]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a rearranged gene that
encodes an FR4 in an IgG heavy chain that lacks a functional CH1 region, wherein
the FR4 is at least 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to an FR4 encoded
by a rearrangement of a DH1 -1, 2-14, 3-1, 3-2, 3-3, or 4-1 with a JH1, JH2, JH3, or
JH4.
[0028]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises an unrearranged human heavy
chain immunoglobulin variable region (hVR) gene segment at an endogenous mouse
heavy chain variable region locus. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises an
unrearranged hVR gene segment operably linked to the modified IgG constant region
sequence at an endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region locus. In one
embodiment, the hVR gene segments are from a human VH gene family selected
from VH1, VH3, VH4, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the one or
more hVR gene segments are selected from 1-2, 1-8, 1-18, 1-46, 1-69, 3-21, 3-72,
and 4-59. In a specific embodiment, the one or more hVR gene segments are
selected from 1-8, 1-18, and 1-69.
                                             5

[0029]       In one embodiment, all or substantially all mouse heavy chain V gene
segments are replaced by one or more human heavy chain V gene segments. In
one embodiment, all mouse heavy chain V and D gene segments are replaced by
one or more human heavy chain V and D gene segments. In one embodiment, all
mouse heavy chain V, D, and J gene segments are replaced with one or more
human heavy cahin V, one or more human heavy chain D, and and one or more
human heavy chain J gene segments. In these embodiments, the human heavy
chain V and/or D and/or J gene segments are at the mouse endogenous heavy chain
locus and are operably linked to the mouse constant region gene(s) or modified
mouse constant region gene(s).
[0030]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleotide sequence that
encodes a FR1, FR2, and FR3 sequence of an IgG heavy chain that lacks a
functional CH1 region, that is at least 80% identical to an FR1, FR2, and FR3 from a
human germline nucleotide sequence of a 1-8, 1-18, or 1-69 human immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region gene segment; wherein the FR1 + FR2 + FR3 sequence
of the modified mouse is optimally aligned with the recited human germline sequence
without regard to the sequence of the CDRs of the mouse and human sequences
(i.e., optimally aligning the FRs while not considering the identities of amino acids of
any CDRs in the comparison). In specific embodiments, the FR1, FR2, and FR3 are
about 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical to a human germline
nucleotide sequence of a FR1 + FR2 + FR3 of of a heavy chain variable region gene
segment that is a 1-8, 1-18, or 1-69 gene segment.
[0031]       In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises a FR4 that is at least
80% identical to a FR4 formed by a human D6-19/J6 rearrangement, a D6-7/J4
rearrangement, a D4-4/J4 rearrangement, a D6-6/J2 rearrangement, a D3-16/J6
rearrangement, a D6-6/J4 rearrangement, and a D1 -7/J4 rearrangement. In specific
embodiments, the FR4 is about 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% identical
to an FR4 formed by the aforementioned D/J rearrangement.
[0032]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding a FR1 whose amino acid sequence differs by no more than 1, no more
than 2, no more than 3, no more than 4, or no more than 5 amino acids from a FR1
encoded by a germline sequence of human heavy chain variable region gene
segment selected from V1-8, V1-18, and V1-69. In a specific embodiment, the
nucleotide sequence encoding the FR1 is a rearranged sequence operably linked to
a sequence encoding an IgG constant region that lacks a functional CH1 sequence.
[0033]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding a FR2 whose amino acid sequence differs by no more than 1, no more
                                             6

than 2, no more than 3, no more than 4, or no more than 5 amino acids from a FR2
encoded by a germline sequence of human heavy chain variable region gene
segment selected from V1-8, V1-18, and V1-69. In a specific embodiment, the
nucleotide sequence encoding the FR2 is a rearranged sequence operably linked to
a sequence encoding an IgG constant region that lacks a functional CH1 sequence.
[0034]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding a FR3 whose amino acid sequence differs by no more than 1, no more
than 2, no more than 3, no more than 4, no more than 5, no more than 6, no more
than 7, no more than 8, no more than 9, no more than 10, or no more than 11 amino
acids from a FR3 encoded by a germline sequence of human heavy chain variable
region gene segment selected from V1-8, V1-18, and V1-69. In a specific
embodiment, the nucleotide sequence encoding the FR3 is a rearranged sequence
operably linked to a sequence encoding an IgG constant region that lacks a
functional CH1 sequence.
[0035]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding a FR4 whose amino acid sequence differs by no more than 1, no more
than 2, or no more than 3 amino acids from a FR4 amino acid sequence encoded by
a rearrangement of a human D6-19/J6, a D6-7/J4, a D4-4/J4, a D6-6/J2, a D3-16/J6,
a D6-6/J4, and a D1-7/J4. In a specific embodiment, the nucleotide sequence
encoding the FR4 is a rearranged sequence operably linked to a sequence encoding
an IgG constant region that lacks a functional CH1 sequence.
[0036]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding a heavy chain CDR3 derived from a human heavy chain D region gene
segment (hDH). In one embodiment, the hDH is selected from D1-7, D3-16, D4-4,
D6-6, D6-7, and D6-19.
[0037]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding a heavy chain CDR3 derived from a human heavy chain joining gene
segment (JH). In a specific embodiment, the JH is selected from J2, J4, and J6.
[0038]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a heavy chain CDR3 encoded
by a nucleotide sequence derived from a human DH and a human JH
rearrangement. In a specific embodiment, the CDR3 is derived from a D1 -7/J4, D3
16/J6, D4-4/J4, D6-6/J2, D6-6/J4, D6-7/J4, or a D6-19/J6 rearrangement.
[0039]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a replacement of an
endogenous mVR gene segment with an hVR gene segment. In a specific
embodiment, the replacement of the mVR gene segment with the hVR gene segment
is on the same allele as the modified heavy chain constant region. In another
                                           7

specific embodiment, the replacement of the mVR gene segment with the hVR gene
segment is on a different allele than the modified heavy chain constant region.
[0040]         In one embodiment, 90-100% of mVR gene segments are replaced with
at least one hVR gene segment.         In a specific embodiment, all or substantially all of
the endogenous mVR gene segments are replaced with at least one hVR gene
segment. In one embodiment, the replacement is with at least 18, at least 39, or at
least 80 or 81 hVR gene segments. In one embodiment, the replacement is with at
least 12 functional hVR gene segments, at least 25 functional hVR gene segments,
or at least 43 functional hVR gene segments.
[0041]         In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse comprises a
transgene that comprises at least one unrearranged hVR gene segment, at least one
unrearranged human D segment, at least one unrearranged human J segment, and
at least one human heavy chain constant sequence. In one embodiment, the
endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region and kappa light chain variable
region loci are functionally silenced. In a specific embodiment, the mouse is capable
of trans-switching to produce a chimeric human/mouse antibody comprising a human
heavy chain variable domain contiguous with a mouse IgG sequence that lacks a
functional CH1 domain and, optionally, lacks a hinge region of the IgG that lacks the
functional CH1 domain. In a specific embodiment, the transgene further comprises
an IgG sequence that lacks a CH1 domain, and optionally comprises an IgM having
a functional CH1 domain. In a further specific embodiment, the IgG sequence lacks
a hinge region.
[0042]         In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a first heavy chain variable
region allele and a second heavy chain variable region allele, wherein the first allele
and the second allele are both from the same mouse strain. In one embodiment, the
first allele is from a first mouse strain and the second allele is from a second mouse
strain. In one embodiment, one allele of the first and the second alleles comprises a
replacement of an mVR with at least one hVR. In another embodiment, both alleles
comprise a replacement of an mVR with at least on hVR.
[0043]         In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided, wherein the
mouse expresses an IgM that comprises a CH1 domain, and the mouse expresses
an IgG that lacks a functional CH1 domain or that expresses an IgG that lacks both a
functional CH1 domain and that lacks a functional hinge region.
[0044]         In one embodiment, the IgG is an IgG1.
[0045]         In one embodiment, the mouse expresses four IgGs that are: a modified
IgG1 and a wild-type IgG3, IgG2a, and IgG2b. In another embodiment, the mouse
expresses no more than two IgGs that are: a modified IgG1 and a wild-type IgG3. In
                                               8

a specific embodiment the mouse expresses heavy chain isotypes that are: a wild
type IgM, a wild-type IgD, a wild-type IgG3, a modified IgG1, a wild-type IgG2a, a
wild-type IgG2b, a wild-type IgA, and a wild-type IgE. In another specific
embodiment, the mouse expresses heavy chain isotypes that are: a wild-type IgM, a
wild-type IgD, a wild-type IgG3, a modified IgG1, a wild-type IgA, and a wild-type IgE.
In variosu embodiments, the modification of the IgG1 comprises a deletion of a CH1
domain and, optionally, a deletion of a hinge region.
[0046]       In one embodiment, the mouse is from a strain selected from 129,
C56BL/6, a mixed 129 x C57BL/6.
[0047]       In one aspect, a mouse that expresses a heavy chain antibody is
provided, wherein the heavy chain antibody consists essentially of a dimeric heavy
chain, wherein the heavy chain lacks a functional CH1 domain or lacks both a
functional CH1 domain and a functional hinge region, the heavy chain comprises a
mammalian heavy chain variable domain that comprises a sequence that is not
identical to a mammalian heavy chain variable domain encoded by a germline
variable region gene, and the heavy chain comprises a human or mouse CH2
domain and a human or mouse CH3 domain, wherein the mouse expresses a wild
type human or mouse IgM.
[0048]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a functional immunoglobulin
light chain gene locus.
[0049]       In one embodiment, wherein the mammalian heavy chain variable domain
is a human or mouse heavy chain variable domain.
[0050]       In one embodiment, the heavy chain antibody consists essentially of a
dimeric heavy chain lacking a functional CH1 domain and lacking a functional hinge
region, wherein the heavy chain comprises a human variable domain that comprises
at least one somatic mutation and comprises a CH2 domain and a CH3 domain. In a
specific embodiment, the CH2 domain and the CH3 domain are independently
selected from mouse and human domains. In a specific embodiment, both the CH2
and the CH3 domain are human; in another embodiment, both the CH2 and the CH3
domain are mouse.
[0051]       In one aspect, a heavy chain antibody is provided, wherein the heavy
chain antibody comprises a heavy chain comprising a non-camelid variable domain
and a heavy chain constant region lacking a CH1 domain.
[0052]       In one embodiment, the heavy chain antibody further lacks a hinge region.
[0053]       In one embodiment, the heavy chain antibody comprises a constant
region that consists essentially of a hinge region, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain.
                                            9

In another embodiment, the heavy chain antibody comprises a constant region that
consists essentially of a CH2 domain and a CH3 domain.
[0054]      In one embodiment, the non-camelid variable domain is a somatically
mutated human or mouse heavy chain variable domain obtained from an IgM- or an
IgG-encoding nucleotide sequence of a B cell from a mouse or a genetically modified
mouse comprising a human heavy chain variable region gene segment. In a specific
embodiment, the mouse comprises a humanized heavy chain variable region gene
segment. In another embodiment, the mouse comprises a replacement of the
endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene segment locus with at least
one human variable region gene segment. In another embodiment, the mouse
comprises a replacement of the endogenous mouse heavy chain locus with at least
one human variable gene segment, at least one human D gene segment, and at
least one human J gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin variable region locus is all or substantially all replaced with a human
immunoglobulin variable region locus comprising a plurality of human V, D, and J
gene segments.
[0055]      In one embodiment, the non-camelid variable domain is a human or a
mouse variable domain. In another embodiment, the non-camelid variable domain is
a human or a mouse variable domain comprising one or more camelizing
modifications. In a specific embodiment, the camelizing modification is selected from
Li1 S, V37F, G44E, L45C, L45R, and W47G (Kabat numbering). In a specific
embodiment, the camelizing modification is selected from V37F, G44E, and L45C. In
a specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain comprises a
complementarity determining region 3 (CDR3) that comprises two cysteines.
[0056]      In one embodiment, the heavy chain antibody comprises a dimer of a first
heavy chain comprising a first heavy chain variable domain and a second heavy
chain comprising a second heavy chain variable domain, wherein each of the first
and the second heavy chains lacks a CH1 domain (or lacks a CH1 domain and a
hinge region). In one embodiment, the human variable domain of the first heavy
chain of the dimer binds a first epitope, and the human variable domain of the
second heavy chain of the dimer binds a second epitope, wherein the first and the
second epitope are not identical. In a specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable
domains of the first and the second heavy chains comprise human heavy chain
variable domains and/or human heavy chain FR regions as described herein.
[0057]      In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human cell is provided, wherein
the genetic modification comprises a deletion of an IgG CH1 domain and the cell
                                            10

expresses a functional IgM. In a specific embodiment, the cell comprises an IgM
gene comprising a sequence encoding a CH1 domain.
[0058]       In one embodiment, the cell is selected from a non-human ES cell, a
pluripotent cell, and a totipotent cell. In a specific embodiment, the non-human ES
cell is selected from a mouse ES cell and a rat ES cell.
[0059]       In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human embryo is provided,
wherein the genetic modification comprises a modification as described herein. In
one embodiment, the genetic modification comprises a deletion of an IgG CH1
domain and the non-human embryo expresses a functional IgM. In a specific
embodiment, the non-human embryo comprises an IgM gene comprising a CH1
domain.
[0060]       In one embodiment, the non-human embryo is a mouse embryo or a rat
embryo.
[0061]       In one aspect, a non-human embryo comprising a donor cell is provided,
wherein the donor cell is genetically modified, and wherein the genetic modification is
a modification as described herein. In one embodiment, the genetic modification
comprises a deletion of an IgG CH1 domain and the cell comprises an IgM gene
comprising a CH1 domain.
[0062]       In one embodiment, the non-human embryo is a mouse embryo or a rat
embryo, and the donor cell is a mouse ES cell or a rat ES cell, respectively.
[0063]       In one aspect, a DNA construct is provided, wherein the DNA construct
comprises (a) a mouse homology arm homologous to a first sequence 5' and
immediately adjacent to the start of an IgG CH1 region; (b) a marker or drug
selection cassette; and, (c) a homology arm homologous to a second sequence 3'
and immediately adjacent to the end of an IgG CH1 region or, alternatively, a
homology arm homologous to a second sequence 3' and immediately adjacent to the
end of an IgG hinge region.
[0064]       In one aspect, a method for making an antibody that lacks a CH1 domain
is provided, comprising: (a) immunizing a non-human animal as described herein that
lacks a functional CH1 domain in an IgG or lacks a functional CH1 domain and lacks
a functional hinge region in the IgG, wherein the mouse expresses an IgM that
comprises a functional CH1 domain; (b) maintaining the non-human animal under
conditions sufficient for the non-human animal to make an antibody; (c) identifying an
antibody made by the mouse that lacks a functional CH1 domain or that lacks a
functional hinge region; and, (d) isolating from the mouse the antibody, a cell that
makes the antibody, or a nucleotide sequence that encodes a sequence of the
antibody.
                                              11

[0065]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a functional
immunoglobulin light chain gene locus.
[0066]      In one aspect, a method for humanizing a mouse heavy chain antibody is
provided, comprising immunizing a genetically modified mouse that makes heavy
chain antibodies with an antigen of interest, allowing the mouse to mount an immune
response, identifying a mouse VH region of the mouse that is encoded in a B cell of
the mouse, wherein the B cell specifically binds the antigen of interest, and
humanizing the VH region.
[0067]      In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse that makes heavy
chain antibodies is a mouse as described herein. In one embodiment, the mouse
comprises at least one mVR gene segment operably linked to a heavy chain
constant locus that comprises an intact IgM gene and that comprises an IgG gene
that lacks a CH1 domain or that lacks a CH1 domain and lacks a hinge domain. In
one embodiment, the IgG gene is an IgG1 gene. In one embodiment, the IgG gene
is selected from IgG1, IgG2A, IgG2B, IgG3, and a combination thereof.
[0068]      In one embodiment, the method further comprises cloning a nucleotide
sequence encoding the humanized VH region onto a nucleotide sequence of a
human immunoglobulin constant region.
[0069]      In one embodiment, the mouse mVR gene segment is from a mouse VH
gene family selected from VH1 and VH14, and the humanization comprises replacing
a mouse framework of VH1 or VH14 with a framework from a human VH1 gene. In
one embodiment, the human VH1 gene is selected from 1-2, 1-3, 1-8, 1-17, 1-18, 1
24, 1-45, 1-46, 1-58, and 1-69. In specific embodiments, the mVR gene is a 1-58
gene and the human gene is a 1-18 gene; the mVR gene is a 1-26 gene and the
human gene is a 1-2 gene; the mVR gene is a 1-50 gene and the human gene is a 1
46 gene; the mVR gene is a 1-17 gene and the human gene is a 1-2 gene; the mVR
gene is a 1-42 gene and the human gene is a 1-2 gene; the mVR is a 14-1 gene and
the human gene is a 1-2 gene; or the mVR is a 14-2 gene and the human gene is a
1-2 gene.
[0070]      In one embodiment, the mVR gene segment is from a mouse VH gene
selected from a VH4, VH5, VH6, VH7, VH1 0, VH1 1, and VH1 3 gene, and the
humanization comprises replacing a mouse framework with a framework from a
human VH3 gene. In one embodiment, the human VH3 gene is selected from 3-7, 3
9, 3-11,3-13, 3-15, 3-16, 3-20, 3-21,3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-35, 3-38,3-43, 3-48, 3-49,
3-53, 3-64, 3-66, 3-72, 3-73, and 3-74. In a specific embodiment, the mVR gene is a
7-1 gene and the human gene is a 3-72 gene; the mVR gene is a 3-6 gene and the
                                           12

human gene is a 4-59 gene; the mVR gene is a 5-6 gene and the human gene is a 3
21 gene.
[0071]      In one embodiment, the mVR gene segment is from a mouse VH gene
family selected from VH3 and VH12, and the humanization comprises replacing a
mouse framework with a framework from a human VH4 gene. In one embodiment,
the human VH4 gene is selected from 4-4, 4-28, 4-31, 4-34, 4-39, 4-59, and 4-61.
[0072]      In one embodiment, the mVR gene segment is from a mouse VH4 gene
family, and the humanization comprises replacing a mouse VH4 framework with a
framework from a human VH6 gene. In one embodiment, the human VH6 gene is 6
1.
[0073]      In one embodiment, the mVR gene segment is from a mouse VH9 gene
family, and the humanization comprises replacing a mouse VH9 framework with a
framework from a human VH gene of the human VH7 family. In one embodiment,
the human VH gene is selected from 7-4-1 and 7-81.
[0074]      In one embodiment, the humanization further comprises making one or
more conservative or non-conservative substitutions, one or more deletions, and/or
one or more insertions in a mouse CDR such that the mouse CDR corresponds more
closely to a human CDR.
[0075]      In one embodiment, the humanization further comprises making one or
more conservative or nonconservative substitutions, one or more deletions, and/or
one or more insertions in a human framework such that the human framework
corresponds more closely to the mouse framework.
[0076]      In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that comprises a
functional immunoglobulin light chain gene, wherein the mouse expresses a heavy
chain antibody that lacks a light chain and that lacks a CH1 region or that lacks a
CH1 region and a hinge region.
[0077]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises an immunoglobulin gene that
lacks a sequence encoding a CH1 region, or lacks a sequence encoding a hinge and
a CH1 region. In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin gene that lacks the
sequence is one or more heavy chain constant genes. In a specific embodiment, the
immunoglobulin gene that lacks the sequence is selected from an IgG1, IgG2a,
IgG2b, and IgG3 gene. In a specific embodiment, the mouse comprises an IgM gene
with a CH1 region, and/or a hinge region, and/or a CH1 region and hinge region.
[0078]      In one embodiment, the antibody is expressed in response to an antigen,
and the antibody specifically binds the antigen.
                                           13

[0079]       In one embodiment, the antibody comprises a mouse VH domain. In a
specific embodiment, the mouse VH domain comprises a mouse VH gene segment
selected from 1-26, 1-42, 1-50, 1-58, 1-72, 3-6, 5-6, 7-1, 14-1, and 14-2.
[0080]       In one embodiment, the antibody comprises a human VH domain. In a
specific embodiment, the human VH domain comprises a sequence derived from a
human VH gene segment selected from 1-2, 1-18, 1-46, 3-21, 3-72, and 4-59.
[0081]       In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that expresses a
binding protein that consists essentially of two IgG1 heavy chains that each lack a
CH1 domain, wherein the mouse expresses an IgM that comprises a CH1 region,
and wherein the mouse is incapable of expressing from its genome an mRNA that
comprises a nucleotide sequence encoding a CH1 domain of an IgG1.
[0082]       In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin heavy chains that each lack a
CH1 domain consist essentially of, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a human or mouse
heavy chain immunoglobulin variable region, optionally a hinge region, a mouse CH2
region, and a mouse CH3 region. In a specific embodiment, the heavy chain
immunoglobulin variable region is a human variable region, a hinge region is present,
and the mouse comprises a functional immunoglobulin light chain gene locus.
[0083]       In one aspect, a mouse is provided that expresses a heavy chain antibody
that lacks a light chain and that lacks a CH1 region in whole or in part, wherein the
mouse expresses a B cell receptor on a B cell, wherein the B cell receptor on its
surface displays a binding molecule that comprises an immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable domain fused directly to an immunoglobulin hinge region or fused directly to
a CH2 region, wherein the binding molecule lacks a CH1 region. In one
embodiment, the binding molecule comprises an IgG1 CH2 and CH3 region.
[0084]       In one aspect, a method for making a heavy chain antibody is provided,
comprising immunizing a mouse with an antigen of interest, wherein the mouse
comprises an IgG gene that lacks a sequence encoding a CH1 region, wherein the
mouse comprises an intact IgM constant region gene, allowing the mouse to mount
an immune response against the antigen of interest, and isolating from the mouse a
cell or protein that specifically recognizes the antigen of interest, wherein the cell or
protein comprises a heavy chain antibody that lacks a CH1 domain and that lacks a
cognate light chain and that specifically binds the antigen of interest.
[0085]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a functional light chain gene.
In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a functional light chain gene selected from
lambda, kappa, and a combination thereof.
                                             14

[0086]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all mouse heavy chain V, D, J gene segments with one or more human
V, D, J gene segments.
[0087]       In one embodiment, the IgG gene that lacks the sequence encoding a
CH1 is selected from an IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3, and a combination thereof.
[0088]       In one embodiment, the IgG gene that lacks the CH1 sequence is IgG1,
and the mouse lacks a gene encoding IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3, or a combination thereof.
In one embodiment, the IgG gene that lacks the CH1 sequence is IgG2a, and the
mouse lacks a gene encoding IgG1, IgG2b, IgG3, or a combination thereof. In one
embodiment, the IgG gene that lacks the CH1 sequence is IgG2b, and the mouse
lacks a gene encoding IgG1, IgG2a, IgG3, or a combination thereof. In one
embodiment, the IgG gene that lacks the CH1 sequence is IgG3, and the mouse
lacks a gene encoding IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, or a combination thereof.
[0089]       In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a B cell that bears on its
surface a B cell receptor, wherein the B cell receptor comprises a rearranged heavy
chain VDJ that binds the antigen of interest, and wherein the B cell receptor
comprises an IgM that comprises a CH1 region, and wherein the IgM comprises a
light chain. In one embodiment, the light chain is VJ rearranged. In a specific
embodiment, the light chain is a kappa or a lambda light chain that is cognate with
the rearranged heavy chain VDJ that binds the antigen of interest.
[0090]       In one aspect, a mouse heavy chain antibody, human heavy chain
antibody, or chimeric human/mouse heavy chain antibody made in a mouse
according to the invention is provided.
[0091]       In one aspect, a mouse heavy chain antibody, human heavy chain
antibody, chimeric human/mouse heavy chain antibody, or humanized heavy chain
antibody made using a heavy chain variable region nucleotide sequence or fragment
thereof made in a mouse according to the invention is provided.
[0092]       Other embodiments are described and will become apparent to those
skilled in the art from a review of the ensuing detailed description.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0093]       The invention is not limited to particular methods, and experimental
conditions described, as such methods and conditions may vary. The terminology
used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not
intended to be limiting, since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by
the claims.
                                             15

[0094]       Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
have the same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art
to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or
equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the
present invention, particular methods and materials are now described. All
publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
CH1 Domains and Antibody Production
[0095]       Genetically modified non-human animals are provided that make
antibodies that lack a CH1 domain, including heavy chain antibodies, i.e., antibodies
that lack light chains. The genetically modified non-human animals comprise a
genetic modification that includes a lack of a functional immunoglobulin heavy chain
domain (a CH1 domain), e.g., an IgG1 CH1 domain, and in some embodiments a
further modification comprising a deletion of a hinge region in the immunoglobulin
heavy chain that lacks the functional CH1 domain, wherein the non-human animal
expresses a functional IgM. Other modifications include rendering isotypes other
than IgG1 and IgM to be nonfunctional, e.g., making deletions in genes, or deletions
of genes, for IgD, IgG3, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgA, and IgE. Genetically modified non
human embryos, cells, and targeting constructs for making the non-human animals,
non-human embryos, and cells are also provided.
[0096]       Efforts at making genetically modified cells that can make heavy chain
antibodies (i.e., antibodies that lack a light chain) have focused on mimicking heavy
chain antibodies in other species, e.g., in camelids and certain fish. This approach
has been used to genetically modify a mouse ES cell to delete CH1 domains in
immunoglobulin constant region genes of IgMs and IgGs, and also to introduce
heavy chain variable regions into the ES cell that are camelid, or camelized (i.e.,
VHH or VHH-like). The deletion of IgM and IgG CH1 domains is undertaken
presumably to prevent formation of endogenous, natural antibodies to compete with
camelized antibody formation from a genetically modified locus. The addition of VHH
gene segments is undertaken presumably to mimic heavy chain antibody formation
in combination with the CH1 deletion. Heavy chain antibodies from such animals will
contain the VHH gene segment. VHH gene segments are presumably thought to be
necessary for the proper expression of a heavy chain antibody, since in vitro studies
indicate that non-camelid VH domains do not satisfactorily form expressible heavy
chain antibodies when present in heavy chains lacking a CH1 domain.
[0097]       In camelids, however (and in some cartilaginous fish), genes are present
that include CH1 domains, or CH1-like domains. VHH-containing antibodies that
                                              16

lack CH1 domains are believed to result from RNA splicing or from rearrangement of
DNA sequences that can encode a CH1 region. Thus, even camelids have retained
DNA sequences encoding CH1 regions. Because humans (under some
circumstances) can make heavy chain antibodies lacking a CH1 region in whole or in
part (e.g., in human heavy chain disease), it might be possible to compel non
camelids, such as mice, to form heavy chains lacking a CH1 region under a given set
of circumstances. This approach relies upon not disturbing the germline structure of
a CH, but instead rendering the animal's light chain locus nonfunctional. This
approach assumes that with a nonfunctional light chain locus those heavy chains that
require a cognate light chain for expression (e.g., full-length heavy chains having
CH1 regions) are not made due to the lack of any kappa or lambda light chain, such
that only those heavy chains that can express and secrete without a light chain (i.e.,
heavy chains lacking a CH1 region) will be expressed and secreted. The approach
relies upon the absence of functional kappa or lambda gene segments that can
rearrange to form a functional light chain gene, and on the absence of any functional
rearranged light chain gene, and thus requires a genetic manipulation (e.g., a
knockout) to destroy functionality of both germline light chain loci. The approach
relies upon "natural" processes leading to non-use of the endogenous CH1
nucleotide sequence, and that the "natural" process of CH1 silencing occurs in class
switching. There does not appear to be any possibility of using such a process in
any animal that contains a functional light chain gene. Furthermore, it appears that
the "natural" process includes the synthesis of large amounts of normal RNA, i.e.,
RNA that includes a region encoding a CH1 region.
[0098]       Compositions and methods are provided for making a mouse that makes
an antibody that lacks an immunoglobulin CH1 domain (and optionally a hinge
region), including heavy chain antibodies, and including antibodies that comprise VH
domains (e.g., mouse or human VH domains). The methods include selectively
rendering an endogenous non-IgM CH1 region to be nonfunctional (e.g., by a
deletion of a sequence of a CH1 domain), and employing either unrearranged
endogenous mouse variable region (mVR) gene segments or unrearranged human
variable region (hVR) gene segments at the endogenous mouse variable region
locus to make a chimeric human/mouse antibody in a mouse. The deletion of the
CH1 domain is made in one or more IgG genes, but not in an IgM gene. The
approach selectively renders one or more IgG CH1 domains nonfunctional while
retaining a functional IgM. In addition to a deletion of the one or more IgG CH1
domains, a further embodiment provides for deleting or rendering nonfunctional the
                                            17

hinge region of the IgG(s) in which the CH1 domain is deleted or rendered
nonfunctional.
[0099]      The IgG CH1 deletion approach employs a relatively conservative
disruption in natural B cell development in the animal, because not all Ig isotypes of
the genetically modified non-human animal will exhibit a nonfunctional CH1 or a
deletion of the CH1 domain (and, optionally, hinge). Thus, the CH1 modification
does not occur in IgM molecules and thus does not affect those steps in early B cell
development that depend on an IgM having a functional CH1. Because the IgM is
not modified, animals bearing one or more deletions of the CH1 domain of an IgG
(and optionally a hinge region of the IgG), but not an the CH1 domain of an IgM,
should be able to process a satisfactorily large repertoire of variable regions in clonal
selection steps prior to presentation of the variable domain in the context of an IgG.
Thus in various embodiments, any deleterious affect of the genetic modification(s) on
the diversity of variable regions available for use in a heavy chain antibody should
not negatively impact the pool of variable regions available for selection in an IgG
context. Further, where the CH1 sequence that is rendered nonfunctional (e.g.,
deleted) in the germline is an IgG1, the mouse will lack the ability to make any RNA
that encodes a CH1 domain.
[0100]      Genetically modifying a non-human animal to render a CH1 domain or a
CH1 domain and a hinge region of one or more IgG isotypes nonfunctional may
result in a mouse that is able to select, from a full or substantially full repertoire of VH
regions, a suitable VH region to express in a heavy chain antibody. Selectively
modifying IgG isotypes (but not IgM) avoids a potential reduction in the number of VH
regions that survive selection due to a lack of a CH1 domain or a lack of a CH1
domain in IgM. Thus, a fuller repertoire of VH regions is available for selection in the
context of an IgG (that lacks a CH1 domain or that lacks a CH1 domain and that
lacks a hinge region). Thus, selection of a VH domain in a genetically modified
mouse in accordance with the invention does not depend, e.g., on which VH domain
might help overcome early IgM-dependent B cell developmental hurdles that are due
to modified IgM structures. Instead, early IgM-dependent steps should occur as
normal, resulting in a large repertoire of heavy chains available for selection as to
their suitability to express in the context of an IgG that lacks a CH1 domain or that
lacks a CH1 domain and lacks a hinge region.
[0101]      Thus, in various embodiments, a genetically modified mouse in
accordance with the invention should maintain functional IgM expression, which
should provide an opportunity for a more natural clonal selection process. For
example, with a functional IgM (e.g., an IgM that does not lack a CH1 domain), both
                                              18

surrogate light chain and the cognate light chain will be able to associate through the
IgM's CH1 domain and participate in selection processes in early B cell development.
In a genetically modified mouse in accordance with the invention, it is believed that
class switching to an IgG isotype is the first selection step where any selection of
heavy chain variable domains that can be expressed in the context of a constant
domain lacking a functional CH1 domain or lacking a functional CH1 domain and a
functional hinge is encountered.
IgM in B Cell Development
[0102]      Although observations in camelids, certain fish, and in pathological
conditions reveal that under some circumstances an antibody that lacks a CH1
domain of its heavy chain constant region can be expressed in the absence of a
cognate light chain, normal development of antibody-producing B cells generally
requires the presence of a CH1 domain. All heavy chain isotypes, including IgM,
comprise a CH1 domain. Both the surrogate light chain and a cognate light chain are
believed to interact with a given heavy chain through the heavy chain's CH1 domain
in the context of an IgM. To the extent that development of heavy chain antibodies
depends upon structural integrity or functionality of an IgM isotype heavy chain,
disruption of the IgM's structural integrity or function would be undesirable.
[0103]       Normal development of antibodies requires that antibodies survive
throughout a multiplicity of complex selection schemes that result in the survival and
ultimate expression of functional and useful antibodies. Disruptions in antibody
structure can prove deleterious to the survival and ultimate expression of an antibody
to the extent that the structural disruption results in the inability of the antibody to
effectively compete and evolve to the satisfaction of one or more of nature's antibody
selection schemes.
[0104]       Early in antibody development, antibody heavy chains undergo a
selection process wherein nature chooses, through a variety of selection schemes,
suitable heavy chains to undergo further selection to eventually form functional and
affinity-matured antibodies. Antibody heavy chains expressed from recombined
heavy chain gene segments in progenitor B cells (or, pro-B cells) are normally paired
with a surrogate light chain for presentation on the surface of the pro-B cell in an IgM
isotype to form a structure (which includes other co-receptors) referred to as a pre-B
cell receptor, or pre-BCR. Once the pre-BCR is presented on the cell surface, the
pre-BCR is believed to signal its appropriate formation of the complex to the cell,
effectively instructing the cell that the heavy chain has passed this early selection
step. Thus the cell is informed that the heavy chain may undergo further selection. If
                                             19

the heavy chain contains a defect that is deleterious to the formation of a pre-BCR
when presented in the context of an IgM and a surrogate light chain, the cell will
undergo apoptosis. If the cell undergoes apoptosis, the usefulness, or contribution to
diversity, of the heavy chain variable region of the heavy chain will be lost. Thus, a
very early step in antibody selection requires presentation of the heavy chain
together with a surrogate light chain in the context of an IgM isotype. The surrogate
light chain is believed to interact with IgM at least in part through IgM's CH1 domain.
A failure or disruption in antibody structure at this early juncture (e.g., a nonfunctional
CH1 domain) can result in clonal selection failure, loss of the pro-B cell that
expresses the heavy chain, and loss of the possibility of employing the particular
heavy chain variable domain in a useful antibody.
[0105]       Once the cell bearing the pre-BCR passes this selection step, the next
selection step requires that the heavy chain be paired with a cognate light chain
(e.g., either kappa or lambda in mice and humans). The paired heavy chain/cognate
light chain structure is again presented on the surface of the cell, now a naive pre-B
cell, in the context of an IgM isotype through the IgM's CH1 domain. This complex
on the surface results in a functional, membrane-bound, B cell receptor (BCR). This
BCR is believed to signal to the cell that the heavy chain is suitable for further
selection, and that the cell may now commit to expressing this particular light chain
and proceed to further B cell maturation steps, including affinity maturation and class
switching. If the heavy chain contains a defect that is deleterious to the formation of
a BCR when presented in the context of an IgM and its cognate light chain, the cell
will undergo apoptosis. If the cell undergoes apoptosis, the usefulness, or
contribution to diversity, of the heavy chain variable region of the heavy chain will be
lost. Thus, a very early step in antibody selection requires presentation of the heavy
chain together with a surrogate light chain in the context of an IgM isotype. Again, a
failure or disruption in antibody structure (e.g., a non-functional CH1 domain) at this
early juncture can result in clonal selection failure and concomitant loss of the pre-B
cell that expresses the heavy chain.
[0106]       Having survived selection thus far, the pre-B cell that presents the heavy
chain paired with its cognate light chain in the IgM context then undergoes a
maturation process that ultimately results in class switching and further selection
mechanisms in which the heavy chain and cognate light chain are presented on the
B cell surface in the context of an IgG isotype. It would be at this step that any
selection of IgG heavy chains that lack a CH1 domain or that lack a CH1 domain and
a hinge region would occur. In animals according to the invention, it is believed that
a normal repertoire of heavy chain variable regions would be available for selection
                                             20

based upon whether the variable domain would survive to be expressed in an IgG
heavy chain that lacks a CH1 domain or that lacks a CH1 domain and a hinge region.
In contrast, mice that have impaired IgMs would likely not present a full repertoire of
heavy chain variable regions, since only those variable regions capable of surviving
selection in the context of an impaired IgM would be available for class switching.
[0107]      Thus, an animal lacking a functional IgM may experience a marked
reduction in the ability to make a B cell population following rearrangement of
otherwise suitable heavy chain variable gene segments. In such a case, even where
an ample supply of heavy chain variable regions is available (i.e., the animal has a
suitable number of heavy chain variable region gene segments capable of
rearranging), a satisfactory population of B cells that display a desirable degree of
diversity may not form because of an IgM impairment that mitigates against survival
of a heavy chain during the selection process.
Heavy Chain Antibody Production with a Functional IgM Gene
[0108]      A suitable number of rearranged heavy chain variable regions that can
effectively survive selection when presented during B cell development in the context
of an IgM is desirable to be maintained in order to generate sufficient diversity to
make antibodies by immunizing a non-human animal with an immunogen of interest.
Thus, a genetically modified non-human animal that comprises a nonfunctional CH1
domain or a nonfunctional CH1 domain and a nonfunctional hinge region in an
immunoglobulin heavy chain should not comprise a CH1 deletion in both IgM alleles.
[0109]       In some embodiments, it is not desirable to delete CH1 domains of all Ig
isotypes in order to make a heavy chain antibody in a genetically modified animal.
Thus, methods and compositions are provided for making a heavy chain antibody in
a genetically modified non-human animal by disabling, deleting, or otherwise
rendering non-functional a nucleotide sequence encoding a CH1 domain or fragment
thereof of an IgG (and in some embodiments also disabling, deleting, or otherwise
rendering nonfunctional a hinge region of the IgG) while allowing other isotypes (e.g.,
IgM) to retain functional CH1 domains. It is believed that functionality of other
isotype CH1 domains (other than one or more selected IgG CH1 domains) results in
a B cell development process that does not disrupt or substantially disrupt
developmental steps in which the heavy chain variable domain is presented in the
context of a non-IgG isotype, e.g., in an IgM isotype. Thus disruption of, e.g., IgM
dependent steps during B cell development is relatively minimized. Without limitation
as to the invention (which is described by the claims) the inventors propose that
minimalizing disruption of early selection steps associated with presentation of the
                                            21

heavy chain variable domain in an IgM context will result in more cells that bear the
heavy chain variable regions surviving to undergo class-switching to an IgG isotype
and selection in the context of an IgG that lacks a functional CH1 domain or that
lacks a functional CH1 domain and lacks a functional hinge region.
[0110]       Accordingly, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, along
with methods and compositions for making the animal, wherein the genetic
modification results in lack of a functional CH1 domain (in a further embodiment lack
of a functional hinge region) in an Ig domain that is not an IgM domain. In various
embodiments, a sequence encoding CH1 or the CH1 and the hinge region (or a
substantially functional portion thereof) are deleted in the genome of the genetically
modified animal. The genetically modified non-human animal is useful in making
heavy chain antibodies (i.e., antibodies that lack a light chain), including fully human
antibodies (in a mouse genetically modified to include human immunoglobulin genes)
and chimeric human/mouse antibodies (e.g., in a mouse genetically modified to
include human variable region gene segments, D regions, and J regions, or in a
mouse having a human transgene capable of trans-switching to a genetically
modified IgG isotype that lacks a functional CH1 domain or that lacks a functional
CH1 domain and lacks a functional hinge region).
Heavy Chain Antibodies
[0111]       Antibodies are useful as human therapeutics. Heavy chain antibodies,
i.e., antibodies that lack a light chain, are also useful as human therapeutics.
Because heavy chain antibodies lack a light chain, they are smaller and thus
expected to exhibit better tissue penetration than antibodies that contain light chains,
yet have a similar or more favorable pharmacokinetic profile and yet retain similar
effector function as compared to a conventional antibody. Because they are smaller,
heavy chain antibodies are also capable of administration at a higher dose in a given
volume. A frequent method of administering antibodies is by subcutaneous injection,
and a reduction in administration volume for a given dosage of antibody can provide
benefits to patients and avoid complications and pain due to subcutaneous injections
of large volumes.
[0112]       Another advantage of heavy chain antibodies is the ability to make
bispecific antibodies by heterodimerizing heavy chains with specificity for two
different epitopes in a single therapeutics. Because heavy chain antibodies lack a
light chain, they are particularly suited for making bispecific antibodies since there is
no requirement to engineer a common light chain that would not interfere with
                                              22

binding affinity or specificity of either heavy chain but also enable suitable expression
of the bispecific antibody.
[0113]      The genetically modified animals of the invention can be used to make a
wide variety of heavy chain antibodies. The genetic modifications described herein
can be made, e.g., in any suitable mouse strain. The mouse strain can have any
genetic background suitable for making a heavy chain antibody of choice. Some
genetic backgrounds that encompass particular embodiments are provided below.
[0114]      The genetically modified animal can be a mouse comprising a genetic
modification in accordance with the invention and one or more unrearranged human
variable region gene segments, one or more unrearranged D region gene segments,
and one or more unrearranged J region gene segments replacing an endogenous
mouse heavy chain variable region locus. In such a mouse, the humanized variable
region locus is capable of recombining to form a rearranged variable region gene
upstream of endogenous mouse constant domain sequences (wherein one or more
of the immunoglobulin constant region genes is modified as described herein). The
mouse would thus be capable of making a chimeric human variable/mouse constant
heavy chain antibody. Upon exposure to an immunogen of interest, the mouse
would be capable of generating a heavy chain antibody in accordance with the
invention that is affinity matured and capable of specifically binding an epitope of the
immunogen of interest.
[0115]      The genetically modified animal can be a mouse comprising an
endogenous mouse variable region that includes unrearranged endogenous mouse
variable region gene segments, unrearranged endogenous mouse D region gene
segments, and unrearranged endogenous mouse J region gene segments, wherein
the mouse comprises a genetic modification of a mouse heavy chain constant region
as described herein. The mouse would thus be capable of making a mouse heavy
chain antibody. Upon exposure to an immunogen of interest, the mouse would be
capable of generating a heavy chain antibody in accordance with the invention that is
affinity matured and capable of specifically binding an epitope of the immunogen of
interest.
[0116]      The genetically modified animal can be a mouse comprising a human
transgene that comprises unrearranged human variable region gene segments,
unrearranged human D gene segments, and unrearranged human J gene segments,
a mu gene, and a sequence that allows for trans-switching. The mouse would further
comprise a mouse heavy chain constant region modification as described herein.
The mouse would be thus capable of making a fully human IgM antibody, and
through trans-switching a chimeric human variable/mouse constant antibody,
                                              23

wherein the constant domain comprises a genetic modification as described herein.
Upon exposure to an immunogen of interest, the mouse would be capable of
generating a heavy chain antibody in accordance with the invention that is affinity
matured and capable of specifically binding an epitope of the immunogen of interest.
In vitro Expression of Heavy Chain Antibodies
[0117]      The inventors have established that a normal human or mouse heavy
chain variable region (hVR or mVR) can be expressed in an in vitro system in the
context of an IgG that lacks a functional CH1 domain. The inventors expressed an
hVR from an unrearranged hVR minilocus in a mouse with a wild-type mouse IgM.
The expressed hVR was cloned onto an IgG2b lacking a CH1 domain, and the
resulting hVR-IgG2bACH1 expressed and was secreted by a CHO cell transiently
transfected with the hVR-IgG2bACH1 construct, effectively establishing that an hVR
selected in a mouse having a wild-type IgM can be expressed and secreted by a cell
when switched to an IgG lacking a functional CH1 domain, i.e., as a heavy chain
antibody.
[0118]      The inventors constructed an in vitro system to express heavy chains that
lack CH1 domains and that have hVRs or human camelized VRs (hVR*s) in CHO
cells. The VRs were obtained from a RAG mouse that contained a replacement of
the endogenous mouse heavy chain locus with a human heavy chain variable region
minilocus (having three human V region gene segments, 6-1, 1-2, and 1-3, all human
DH gene segments, and all human JH gene segments). The endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin kappa and lambda light chain loci were intact and functional.
[0119]      Chimeric heavy chain (hVR-mFc) and camelized heavy chain (hVR*-mFc)
constructs were made, for expression in CHO cells, using the VR sequences
obtained from the mouse bearing the minilocus described above. The chimeric
heavy chains were the product of normal V-D-J recombination during B cell
development in the mouse to form a functional antibody comprising a chimeric heavy
chain (hVR-mFc) and a mouse light chain. hVR-mFc and hVR*-mFc constructs
were made both having a CH1 domain and lacking a CH1 domain.
[0120]      Transient transfection of hVR-mFc and hcVR-mFc constructs in CHO
cells showed that in the absence of a CH1 domain, heavy chains having hVRs and
hVR*s were expressed and remained soluble in the supernatant. In the presence of
a CH1 domain, heavy chains containing either hVRs or hVR*s did not express in
supernatant. This observation suggested that such heavy chain antibodies could be
                                           24

made without employing camelid VHH domains, e.g., with human or mouse VH
domains, in heavy chain antibodies that lacked a CH1 domain.
Humanized Heavy Chain Antibodies
[0121]       To produce a humanized version of a heavy chain antibody of the present
invention, an animal homozygous for the modification is immunized with an antigen
and once a specific immune response of the animal has been established, cells from
the spleen of the immunized animal are fused with a suitable immortal cell (e.g., a
myeloma cell) to produce hybridoma cells. Alternatively, the antibodies can be
obtained directly from B cells of the immunized animal. Supernatants from the
hybridoma cells (or, e.g., from isolated B cells) are screened for the presence of
antibody by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and antibodies specific for
the antigen can be selected based on desired characteristics.
[0122]       Heavy chain variable region (VH) nucleic acids can be isolated from
hybridoma and/or B cells using standard molecular biology techniques known in the
art (Sambrook, et al. 1989. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Second Edition,
Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.; Ausubel, et al. 1995. Short Protocols in Molecular Biology,
3rd ed., Wiley & Sons). Once the VH nucleic acid sequence has been determined,
the deduced amino acid sequence can be obtained and compared to other human
VH sequences to identify a group of related VH sequences that have a similar
sequence. Related VH sequences can be obtained using antibody databases
available to those of skill in the art, e.g., The International ImMunoGeneTics
Information System* (IMGT*). This comparison may be performed by alignment of
the sequences accomplished either by eye or, alternatively, electronically by
employing an alignment program (e.g., CLUSTAL). In this comparison, the
complementary determining regions (CDRs) and framework regions (FRs) are
identified. CDR and FR residues are determined according to a standard sequence
definition (e.g., Kabat et al. 1987, Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda Md.; Chothia and Lesk, 1987. J. Mol Biol.
196:901-917). Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may occasionally
exist discrepancies in methods of numbering and determining the CDR and FR
regions of an immunoglobulin heavy chain sequence. In such cases, the structural
definition is preferred, however, the residues identified by the sequence definition
method are considered important FR residues for determination of which framework
residues to substitute based on a comparison of heavy chain sequences.
[0123]       Once aligned, substitutable positions in the VH sequences are identified.
If the identity of an amino acid at a position in the isolated VH sequence varies when
                                               25

compared to the other human VH sequences, that position is evaluated for the
suitability of a substitution at that position of the isolated VH sequence. Therefore,
any position in the isolated VH sequence that varies with the other related human VH
sequence(s) to which it is being compared can potentially serve as a position that
could be substituted with the amino acid at the corresponding position found in one
or any of the other related human VH sequences. Positions that share identity with
the other related human VH sequences, i.e., those that do not demonstrate
variability, are determined to be nonsubstitutable positions. In various embodiments,
the above methods are employed to provide a consensus human heavy chain
antibody sequence.
[0124]       A humanized heavy chain antibody for the purposes described herein is
an immunoglobulin heavy chain amino acid sequence variant or fragment thereof
that is capable of binding to a predetermined antigen and that comprises a FR region
having a substantially similar or an identical amino acid sequence as compared with
a human FR amino acid sequence, and a CDR having a substantially similar or an
identical amino acid sequence to a non-human CDR amino acid sequence. In
general, a humanized heavy chain antibody has one or more amino acid residues
that are derived from a non-human source. Such residues are typically derived from
a heavy chain variable domain. Further, these residues may have associated
characteristics such as, for example, affinity and/or specificity as well as other
desirable biological activity associated with antibody function.
[0125]        In various embodiments, the humanized heavy chain antibody comprises
substantially all of at least one, and in other embodiments at least two, VH domains
in which all or substantially all of the CDR regions correspond to those of a non
human VH domain and all or substantially all of the FR regions are those of a human
VH domain sequence. The humanized heavy chain antibody will comprise a unique
immunoglobulin constant region (Fc), that in one embodiment lacks at least the CH1
domain, and in one embodiment also lacks the hinge region of a human Fc. In one
embodiment, the heavy chain antibody will not comprise a light chain and will
comprise the CH2 and CH3 regions of an immunoglobulin G (IgG) heavy chain
constant region. In one embodiment, the constant region of the heavy chain
antibody will include the hinge, CH2 and CH3 regions of the IgG heavy chain Fc. In
one embodiment, the constant region of the heavy chain antibody will include a CH1
region of an IgM.
[0126]       The humanized heavy chain antibody will be selected from any class of
IgGs, including IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4. In various embodiments, the constant
region may comprise sequences from more than one class of IgG, and selecting
                                               26

particular constant regions to optimize desired effector functions is within the ordinary
skill in the art.
[0127]        In general, the heavy chain FR and heavy chain CDR regions of the
humanized heavy chain antibody need not correspond precisely to the parental
sequences, e.g., the non-human heavy chain CDR or the human heavy chain FRs
may be altered by substitution, insertion or deletion of at least one residue so that the
heavy chain CDR or heavy chain FR residue at a given site does not correspond to
either the human heavy chain FR sequence or the non-human heavy chain CDR
sequence. Such mutations, however, will not be extensive. In one embodiment, at
least 75% of the humanized heavy chain antibody residues will correspond to those
of the parental heavy chain FR and heavy chain CDR sequences, in another
embodiment 90%, and in another embodiment greater than 95%.
[0128]        Humanized heavy chain antibodies as disclosed herein are, in one
embodiment, prepared by a process of analyzing parental sequences and various
conceptual humanized composite sequences in silico, using computer programs
available and known to those skilled in the art. Sequence modifications to make
humanized versions and/or for changing characteristics such as immunogenicity,
affinity, etc. are made employing methods known in the art (e.g., US 5,565,332
Hoogenboom et al.; US 5,639,641 Pedersen et al.; US 5,766,886 Studnicka et al.;
US 5,859,205 Adair et al.; US 6,054,297 Carter et al.; US 6,407,213 Carter et al.; US
6,639,055 Carter et al.; US 6,849,425 Huse et al.; US 6,881,557 Foote; US
7,098,006 Gorman et al.; US 7,175,996 Watkins et al.; US 7,235,643 Nicolaides et
al.; US 7,393,648 Rother et al.; US 7,462,697 Couto et al.).
[0129]        In various embodiments, desired substitutions to a parental heavy chain
antibody sequence to make a variant of a parental heavy chain antibody are those
that in one embodiment maintain, or in another embodiment increase, the antigen
binding activity of the parental heavy chain antibody. In general, a heavy chain
antibody variant of a parental heavy chain antibody has an antigen binding affinity
that is at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least
60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90% or at least 100% (e.g., at least 150%,
at least 200%, at least 500%, at least 1000%, or up to at least 10,000%) of the
binding affinity of the parental heavy chain antibody to a particular antigen. In some
embodiments, a variant heavy chain antibody will comprise a single substitution as
compared to a parental heavy chain antibody. However, in other embodiments,
several amino acids, e.g., up to about 5 or 10 or more, are substituted as compared
to the parental heavy chain antibody sequence that are derived from other human
heavy chain sequences that share identity at a given position. Substitutions in one
                                            27

embodiment are conservative (i.e., an amino acid sharing similar properties to the
residue to be replaced), and in another embodiment non-conservative (i.e., an amino
acid sharing different properties to the residue to be replaced). In various
embodiments, the resultant variant heavy chain antibody is tested to confirm that the
desired binding affinity and/or specificity has not been significantly decreased by the
replacement residues. In some embodiments, an improved variant heavy chain
antibody is produced by the substitution of amino acids from a different human heavy
chain sequence.
[0130]       Naturally occurring heavy chain antibodies (e.g., found in camelids) have
been demonstrated to contain unique amino acid residues at positions corresponding
to the interface between heavy and light chain variable regions in traditional antibody
molecules (i.e., two heavy chains and two light chains). These interface residues are
known to affect the proximity or orientation of the two chains relative to one another
in traditional antibodies. Although these natural heavy chain antibodies are known
to contain replacement of residues that correlate with the absence of light chain
variable regions, they retain the residues at other positions in the sequence as
compared to traditional antibodies for preserving the characteristic immunoglobulin
fold. The substitutions found in natural heavy chain antibodies are Li 1S, V37F,
G44E, L45R or L45C, W47G and additional cysteine residues that contribute to a
disulfide bond between the CDR1 and CDR3 of the heavy chain variable region. In
some embodiments, heavy chain antibodies of the present invention may retain the
residue of the parental antibody at these positions. In other embodiments, the
parental antibody may display mutations at these positions that are associated with
the residues in natural heavy chain antibodies. In some embodiments, it may be
desirable to retain the same residue as is found in the parental heavy chain antibody
at at least one of these positions or, in one embodiment, all of these positions when
making a humanized heavy chain antibody derived from an isolated VH sequence
from a genetically modified mouse as described herein. In various embodiments, a
person of skill in the art will understand that these interface residues are not
reasonably expected to be involved in interchain interactions in heavy chain
antibodies made by the genetically modified mouse as described herein.
Making Genetically Modified Animals
[0131]       Genetic modifications for making an animal that expresses a heavy chain
antibody are conveniently described by using the mouse as an illustration. A
genetically modified mouse according to the invention can be made in a variety of
ways, particular embodiments of which are discussed below.
                                             28

[0132]       A schematic illustration (not to scale) of an IgG1 locus is provided in
Figure 1 (top) to show CH domain arrangement at the IgG1 locus. As illustrated,
domains CH1, CH2, and CH3 and the hinge region are present in readily identifiable
spans of nucleotide downstream of a switch region.
[0133]       A genetically modified mouse lacking a nucleotide sequence encoding a
CH1 domain of an IgG1 but containing a hinge region can be made by any method
known in the art. For example, a targeting vector can be made that replaces the
IgG1 gene with a truncated IgG1 lacking a CH1 domain but containing the hinge.
Figure 2 illustrates a mouse genome (top) targeted by a targeting construct having a
5' (with respect to the direction of transcription of the genomic IgG1 gene) homology
arm containing sequence upstream of the endogenous CH1 domain, followed by
nucleotide sequences that encode an IgG1 hinge, an IgG1 CH2 domain, an IgG1
CH3 domain, a drug selection cassette (e.g., a loxed resistance gene), and an IgG1
transmembrane domain, and a 3' homology arm containing sequence 3' with respect
to the transmembrane domain. Upon homologous recombination at the locus and
removal of the drug selection cassette (e.g., by Cre treatment), the endogenous IgG1
is replaced by an IgG1 that lacks a CH1 domain (bottom of Figure 2; lox site not
shown). Figure 1 (IgG1ACH1, middle) shows the structure of the resulting locus,
which will express an IgG1 having a J region sequence fused to the hinge sequence.
[0134]       A genetically modified mouse lacking a nucleotide sequence encoding a
CH1 domain of an IgG1 and lacking a nucleotide sequence encoding a hinge region
can be made by any method known in the art. For example, a targeting vector can
be made that replaces the IgG1 gene with a truncated IgG1 lacking a sequence
encoding a CH1 domain and lacking a sequence encoding the hinge region. Figure
3 illustrates a mouse genome (top) targeted by a targeting construct having a 5' (with
respect to the direction of transcription of the genomic IgG1 gene) homology arm
containing sequence upstream of the endogenous CH1 domain, followed by
nucleotide sequences that encode an IgG1 CH2 domain, an IgG1 CH3 domain, a
drug selection cassette (e.g., a loxed resistance gene), and an IgG1 transmembrane
domain, and a 3' homology arm containing sequence 3' with respect to the
transmembrane domain. Upon homologous recombination at the locus and removal
of the drug selection cassette (e.g., by Cre treatment), the endogenous IgG1 gene is
replaced by an IgG1 gene that lacks a sequence encoding a CH1 domain (bottom of
Figure 3; lox site not shown). Figure 1 (IgG1ACH1-Ahinge, bottom) shows the
structure of the resulting locus, which will express an IgG1 having a J region
sequence fused to the CH2 domain.
                                             29

[0135]      A genetically modified mouse lacking an IgG1 CH1 sequence
(IgG1ACH1), or lacking an IgG1 CH1 sequence and lacking a hinge (IgG1 ACH1
Ahinge), can be further modified to favor usage of the modified IgG1 isotype by
deleting one or more other IgG isotypes, e.g., by deleting or functionally disabling
sequences encoding IgG2b and IgG2a. For example, a targeting construct is made
having a 5' homology arm containing sequence upstream of the endogenous hinge
region sequence (or upstream of the endogenous CH1 domain sequence),
sequences that encode the IgG1 CH2 and CH3 domains, a drug selection cassette
followed by a sequence encoding the IgG1 transmembrane domain, followed by
another drug selection cassette if desired. Upon homologous recombination at the
locus and removal of the drug selection cassette(s) (e.g., by Cre treatment), the
endogenous heavy chain constant locus contains only two IgG genes: an
endogenous IgG3 and the IgG1 ACH1 (see Figure 4, bottom; recombinase site(s) not
shown; see Figure 6, bottom) or IgGlACH1-Ahinge (see Figure 5, bottom;
recombinase site(s) not shown; see Figure 6, bottom).
[0136]       An IgG1 expressed in a genetically modified mouse having an
IgG1 ACH1 -Ahinge or an IgG1 ACH1 AlgG2aAlgG2b allele will have a structure as
shown on the right panel of Figure 10, i.e., the VH domain will be fused to the CH2
domain. The left panel of Figure 10 provides, for comparison, a wild-type IgG1
antibody, showing its CH1 domain linked via a hinge region to the CH2 domain, and
linked by disulfide linkage to the light chain constant domain CL. In contrast, the
antibody made by the genetically modified mouse lacks the hinge and CH1 domains
and thus lacks any CL domain.
[0137]      Genetically modified mice as described above, and others, are made by
introducing a suitable targeting construct into a suitable mouse ES cell (in one or
more independent targetings), and positive clones comprising a marker or selection
cassette of the targeting construct are identified and grown. Clones are then
employed as donor ES cells in a host embryo under conditions suitable for making a
chimeric mouse or a fully ES cell-derived mouse. The marker or selection cassette
can be optionally removed, either at the ES cell stage or in the chimeric or ES cell
derived mouse, e.g., by employing a loxed cassette and breeding to a Cre-containing
strain, or by electroporating the ES cell with a Cre expression vector.
[0138]      A genetically modified mouse having an IgG1ACH1-Ahinge allele
(heterozygous) was made in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
Serum was isolated from the mouse and blotted in a Western (reducing conditions)
using an anti-mouse IgG1 antibody to detect heavy chain. In contrast to a wild-type
                                             30

mouse, which displayed a band corresponding in size to a wild-type IgG1 heavy
chain, the mouse genetically modified to contain the IgGlACH1-Ahinge allele also
expressed a heavy chain that reacted with anti-mouse IgG1 antibody that had the
expected size of a heavy chain antibody consisting of the VH, CH2, and CH3
domains (see Figure 8).
EXAMPLES
Example 1: In vitro Expression of Heavy Chain Antibodies
[0139]      Chimeric heavy chain constructs were made using molecular biology
techniques (e.g., see Maniatis et al. 1982. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual.
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory) to fuse human variable regions with a murine lgG2b
(mlgG2b) constant region. The human variable gene segment for each construct
was a full-length human variable gene segment containing both exons (i.e., leader
sequence plus mature sequence), identified from an hVR of an IgM isolated from a
naive RAG mouse that contained a replacement of the endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus with three hVR gene segments, all hDH gene
segments, and all hJH gene segments. The light chain of the IgM antibody was a
mouse light chain.
[0140]      Two versions of the mlgG2b sequence were used; one with and one
without a CH1 domain. Several other constructs were also made to serve as
transfection and expression controls. A first control construct was made using a
cytokine receptor fused to the CH2 and CH3 domains of mouse IgG2a (mlgG2a)
constant region (Control 1). Two other controls were constructed by fusing a murine
ROR signal sequence to a murine IgG2a sequence with and without CH1 domains
(Control || and Ill, respectively).
[0141]      Camelized versions of each human variable region were also made using
PCR site-directed mutagenesis techniques (e.g., see Hutchinson et al. 1978.
Mutagenesis at a specific position in a DNA sequence. J. Biol. Chem. 253(18):6551
60). Two specific primer sets were used for each variable region to create specific
mutations within the human variable region sequence resulting in a human variable
region sequence containing camel-like features. Primers Li (SEQ ID NO:1) and
HH1.2 mut BOT (SEQ ID NO:2) were used to amplify one product comprising the 5'
half of the variable region while primers HH1.2 mut TOP (SEQ ID NO:3) and ml 8.3.1
(SEQ ID NO:4) were used to amplify the 3' half of the variable region. These
products were purified and mixed together to serve as a template for a third PCR
                                           31

reaction using primers Li and m18.3.1. The resulting camelized human variable
region PCR product was cloned, purified and confirmed by sequencing.
[0142]      The full length heavy chain constructs (variable and constant) were made
by amplifying the human variable regions (camelized and non-camelized) and
constant regions with primers containing restriction enzyme sites to allow for
subsequent ligation together via cohesive ends. All full length heavy chain
constructs were cloned into expression vectors, purified and confirmed again by
sequencing. Table 1 sets forth each heavy chain construct, their SEQ ID NOs and a
short description for each construct.
                                         Table 1
   Construct             Description                                    SEQ ID NO
                                    ____________________________(DNA/Protein)
   hVR-mFc               Non-camelized human variable region                 5/6
                         fused to mouse IgG2b
   hVR*-mFc              Camelized human variable region fused to            7/8
                         mouse IgG2b
                         Non-camelized human variable region
   hVR-mFcACH1           fused to mouse IgG2b lacking a CH1                 9/10
                         domain
   hVR*-mFcACH1          Camelized human variable region fused to          11/12
                         mouse IgG2b lacking a CH1 domain
[0143]      Chimeric heavy chain constructs were transiently transfected into Chinese
Hamster Ovary cells (CHO-K1) to analyze expression in the absence of
immunoglobulin light chain. Supernatants and cell lysates were examined by
Western blot to detect presence of heavy chain using horseradish peroxidase (HRP)
conjugated anti-mouse IgG antibody (Promega) by chemilumescence. All the
chimeric heavy chain constructs were transiently transfected six (6) independent
times. A representative Western blot of the transfections is shown in Figure 7.
[0144]      All chimeric heavy chain constructs, with and without the CH1 domain, as
well as the control constructs, were detected in the cell lysate. Only constructs
lacking a CH1 domain were observed in the supernatants (Figure 7, left). Control I
and Control III (mouse Fc protein lacking a CH1 domain) were also detected (Figure
7), but mouse Fc protein containing a CH1 domain was not detected. Both non
camelized and camelized heavy chain constructs containing a CH1 domain were not
detected in the supernatant for any transfection (Figure 7, right). However, both non
camelized and camelized human heavy chain constructs lacking a CH1 domain were
detected in the supernatant for all transfections. Together, the results establish that
                                           32

hVRs (normal or camelized) that lack a CH1 domain can be expressed and secreted
from transiently transfected CHO cells in the absence of immunoglobulin light chain,
whereas hVRs (normal or camelized) that contain a CH1 domain could not be
secreted in the absence of light chain.
Example 2: Modification of the Mouse Heavy Chain IgG1 Constant Region
A. Preparation of a mouse IgG1-CH1-Hinge Targeting Vector (Figure 3)
[0145]       A targeting construct for introducing a deletion of the CH1 and hinge
regions of the mouse IgG1 constant domain for the C57BL/6 allele from an ES cell of
a VELOCIMMUNE mouse (described below) was constructed.
[0146]       The targeting construct was made using VELOCIGENE@ technology
(see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela et al. (2003) High-throughput
engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high-resolution expression analysis,
Nature Biotech. 21(6):652-659) to modify the Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC)
BMQ 70p08. BMQ 70p08 BAC DNA was modified to delete the CH1 and hinge
regions of the IgG1 constant domain while leaving the remainder of the IgG1 gene
intact (e.g., CH2, CH3 and transmembrane exons).
[0147]       Briefly, upstream and downstream homology arms were made employing
primers m102 (SEQ ID NO:13) and m104 (SEQ ID NO:14) and m100 (SEQ ID
NO:15) and m99 (SEQ ID NO:16), respectively. These homology arms were used to
make a cassette that deleted the CH1 and hinge regions of the IgG1 constant
domain while retaining the CH2, CH3 and transmembrane regions of the IgG1
constant domain (see, e.g., Figure 3). The targeting construct included a loxed
hygromycin resistance gene positioned between the CH3 and transmembrane
domain exons of the IgG1 gene. Genes upstream of the CH1 and hinge exons (e.g.,
IgG3, IgD, IgM) and downstream of the IgG1 transmembrane exon (e.g., IgG2b,
IgG21, IgE, IgA, etc.) were unmodified by the targeting construct. Switch regions for
all constant domains were unmodified by the targeting construct. The nucleotide
sequence across the deletion included the following, which indicates a splice
acceptor sequence that is present at the deletion point: TGACAGTGTA
ATCACATATA CTTTTTCTTG T(AG)TCCCAGA AGTATCATC (SEQ ID NO:1 7). The
deletion sequence comprises a splice acceptor (the AG contained within parentheses
above) with pre-CH1 sequences 5' of the splice acceptor and CH2 exon sequences
3' of the splice acceptor.
B. Preparation of a mouse IgG1-CH1 Targeting Vector (Figure 2)
                                             33

[0148]       A second targeting construct for introducing a deletion of the CH1 of the
mouse IgG1 constant domain for the 129/SvEvTac allele from an ES cell of a
VELOCIMMUNE mouse (described below) was constructed in a similar fashion as
described in section A of this Example.
[0149]      The targeting construct was made using VELOCIGENE@ technology
(see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela et al. (2003) High-throughput
engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high-resolution expression analysis,
Nature Biotech. 21(6):652-659) to modify the Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC)
BMQ 70p08. BMQ 70p08 BAC DNA was modified to delete the CH1 region of the
IgG1 constant domain while leaving the remainder of the IgG1 gene intact (e.g.,
hinge, CH2, CH3 and transmembrane exons; see Figure 2).
[0150]      The homology arms for the second targeting construct were the same as
those for the CH1 -Hinge targeting vector (as described above in section A of this
Example). These homology arms were used to make a cassette that deleted the
CH1 region of the IgG1 constant domain while retaining the hinge, CH2, CH3 and
transmembrane regions of the IgG1 constant domain (see, e.g., Figure 2). The
targeting construct included a loxed hygromycin resistance gene positioned between
the CH3 and transmembrane domain exons of the IgG1 gene. Genes upstream of
the CH1 exon (e.g., IgG3, IgD, IgM) and downstream of the IgG1 transmembrane
exon (e.g., lgG2b, IgG21, IgE, IgA, etc.) were unmodified by the targeting construct.
Switch regions for all constant domains were unmodified by the targeting construct.
The nucleotide sequence across the deletion included the following, which indicates
a splice acceptor sequence that is present at the deletion point: TGACAGTGTA
ATCACATATA CTTTTTCTTG T(AG)TGCCCAG GGATTGTGGT TGTAAGCCTT
GCATATGTAC AGGTAAGTCA GTAGGCCTTT CACCCTGACC C (SEQ ID NO:64).
The deletion sequence comprises a splice acceptor (the AG contained within
parentheses above) with pre-CH1 sequences 5' of the splice acceptor and hinge
exon sequences 3' of the splice acceptor.
Example 3: Modification of the Mouse Heavy Chain Constant Region in ES
Cells
A. Targeting Mouse ES Cells with an IgG1-CH1-Hinge Targeting Vector
[0151]      A mouse ES cell was targeted with the targeting construct described
above (i.e., a targeting construct introducing a deletion of the CH1 and hinge regions
of the IgG1 gene). The ES cell was from a VELOCIMMUNE mouse that was a
50/50 mix of a 129 strain and a C57BL/6 strain, bearing genetic modifications that
comprise replacement of mouse heavy and light chain variable region gene
                                            34

segments with unrearranged human heavy and light chain variable region gene
segments. The 129 strain employed to cross with C57BL/6 is a strain that comprises
a replacement of mouse heavy chain and light chain variable region gene segments
with human heavy chain and light chain variable region gene segments.
[0152]      The heterozygous VELOCIMMUNE@ mice bear a single set of
endogenous mouse heavy chain constant region genes from the 129 strain at one
allele and a single set of endogenous mouse heavy chain constant region genes
from the C57BL/6 strain at the other allele. The 129 heavy chain allele is contiguous
with a locus of heavy chain variable region gene segments that are human heavy
chain variable region gene segments that have replaced the endogenous mouse
heavy chain variable region gene segments (i.e., at the endogenous mouse locus).
The BL/6 heavy chain allele is contiguous with wild-type mouse heavy chain variable
region gene segments. The VELOCIMMUNE@ mice also bear wild-type endogenous
mouse light chain constant region genes. Thus, by targeting the 129 allele with a
construct comprising an IgG, D, E, or A CH1 deletion a chimeric human/mouse
heavy chain antibody could be produced, whereas by targeting the C57BL/6 allele
with a similar construction, a fully mouse heavy chain antibody lacking a CH1 domain
and lacking a hinge could be produced.
[0153]       ES cells from the VELOCIMMUNE@ mice described above were
electroporated with linearized targeting vector of section A in Example 2 and selected
for the presence of the hygromycin resistance gene.
B. Targeting Mouse ES Cells with an IgG1 -CH1 Targeting Vector
[0154]       In a similar fashion, a mouse ES cell was targeted with the CH1 targeting
construct described in section B of Example 2 (see also Figure 2). The ES cell was
from a VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse that was a 50/50 mix of a 129/SvEvTac strain and a
C57BL/6 strain, bearing genetic modifications that comprise replacement of mouse
heavy and light chain variable region gene segments with unrearranged human
heavy and light chain variable region gene segments. The 129/SvEvTac strain
employed to cross with C57BL/6 is a strain that comprises a replacement of mouse
heavy chain and light chain variable region gene segments with human heavy chain
and light chain variable region gene segments.
[0155]      The heterozygous VELOCIMMUNE mice bear a single set of
endogenous mouse heavy chain constant region genes from the 129/SvEvTac strain
at one allele and a single set of endogenous mouse heavy chain constant region
genes from the C57BL/6 strain at the other allele. The 129/SvEvTac heavy chain
allele is contiguous with a locus of heavy chain variable region gene segments that
                                            35

are human heavy chain variable region gene segments that have replaced the
endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene segments (i.e., at the
endogenous mouse locus). The BL/6 heavy chain allele is contiguous with wild-type
mouse heavy chain variable region gene segments. The VELOCIMMUNE@ mice
also bear wild-type endogenous mouse light chain constant region genes. Thus, by
targeting the 129/SvEvTac allele with a construct comprising an IgG, D, E, or A CH1
deletion a chimeric human/mouse heavy chain antibody could be produced, whereas
by targeting the C57BL/6 allele with a similar construction, a fully mouse heavy chain
antibody lacking a CH1 domain and lacking a hinge could be produced.
[0156]         ES cells from the VELOCIMMUNE@ mice described above were
electroporated with linearized targeting vector, described in section B in Example 2,
and selected for the presence of the hygromycin resistance gene.
Example 4: Generation of Mice Carrying a Modified IgG1 Constant Region
A. Mice Carrying an IgG1-CH1-Hinge Deletion
[0157]        Targeted ES cells described above were used as donor ES cells and
introduced into an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (see,
e.g., US Pat. No. 7,294,754 and Poueymirou et al. (2007) FO generation mice that
are essentially fully derived from the donor gene-targeted ES cells allowing
immediate phenotypic analyses Nature Biotech. 25(1):91-99. VELOCIMICE@ (FO
mice fully derived from the donor ES cell) bearing targeted C57BL/6 IgG1 alleles
were identified by genotyping using a modification of allele assay (Valenzuela et al.,
supra) that detected the presence of sequences positioned upstream and
downstream of the deleted hinge and CH1 regions.
[0158]         Mice genotyped for the IgG1 CH1 and hinge deletion (in the C57BL/6
allele, i.e., the mouse allele) were bred to a Cre deleter mouse strain (see, e.g.,
International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2009/114400) in order to remove
the loxed hyg cassette downstream of the IgG1 CH3 exon and upstream of the IgG1
transmembrane exon, introduced by the targeting construct (see, e.g., Figure 3).
Pups were genotyped and a pup heterozygous for the IgG1 CH1 and hinge deletion
was selected to examine IgG1 heavy chain expressed from the C57BL/6 allele in the
pup's serum.
B. Mice Carrying an IgG1-CH1 Deletion
[0159]         In a similar fashion, targeted ES cells carrying a deletion of the IgG1 CH1
region were used as donor ES cells and introduced into an 8-cell stage mouse
embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE method (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 7,294,754 and
                                               36

Poueymirou et al. (2007) FO generation mice that are essentially fully derived from
the donor gene-targeted ES cells allowing immediate phenotypic analyses Nature
Biotech. 25(1):91-99. VELOCIMICE@ (FO mice fully derived from the donor ES cell)
bearing targeted 129SvEv/Tac alleles were identified by genotyping using a
modification of allele assay (Valenzuela et al., supra) that detected the presence of
sequences positioned upstream and downstream of the deleted CH1 region.
[0160]      Mice genotyped for the IgG1 CH1 deletion (in the 129/SvEvTac allele, i.e.,
the human allele) were bred to a Cre deleter mouse strain (see, e.g., International
Patent Application Publication No. WO 2009/114400) in order to remove the loxed
hyg cassette downstream of the IgG1 CH3 exon and upstream of the IgG1
transmembrane exon, introduced by the targeting construct (see, e.g., Figure 2).
Pups were genotyped and a pup homozygous for the IgG1 CH1 deletion was
selected to examine modified IgG1 heavy chain expression.
Example 5: Heavy Chain Antibodies from Mice Carrying a Modified IgG1 Gene
A. IgG1-ACH1-AHinge Mice
[0161]     A mouse pup identified above as containing the CH1 and hinge deletion,
and a wild-type pup, were bled and sera from the bled mice were prepared for
Western blotting to identify any expressed IgG in the sera using an anti-mIgG1
antibody. Briefly, 10 pL of a 1:100 dilution of mouse sera was used in reducing SDS
PAGE, and the gel was transferred to a PVDF membrane. The blot was blocked
overnight with 5% nonfat milk in Tris-Buffered Saline with 0.05% Tween-20 (TBST;
Sigma), washed 4 times for 5 minutes per wash with TBST, and then exposed to
primary antibody (goat anti-mIgG1 conjugated to HRP, Southern Biotech) diluted
1:1,000 in 1% nonfat milk in TBST for two hours at room temperature. The blot was
washed 6 times for 5 minutes per wash. The blot was developed for 5 minutes with
SUPERSIGNAL T M West Pico Chemiluminescent Substrate (Thermo Scientific) and
then exposed to film for 1 minute.
[0162]     Serum from the VELOCIMOUSE@ (50% wild-type BL/6; 50% ACH1
Ahinge BL/6) derived from the targeted donor ES cell revealed a mixture of bands:
one band of about 57.5 kD, the expected size for a wild-type IgG, and one band at
about 45 kD, the expected size for an IgG lacking a CH1 domain and a hinge (Figure
8). The results are consistent with the VELOCIMOUSE@ expressing a normal
mouse heavy chain from the wild-type BL/6 allele and a ACH1/Ahinge mouse heavy
chain from its ACH1-Ahinge BL/6 allele. This result establishes that genetically
modified mice bearing a functional IgM gene and an IgG gene that lacks a CH1
                                            37

domain and a hinge domain are capable of expressing heavy chain antibodies in
serum.
B. IgG1-ACH1 Mice
[0163]      In a similar fashion, mouse pups homozygous for the CH1 deletion, and
wild-type pups, were bled. Plasma and serum (for five homozygotes; two wild-type)
from the bled mice were prepared for Western blotting to identify any expressed IgG
in the sera using an anti-mIgG1 antibody (described above). Western blots of serum
and plasma from mice homozygous for the IgG1 -ACH1 deletion revealed a mixture of
bands: one band of about 45 kD, the expected size for a single chain IgG1 lacking a
CH1 domain, and one band at about 75 kD, the expected size for a dimer IgG lacking
a CH1 domain (data not shown). The results are consistent with the homozygous
VELOCIMICE expressing an IgG1 -ACH1 heavy chain from either one or both
heavy chain loci. This result establishes that genetically modified mice bearing a
functional IgM gene and an IgG gene that lacks a CH1 domain are capable of
expressing heavy chain antibodies in the peripheral lymphocyte compartment of the
animals' immune system.
Example 6: Characterization of Mice Homozygous for IgG1-CH1-Hinge Deletion
[0164]      VELOCIMICE heterozygous for the CH1 -hinge deletion were bred
together to obtain mice homozygous for the deletion. Four mouse pups were
identified as homozygous for IgG1 ACH1 -Ahinge. These four mice and a wild-type
mouse were bled and sera from the bled mice were prepared for Western blotting to
identify any expressed IgG in the sera using an anti-mIgG1 antibody (as described
above). Figure 9 shows the film developed from the PVDF-membrane used in this
experiment. Serum was diluted 1:5 and 1:10 and 10 pL of each dilution was loaded
onto the gel side-by-side for each mouse. On the top portion of the gel images, the
lanes are labeled for each mouse as well as IgG1 (1) and IgG2a (2a) controls.
[0165]      Serum from the wild-type mouse showed an expected pattern for a wild
type mouse that expresses normal antibodies comprising two heavy chains and two
light chains (approximately 150 kD). All four mice (homozygous for IgG1 ACH1
Ahinge) each showed a mixture of bands: one band of about 150 kD, the expected
size for a wild-type IgG other than IgG1 (e.g., IgG2a, IgG2b or IgG3), and one band
at about 45 kD, the expected size for an IgG lacking a CH1 domain and a hinge
(Figure 9). These results are consistent with the mice expressing an IgG1 heavy
chain antibody lacking a CH1 domain and a hinge region and lacking a light chain.
                                           38

This result further establishes that genetically modified mice bearing a functional IgM
gene and an IgG gene that lacks a CH1 domain and a hinge region are capable of
expressing heavy chain antibodies in serum.
[0166]       In another experiment, serum expression of IgG was determined from
mice homozygous for the IgG1 ACH1 -Ahinge using an ELISA assay. Briefly,
antibodies specific for either mIgG1 or mIgG2b (Pharmingen) were separately diluted
and 100 pl/well was coated onto plates at 2 pg/mL in 1 x PBS (Irvine Scientific) and
incubated at 40C overnight. The following day the plates were washed four times
with PBS with 0.05% Tween-20 (PBST; Sigma). After the fourth wash, plates were
blocked with 250 pL/well of PBST with 5% BSA (Sigma) and incubated at room
temperature for one hour. Serum and standards were serially diluted (dilution factor
of 0.316) in PBST in 0.5% BSA down the plate (from top to bottom) at a starting
concentration of 400 ng/mL (mIgG1) or 600 ng/mL (mIgG2b). After blocking, the
plates were washed again four times with PBST. Following the fourth wash, 100 pL
of serum or standard was added to the plates and incubated for one hour at room
temperature. The plates were again washed four times with PBST. Following the
washes, 100 pL of a biotinylated detection antibody (10 ng/mL of rat anti-mIgG1 or
250 ng/mL of anti-mIgG2b; Pharmingen) was added to the plates and incubated for
one hour at room temperature. The plates were again washed as described above.
Following the wash, 100 pL/well of a 1:20,000 dilution of horseradish peroxidase
conjugated to streptavidin (HRP-SA) in PBST was added to the plates and the plates
were incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature. The plates were then washed
six times with PBST, after which 100 pL/well of a 1:1 dilution of Substrate A and B
(BD OPTEIA TM ; BD Biosciences) was added and the plates were maintained in the
dark. The reaction was developed in the dark and stopped as desired (approx. 15
minutes) with 1N phosphoric acid. Stopped reactions were read on a Wallac 1420
Work Station VICTOR      TM Plate Reader at an absorption wavelength of 450 nm (1.0
sec/reading) and the results plotted on graphs (Figure 11).
[0167]      Serum from wild-type mice showed normal levels of IgG1 and IgG2b.
Mice homozygous for IgG1 ACH1-Ahinge were capable of expressing an IgG1
lacking a CH1 domain and a hinge region in the periphery (serum; left side of Figure
11). Further, serum levels of other IgG isotypes (e.g., IgG2b) were not noticeably
reduced from wild-type levels (right side of Figure 11). This result further establishes
that genetically modified mice bearing a functional IgM gene and an IgG gene that
lacks a CH1 domain and a hinge region are capable of expressing a modified IgG1
isotype (i.e., lacking a CH1 domain and a hinge) that can be detected in serum.
                                            39

Example 7: Analysis of V-D-J Rearrangements in IgG1 Modified Mice
A. Mice Homozygous for an IgG1-CH1-Hinge Deletion
[0168]       Mice homozygous for the IgG1 ACH1 -Ahinge modification were analyzed
for V-D-J recombination and heavy chain gene usage by reverse-transcriptase
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using RNA isolated from splenocytes.
[0169]       Briefly, spleens were harvested and perfused with 10 mL RPMI-1640
(Sigma) with 5% HI-FBS in sterile disposable bags. Each bag containing a single
spleen was then placed in a STOMACHER         TM (Seward) and homogenized at a
medium setting for 30 seconds. Homogenized spleens were filtered using a 0.7 pm
cell strainer and then pelleted with a centrifuge (1000 rpm for 10 minutes) and red
blood cells (RBCs) were lysed in BD PHARM LYSE TM (BD Biosciences) for three
minutes. Splenocytes were diluted with RPMI-1640 and centrifuged again followed
by resuspension in 1 mL of PBS (Irvine Scientific). RNA was isolated from pelleted
splenocytes using standard techniques known in the art.
[0170]        RT-PCR was performed on splenocyte RNA using a set of degenerate
primers specific for mouse heavy chain variable region (VH) gene segments
(Novagen) and a mouse IgG1 CH2 primer (CGATGGGGGC AGGGAAAGCT GCAC;
SEQ ID NO:40). PCR products were gel-purified and cloned into pCR2.1-TOPO TA
(Invitrogen) and sequenced with M13 Forward (GTAAAACGAC GGCCAG; SEQ ID
NO:41) and M13 Reverse (CAGGAAACAG CTATGAC; SEQ ID NO:42) primers
located within the vector sequence at positions flanking the cloning site. Nineteen
clones were sequenced to determine heavy chain gene usage and sequence of the
junction of the rearranged VH and the CH2 of the IgG1 constant region (Table 2).
                                              Table 2
                                    Heavy Chain Gene Usage
                            Clone      VH          DH      JH
                            B1        1-58         3-2      2
                            B2        1-26         4-1      1
                            B3        1-50        2-14      2
                            B4        1-58         3-2      2
                            B5        14-2         4-1      4
                            D2         3-6         1-1      4
                            D5        14-1         3-3      2
                            D6        14-2         4-1      3
                            D7         3-6         1-1      4
                                            40

                            E2          7-1       3-1      4
                            E3         1-50      2-14      2
                            E4         1-50      2-14      2
                            E7         1-50      2-14      2
                            E8         1-72       1-1      4
                            E10        1-42       1-1      1
                            F6          5-6       1-1      1
                            F7          5-6       1-1      1
                            F8          5-6       1-1      1
                            F10         5-6       1-1      1
[0171]       Figure 12 shows the sequence alignment of the VH domains rearranged
to the CH2 of the IgG1 constant region for eleven of the nineteen RT-PCR clones.
The sequences shown in Figure 12 illustrate unique rearrangements involving
different mouse heavy chain V, D and J gene segments and mouse IgG1 devoid of
CH1 and hinge regions. Mice homozygous for a deletion of the CH1 and hinge
regions of the endogenous IgG1 constant region gene were able to produce heavy
chains containing mouse VH domains operably linked to a CH2-CH3 region from a
mouse IgG1 constant region devoid of CH1 and hinge regions and produce B cells
that expressed mouse IgG1 heavy chains devoid of CH1 and hinge regions and
lacking a light chain (Figures 8 and 9). These rearrangements demonstrate that the
modified loci were able to independently rearrange mouse heavy chain gene
segments in multiple, independent B cells in these mice to produce heavy chain
antibodies that are similar to those normally found in camels. Further, this Example
demonstrates that the deletion of the endogenous IgG1 CH1 and hinge regions did
not render the locus inoperable or prevent recombination involving the modified IgG1
constant region. These mice made functional heavy chain antibodies containing an
IgG1 devoid of CH1 and hinge regions as part of the endogenous repertoire without
any detectable defect in B cell development.
B. Mice Homozygous for an IgG1-CH1 Deletion
[0172]       In a similar fashion, mice homozygous for the IgG1 ACH1 modification
were analyzed for V-D-J recombination and human heavy chain gene usage by
reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using RNA isolated from
splenocytes.
[0173]       Briefly, spleens were isolated from two homozygous IgG1-ACH1 mice as
described above in section A of this Example. CD1 9' B cells were isolated using
                                             41

magnetic cell sorting (MACS, Miltenyi Biotec) from pooled splenocytes. RNA was
extracted from the sorted CD19* B cells using Qiagen ALLPREP    TM  DNA/RNA mini kit
(Qiagen). First-strand cDNA was synthesized with SUPERSCRIPT        M III
                                                                    T
                                                                          Reverse
Transcriptase and Oligo (dT)20 primers (Invitrogen). The cDNA was then used as a
template for PCR performed with a 3' mouse IgG1 hinge specific primer and 5'
degenerate primers designed to bind human heavy variable leader sequences (Table
3). PCR products were cloned into pCR2.1 TOPO TM TA vector (Invitrogen) and
sequenced with M13 Forward and M1 3 Reverse primers (as described above in
section A of this Example).
                                       Table 3
       Primer            Sequence (5'-3')                          SEQ ID NO:
       hVHL-1            TCACCATGGA CTGSACCTGG A                        43
       hVHL-2            CCATGGACAC ACTTTGYTCC AC                       44
       hVHL-3            TCACCATGGA GTTTGGGCTG AGC                      45
       hVHL-4            AGAACATGAA ACAYCTGTGG TTCTT                    46
       hVHL-5            ATGGGGTCAA CCGCCATCCT                          47
       hVHL-6            ACAATGTCTG TCTCCTTCCT CAT                      48
       3' mIgG1 Hinge    GCAAGGCTTA CAACCACAAT C                        49
[0174]       To determine heavy chain gene usage in mice homozygous for IgG1
ACH1, twenty-eight RT-PCR clones were sequenced. Within these clones, seven
unique rearrangements of human V, D and J gene segments were observed (Table
4).
                                           Table 4
                                 Heavy Chain Gene Usage
                         Clone      VH           DH     JH
                            A2     1-69        6-19      6
                            A5     1-69         6-7      4
                            A8      1-8         4-4      4
                            C2     1-18         6-6      2
                            C4     1-18        3-16      6
                            D9     1-18         6-6      4
                            H8     1-18         1-7      4
[0175]      Figure 13 shows the sequence alignment of the VH domains rearranged
to the hinge-CH2-CH3 of the IgG1 constant region for the seven rearrangements
                                         42

shown in Table 4. The sequences shown in Figure 13 illustrate unique
rearrangements involving different human heavy chain V, D and J gene segments
and mouse IgG1 devoid of the CH1 region. Mice homozygous for a deletion of the
CH1 region of the endogenous IgG1 constant region gene were able to produce
heavy chains containing human VH domains operably linked to a hinge-CH2-CH3
region from a mouse IgG1 constant region devoid of CH1 and produce B cells that
expressed mouse IgG1 heavy chains devoid of CH1 regions and lacking a light chain
(data not shown). These rearrangements demonstrate that either one or both
modified loci (IgG1 ACH1-Ahinge and IgG1 ACH1) were able to independently
rearrange heavy chain gene segments (mouse and human) in multiple, independent
B cells in these mice to produce heavy chain antibodies that are similar to those
normally found in camels. Further, this Example demonstrates that the deletion of
the endogenous IgG1 CH1 did not render the locus inoperable or prevent
recombination involving human heavy chain V, D and J gene segments and the
modified mouse IgG1 constant region. These mice made functional heavy chain
antibodies containing human heavy chain V domains and a mouse IgG1 devoid of
CH1 as part of the endogenous repertoire without any detectable defect in B cell
development.
                                         43

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A mouse comprising a germline genetic modification that comprises a deletion of
a nucleotide sequence encoding a CH1 of an IgG, wherein the mouse expresses an
IgM that comprises a CH1 domain and the mouse expresses in its serum an IgG
antibody that lacks a CH1 domain and that lacks a light chain, and wherein the
mouse is incapable of expressing an IgG mRNA that comprises a sequence
encoding a CH1 domain.
2. The mouse of claim 1, wherein the deletion of the nucleotide sequence encoding
the CH1 is in an IgG1 gene.
3. The mouse of claim 1, comprising a functional immunoglobulin light chain gene
locus.
4. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, wherein the IgG antibody that lacks a
light chain comprises a human variable domain and a mouse constant domain that
lacks a CH1 domain.
5. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, wherein the IgG antibody that lacks a
light chain comprises a mouse variable domain and a mouse constant domain that
lacks a CH1 domain.
6. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, comprising a deletion of an IgG2a
gene.
7. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, comprising a deletion of an lgG2b
gene.
8. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, comprising a deletion of an IgG2a
gene and a deletion of an lgG2b gene.
9. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, comprising a deletion of an IgG2a
gene and a deletion of an lgG2b gene.
10. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, comprising a replacement of one or
more endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene segments with one or
more human heavy chain variable region gene segments.
11. The genetically modified mouse of claim 10, wherein the one or more human
heavy chain variable region gene segments are human VH1 family gene segments.
                                         44

12. The genetically modified mouse of claim 11, wherein the VH1 family gene
segments comprise FR1, FR2, and FR3 regions that are at least 90% identical to
FR1, FR2, and FR3 gene segments of human VH gene segments 1-8, 1-18, and 1
69.
13.The genetically modified mouse of claim 11, further comprising a human D gene
segment and a human J gene segment.
14. The genetically modified mouse of claim 11, wherein the mouse comprises a
rearranged immunoglobulin gene that encodes and FR4 that is at least 90% identical
to an FR4 encoded by a human D1-7/J4, D3-16/J6, D4-4/J4, D6-6/J4, D6-6/J2, D6
7/J4, or D6-19/J6.
15. The genetically modified mouse of claim 1, comprising a replacement of one or
more endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene segments with one or
more camelized human heavy chain variable region gene segments.
16. A method for making a somatically mutated heavy chain antibody in a mouse,
comprising the step of
            a. immunizing a mouse with an antigen, wherein the mouse comprises
                an unrearranged human or mouse heavy chain immunoglobulin
                variable region gene segment, and wherein the mouse lacks a
                nucleotide sequence of at least one allele that encodes a functional
                IgG CH1 domain, and wherein the mouse expresses an IgM that
                comprises a CH1 domain;
            b. maintaining the mouse under conditions sufficient to initiate an
                immune response to the antigen; and,
            c.  isolating from the mouse a somatically mutated heavy chain antibody
                comprising a variable domain that is derived from the human or
                mouse heavy chain immunoglobulin variable region gene segment,
                and wherein the somatically mutated heavy chain antibody specifically
                binds the antigen.
17. A genetically modified mouse, comprising a replacement of all or substantially
all V, D, and J gene segments with one or more human V, human D, and human J
gene segments, wherein the one or more human V, D, and J gene segments are
operably linked at the endogenous mouse locus to a mouse heavy chain constant
region gene locus, wherein the mouse heavy chain constant region gene locus
comprises a full-length IgM gene, an IgG gene comprising a deletion in a nucleotide
                                          45

sequence encoding a CH1 domain in an IgG gene selected from an IgG1, IgG2a,
IgG2b, IgG3, and a combination thereof; wherein the mouse expresses a B cell
receptor that comprises an IgM with a CH1 region, wherein the IgM comprises a
heavy chain associated with a cognate lambda or kappa light chain.
18. The genetically modified mouse of claim 17, wherein the one or more human V,
D, and J gene segments comprise a human gene segment from a variable region
family selected from VH1, VH3, VH4, and a combination thereof.
19. The genetically modified mouse of claim 18, wherein the one or more human
gene segments are selected from 1-2, 1-8, 1-18, 1-46, 1-69, 3-21, 3-72, 4-59, and a
combination thereof.
20. The genetically modified mouse of claim 18, wherein the one or more human V,
D, and J gene segments comprise a D1 -7, D3-16, D4-4, D6-6, D6-7, D6-19, J2, J3,
J4, and a combination thereof.
                                         46

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
