ABSTRACT
        A surgical tool comprises an elongated first assembly and an elongated second
assembly. The second assembly comprises an elongated support element, an elongated
activation element moveable relative to the support element, and a functional mechanism
coupled to the activation element. A movement of the functional mechanism is in response to
a movement of the activation element. A force imparted by the movement of the activation
element is isolated from the first assembly by the support element.

                       ARTICULATING SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS AND
                             METHODS OF DEPLOYING THE SAME
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5         This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/681,340,
   filed August 9, 2012, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/751,498,
   filed January 11, 2013, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/656,600,
 0 filed June 7, 2012, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/825,297,
   filed May 20, 2013, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61818,878,
   filed May 2, 2013, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 5         This application is related to PCT Application No. PCT/US2012/040414, filed June 1,
   2012, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/492,578, filed June
   2, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US2012/032279, filed April 5,
 0 2012, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application is related to United States Provisional Application No. 61/472,344,
   filed April 6, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US2011/060214, filed
   November 10, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
25         This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/412,733, filed
   November 11, 2010, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US2012/054802, filed
   September 12, 2012, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/534,032, filed
30 September 13, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
           This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/406,032, filed
   October 22, 2010, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                  -1-

          This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US2011/057282, filed
  October 21, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/368,257, filed July
  28, 2010, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
5         This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US2011/044811, filed July 21,
  2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          This application is related to PCT Application No PCT/US2012/070924, filed
  December20, 2012, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          This application is related to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/578,582, filed
0 December 21, 2011, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          This application is related to U.S. Patent Application No. 11/630,279, filed December
  20, 2006, published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009/0171151, the content of
  which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
5
                                                 -2-

   TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present inventive concepts generally relate to the field of surgical tools, and more
   particularly, to articulating surgical tools and tool sheaths, methods of deploying articulating
   surgical tools and tool sheaths, and methods of forming the same.
 5
   BACKGROUND
            As less invasive medical techniques and procedures become more widespread,
   medical professionals, such as surgeons, may require articulating surgical tools to perform
   such less invasive medical techniques and procedures from outside the human body.
 0 However, conventional articulating surgical tools, such as endoscopes and other types of
   tools, may have limited turning radii and reduced payload stability at high articulation ranges.
   SUMMARY
            Embodiments of the present inventive concepts may be directed to articulating
 5 surgical tools and tool sheaths that have extended turning radii and increased payload
   stability at high articulation ranges.
            In one aspect, a system for performing a medical procedure comprises: an articulating
   probe including inner and outer sleeves; and a surgical tool including a functional element
   positioned at a distal end of a tool shaft, the tool shaft having an articulation region, wherein
 0 the articulating probe and the surgical tool are independently controllable.
            In some embodiments, the articulating probe is constructed and arranged to be
   controlled via a human interface device. The human interface device may include one or
   more selected from the group consisting of: a haptic controller, a joystick, a track ball, a
   mouse and an electromechanical device.
25          In some embodiments, the surgical tool is constructed and arranged to be controlled
   via a surgical tool handle. The surgical tool handle may include one selected from the group
   consisting of: scissor handles, a palm-held grip, a thumb/index/middle finger grip and a pistol
   grip.
            In some embodiments, the articulating probe further includes at least one working
30 channel having an opening at a working surface of the articulating probe, the working surface
   being at a distal end of the articulating probe. A portion of the tool shaft may be positioned
   within the at least one working channel. The functional element of the surgical tool may
   extend outwardly from the opening. The functional element may be constructed and arranged
                                                    -3-

   to articulate with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe. The functional
   element may be constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to an axis of extension of
   the tool shaft. The functional element may be constructed and arranged to articulate between
   0' and 900 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe. The functional
 5 element may be constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 135' with respect to
   the working surface of the articulating probe. The functional element may be constructed and
   arranged to articulate between 0' and 1800 with respect to the working surface of the
   articulating probe.
            In some embodiments, the outer sleeve of the articulating probe includes at least one
 0 side port. The at least one side port may include a side port lock. The side port lock may
   include a pneumatic lock. The pneumatic lock may include a solenoid. The pneumatic lock
   may include an expandable pouch. The side port lock may include a hydraulic lock. The
   hydraulic lock may include a solenoid. The hydraulic lock may include an expandable pouch
   or balloon. The side port lock may include an electrically activated lock. The electrically
 5 activated lock may include a solenoid. The electrically activated lock may include a
   piezoelectric actuator. The side port lock may be positioned within the at least one side port.
   The side port lock may be constructed and arranged to secure a tool shaft that passes through
   the at least one side port in a locked mode. The side port lock may be constructed and
   arranged to allow a tool shaft to pass through the at least one side port in an unlocked mode.
 0          In some embodiments, the outer sleeve of the articulating probe includes at least one
   side port. A portion of the tool shaft may pass through the at least one side port. The side
   port may guide the tool shaft along an outer surface of the outer sleeve. The functional
   element of the surgical tool may extend outwardly from a working surface of the articulating
   probe, the working surface being at a distal end of the articulating probe. The functional
25 element may be constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to the working surface of
   the articulating probe. The functional element may be constructed and arranged to articulate
   with respect to an axis of extension of the tool shaft. The functional element may be
   constructed and arranged to articulate between 00 and 900 with respect to the working surface
   of the articulating probe. The functional element may be constructed and arranged to
30 articulate between 00 and 1350 with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
   The functional element may be constructed and arranged to articulate between 00 and 1800
   with respect to the working surface of the articulating probe.
                                                  -4-

            In some embodiments, each of the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating probe
   includes a plurality of probe links.
            In some embodiments, the inner sleeve and the outer sleeve of the articulating probe
   are independently controllable. Each of the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating probe
 5 may be configured in one of a limp mode and a rigid mode.
            In some embodiments, the articulating probe includes at least one steering cable. The
   at least one steering cable may terminate at a region proximal to a distal end of the
   articulating probe.
            In some embodiments, the functional element includes one or more selected from the
 0 group consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an ablator, a cauterizer, a drug
   delivery apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a
   camera, a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic element.
            In some embodiments, the functional element includes a first tool sheath cavity and
   the tool shaft includes a second tool sheath cavity. The surgical tool may be constructed and
 5 arranged to provide a cavity path for entry of a second surgical tool. The first tool sheath
   cavity and second tool sheath cavity may be coupled to form the cavity path. A region of the
   cavity path may correspond to the articulation region of the tool shaft.
            In some embodiments, the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed and
   arranged to lock an articulated position of the functional element.
 0          In some embodiments, the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed and
   arranged to lock an operational mode of the functional element.
            In some embodiments, the functional element includes a grasper. The grasper may be
   constructed and arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF. The grasper may
   be constructed and arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF when the
25 articulation region is positioned in a fully articulated state.
            In some embodiments, the system is constructed and arranged to perform a transoral
   robotic surgery procedure.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region of the tool shaft includes at least two
   segment links. One segment link of the at least two segment links may be unitary. Each
30 segment link of the at least two segment links may be unitary. A first segment link of the at
   least two segment links may be coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second
   segment link of the at least two segment links may be coupled to a second shaft portion of the
   tool shaft. The functional element may be coupled to the second shaft portion. A first
                                                   -5-

    segment link of the at least two segment links may be coupled to a first shaft portion of the
   tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least two segment links may be coupled to the
   functional element. The articulation region of the tool shaft may further include one or more
   third segment links coupled between the first segment link and the second segment link.
 5          The first segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second portion,
   wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion. The first segment link
   may include a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion
   includes a convex body portion. The convex body portion may be a semi-spherical body
   portion. The convex body portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The first portion
 0 may include a cylindrical body portion. The semi-spherical body portion of the first segment
   link may mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first shaft portion. The semi
    spherical body portion of the first segment link may mate with a concave cavity portion of the
   first shaft portion. The concave cavity portion may be a semi-spherical cavity portion. The
   concave cavity portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal cavity portion.
 5          The first segment link may include at least one articulation cable channel. The at least
   one articulation cable channel may include a first opening in an upper surface of the first
   portion and a second opening in a bottom surface of the first portion. The first portion may
   include a cylindrical body portion. The at least one articulation cable channel may comprise
   first through fourth articulation cable channels that may be spaced 900 apart around the
 0 circumference or perimeter of the first portion. The at least one articulation cable channel
   may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that may be positioned 90'
   apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the first
   portion. The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion.
            The first segment may include an actuation cable channel. The actuation cable
25 channel may include a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body
   portion of the first segment and a second opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion
   of the first segment. The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion. The actuation
   cable channel may include an upper taper joined at the first opening that conforms the first
   opening with a cylindrical cavity of the body of the first segment. The cylindrical cavity may
30 join a lower taper of the body of the first segment. The lower taper may conform the
   cylindrical cavity with a semi-spherical cavity of the body of the first segment. The second
    segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the
    second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion.
                                                  -6-

            The second segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second
   portion, wherein the second portion includes a convex body portion. The convex body
   portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The convex body portion may be a semi
   ellipsoidal body portion. The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion. The semi
 5 spherical body portion of the second segment link may mate with a semi-spherical cavity
   portion of the first segment link. The semi-spherical body portion of the second segment link
   may mate with a concave cavity portion of the first segment link. The concave cavity portion
   may be a semi-spherical cavity portion. The concave cavity portion may be a semi
   ellipsoidal cavity portion. At least two articulation cable channels of the first segment link
 0 may be aligned with at least two articulation cable channels of the second segment link. Each
   articulation cable channel of the first segment link may be aligned with each articulation
   cable channel of the second segment link.
            The body of the second segment link may include at least one articulation cable
   channel. The at least one articulation cable channel may include a first opening in an upper
 5 surface of the first portion and a second opening in a bottom surface of the first portion. The
   first portion may include a cylindrical body portion. The at least one articulation cable
   channel may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced 900
   apart around the circumference or perimeter of the first portion. The at least one articulation
   cable channel may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that positioned
 0 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the first
   portion. The first portion may include a cylindrical body portion.
            The body of the second segment may include an actuation cable channel. The
   actuation cable channel may include a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi
   spherical body portion of the second segment and a second opening at a diametric midpoint
25 of the first portion of the second segment. The first portion may include a cylindrical body
   portion. The actuation cable channel may include an upper taper joined at the first opening
   that conforms the first opening with a first cylindrical cavity of the body of the second
   segment. The first cylindrical cavity may join a second cylindrical cavity of the body of the
   second segment. A diameter of the first cylindrical cavity may be less than a diameter of the
30 second cylindrical cavity.
            The second segment link may be coupled to the functional element. The second
   segment link may be coupled to a connection link of the functional element. The connection
                                                  -7-

   link may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
   thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
            The functional element may include an actuating piston positioned within an inner
   cavity of the connection link. The actuation piston may include a material selected from the
 5 group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl
   chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer. The functional element may further include first and
   second actuation link members coupled to the actuating piston. The first and second
   actuation link members may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal,
   plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal
 0 polymer. The functional element may further include first and second claw members
   respectively coupled to the first and second actuation link members. The first and second
   claw members may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
   thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
   Linear movement of the actuating piston within the inner cavity of the connection link may
 5 cause the first and second claw members to open and close. An actuating cable may be
   coupled to the actuating piston. The actuating cable may include one or more selected from
   the group consisting of: a metal cable, a plastic cable, a sold wire cable, a braided cable and a
   stainless steel wire braided cable.
            The at least two segment links may include a material selected from the group
 0 consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a
   liquid-crystal polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene. The first segment link may include a
   material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
   stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene. The
   second segment link may include a material different from the first segment link.
25          In some embodiments, a first segment link of the at least two segment links may be
   coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least two
   segment links is coupled to one of a second shaft portion of the tool shaft and the functional
   element. The first shaft portion of the tool shaft includes a cable transitioning segment.
            The cable transitioning segment may include at least one articulation cable channel.
30 The at least one articulation cable channel may comprise first through fourth articulation
   cable channels that are spaced 90' apart around the circumference of the cable transitioning
   segment. At least two articulation cable channels of the cable transitioning segment may be
   aligned with at least two articulation cable channels of the first segment link.
                                                   -8-

            The cable transitioning segment may include an actuation cable channel. The
   actuation cable channel may be positioned at a diametric midpoint of the cable transitioning
   segment. The cable transitioning segment may include a material selected from the group
   consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a
 5 liquid-crystal polymer, and polytetrafluoroethylene.
            The first shaft portion of the tool shaft may include a flexible tool shaft portion. The
   flexible tool shaft portion may include a lumen guiding member having at least one cable
   channel. The at least one cable channel may include an actuating cable channel and at least
   one articulation cable channel. The actuating cable channel may be positioned at a diametric
 0 midpoint of the flexible tool shaft portion, and the at least one articulation cable channel may
   be positioned along a circumference of the flexible tool shaft portion. The lumen guiding
   member includes a five lumen stiffening rod. The lumen guiding member may include a
   material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
   stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer, and polytetrafluoroethylene.
 5          At least one cavity slot may be formed in the bottom surface of the first portion of the
   second segment. The at least one cavity slot may include a first cavity slot and a second
   cavity slot. The first cavity slot may extend from a first articulation cable channel of the at
   least one articulation cable channel to a second articulation cable channel of the at least one
   articulation cable channel. A first articulation cable may be positioned within the first
 0 articulation cable channel, the first cavity slot and the second articulation cable channel. The
   first articulation cable may be secured to a surface of the first cavity slot. The first
   articulation cable may be welded to the surface of the first cavity slot. The first articulation
   cable may be glued to the surface of the first cavity slot. The first articulation cable may be
   press fit within the first cavity slot. The second cavity slot may extend from a third
25 articulation cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel to a fourth articulation
   cable channel of the at least one articulation cable channel. A second articulation cable may
   be positioned within the third articulation cable channel, the second cavity slot and the fourth
   articulation cable channel.
            The at least one cavity slot may extend along an entire circumference of the bottom
30 surface of the cylindrical body portion of the second segment. The second opening of the at
   least one articulation cable channel may be partially defined by the at least one cavity slot.
   At least one articulation cable may be positioned within the at least one articulation cable
                                                    -9-

   channel, and wherein the at least one articulation cable may be secured to a surface of the at
   least one cavity slot.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region of the tool shaft may include a plurality
   of segment links. Each segment link of the plurality of segment links may be sequentially
 5 coupled to another segment link of the plurality of segment links. The plurality of segment
   links may articulate with respect to one another. A bottom surface of a first portion of a first
   segment link of the plurality of segment links may abut an upper surface of a first portion of a
   second segment link of the plurality of segment links to restrict an angle of articulation with
   respect to a center axis of each of the first and second segment links. The angle of
 0 articulation may be restricted to 120 to 15'.
            The first portion of the first segment link may include a cylindrical body portion and
   the first portion of the second segment link may include a cylindrical body portion. Each
   segment link of the plurality of segment links may be constructed and arranged to provide
   12' to 15' of articulation between the functional element and a working surface of the
 5 articulating probe. Each segment link of the plurality of segment links may be constructed
   and arranged to provide 120 to 150 of articulation between the functional element and a
   longitudinal axis of a cable transitioning segment of the tool shaft. Each segment link of the
   plurality of segment links may be constructed and arranged to provide 120 to 150 of
   articulation between the functional element and an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
 0          In some embodiments, the articulation region may be constructed and arranged to
   support a force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately         inch.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region may be constructed and arranged to
   support a force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately         inch
   when in a fully articulated state.
25          In another aspect, a surgical tool comprises: a functional element positioned at a distal
   end of a tool shaft; and a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft, wherein
   the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region may be positioned at the distal end of
   the tool shaft between the functional element and a first portion of the tool shaft.
30          In some embodiments, the articulation region may be positioned at a central region of
   the tool shaft. The articulation region may be positioned between a first portion of the tool
   shaft and a second portion of the tool shaft. The tool handle may be coupled to a proximal
   end of the first portion of the tool shaft.
                                                   -10-

            The articulation region may include a plurality of segment links. Each segment link
   of the plurality of segment links may be constructed and arranged to provide 120 to 15' of
   articulation between the functional element and an axis of the tool shaft. A first segment link
   of the plurality of segment links may be coupled to a first portion of the tool shaft and a
 5 second segment of the plurality of segment links is coupled to the functional element.
            The first segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second portion,
   wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion. The first portion may
   include a cylindrical body portion.
            The second segment link may include a body having a first portion and a second
 0 portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion. The first portion
   may include a cylindrical body portion.
            The semi-spherical body portion of the first segment link may mate with a semi
   spherical cavity portion of the first portion of the tool shaft and wherein the semi-spherical
   body portion of the second segment link may mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the
 5 first segment link. The functional element may include a connection link having a semi
   spherical body portion that mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the second segment
   link.
            Each of the plurality of segment links may include a body having a first portion and a
   second portion, wherein the second portion may include a semi-spherical body portion, and
 0 wherein each of the plurality of segment links may include at least one articulation cable
   channel and an actuating cable channel. The first portion may include a cylindrical body
   portion.
            At least one articulation cable may be positioned within the at least one articulation
   cable channel. The at least one articulation cable may be secured to a distal segment link of
25 the plurality of segment links. A tension applied to the at least one articulation cable may
   cause the functional element to articulate with respect to the tool shaft.
            An actuating cable may be positioned within the actuating cable channel. A tension
   applied to the actuating cable may cause the functional element to change state.
            In some embodiments, the tool shaft includes a five-lumen extrusion positioned
30 within a wire coil. A tool shaft cover may surround the wire coil. The tool shaft cover may
   include a Pebax@-type shaft cover.
                                                  - 11 -

            In another aspect, a surgical tool comprises: a functional element positioned at a distal
   end of a tool shaft; and a tool handle positioned at a proximal end of the tool shaft, wherein
   the tool shaft includes an articulation region.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region may include a plurality of segment links.
 5 A first segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a body having first and
   second concave cavities formed at opposite end surfaces of the body. The first concave
   cavity may be a semi-spherical cavity. The first concave cavity may be a semi-ellipsoidal
   cavity. The second concave cavity may be a semi-spherical cavity. The second concave
   cavity may be a semi-ellipsoidal cavity.
 0          A second segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a body having
   first and second convex body portions formed at opposite end surfaces of a center body
   portion. The first convex body portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The first
   convex body portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The second convex body
   portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The second convex body portion may be a
 5 semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The center body portion may be cylindrical.
            One of the first and second convex body portions of the second segment link may
   mate with one of the first and second concave cavities of the first segment link. The other of
   the first and second convex body portions of the second segment link may mate with a
   concave cavity of the tool shaft. The other of the first and second concave cavities of the first
 0 segment link may mate with a convex body portion of a third segment link of the plurality of
   segment links. The third segment link may be coupled to the functional element.
            In some embodiments, a first segment link of the plurality of segment links may
   include a first body having a first protrusion extending from a surface of the first body. The
   first body may be a cylindrical body. The first body may have an elliptical cross-section.
25 The first protrusion may be a cylindrical protrusion. The first protrusion may have an
   elliptical cross-section.
            A second segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a second body
   having a second protrusion extending from a first surface of the second body. The second
   body may be a cylindrical body. The second body may have an elliptical cross-section. The
30 second protrusion may be a cylindrical protrusion. The second protrusion may have an
   elliptical cross-section.
            The second segment link may include a concave cavity formed in a second surface of
   the second body. The concave cavity may be a semi-spherical cavity. The concave cavity
                                                  -12-

   may be a semi-ellipsoidal cavity. The first protrusion of the first segment link may mate with
   the concave cavity of the second segment link. The first segment link may be coupled to the
   functional element. The second protrusion of the second segment link may mate with a
   concave cavity of the tool shaft.
 5         In some embodiments, a first segment link of the plurality of segment links may
   include a body having a first body portion and a second body portion. The first body portion
   may include a cylindrical body portion. The first body portion may have an elliptical cross
   section. The second body portion may include a convex body portion. The convex body
   portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The convex body portion may be a semi
 0 ellipsoidal body portion.
           A second segment link of the plurality of segment links may include a body having
   center body portion, a convex body portion coupled to a first surface of the center body
   portion, and a plurality of posts extending outwardly from a second surface of the center body
   portion. The convex body portion may be a semi-spherical body portion. The convex body
 5 portion may be a semi-ellipsoidal body portion. The center body portion may be cylindrical.
   The center body portion may have an elliptical cross-section. The plurality of posts may be
   cylindrical. The plurality of posts may have elliptical cross-sections. The plurality of posts
   may include one of rounded or beveled upper edges.
           The plurality of posts may be arranged along a common radial path relative to a center
 0 axis the second surface of the center body portion. The plurality of posts may include a
   center post and two or more outer posts, the center post being positioned at a diametric
   midpoint of the second surface. The two or more outer posts may be arranged along a
   common radial path relative to the center post. The outer posts may be equally spaced apart.
   The two or more outer posts may each have a first height greater than a second height of the
25 center post.
           The second body portion of the first segment link may mate with the plurality of posts
   extending outwardly from the second surface of the center body portion. The convex body
   portion of the second segment link may mate with a plurality of posts of a third segment link
   of the plurality of segment links. The third segment link may be coupled to the tool shaft.
30         In another aspect, a surgical tool comprises an elongated first assembly; and an
   elongated second assembly comprising: an elongated support element; an elongated
   activation element moveable relative to the support element; and a functional mechanism
   coupled to the activation element, a movement of the functional mechanism being in response
                                                 - 13-

   to a movement of the activation element, wherein a force imparted by the movement of the
   activation element is isolated from the first assembly by the support element.
   In some embodiments, the second assembly further comprises a clevis coupled to the support
   element.
 5         In some embodiments, the clevis is coupled to a distal end of the support element.
           In some embodiments, an inner surface of the clevis is coupled to an outer surface of
   the support element.
           In some embodiments, the clevis is bonded to the support element.
           In some embodiments, the bond includes an adhesive.
 0         In some embodiments, the clevis is welded to the support element.
           In some embodiments, the clevis and the support element are coupled by at least one
   of swaging, threading, pinning, snap-fitting, press-fitting, or coupling together.
           In some embodiments, the activation element moves freely along a direction of
   extension of the support element and the clevis.
 5         In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises a longitudinal clearance
   between the clevis and a distal end of the first assembly.
           In some embodiments, the longitudinal clearance is dimensioned, in a longitudinal
   direction, to prevent contact between the clevis and the distal end of the first assembly when
   the force is imparted by the movement of the activation element.
 0         In some embodiments, the dimension of the longitudinal clearance ensures the
   isolation of the imparted force.
           In some embodiments, the dimension of the longitudinal clearance provides for play
   between the clevis and the distal end of the first assembly when the force is imparted.
           In some embodiments, the dimension of the longitudinal clearance is reduced when
25 the force is imparted.
           In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises a compressible material
   positioned in the longitudinal clearance.
           In some embodiments, the compressible material comprises at least one of elastomer,
   polymer, rubber, foam, sponge material, or combinations thereof.
30         In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises a compressible element
   positioned in the longitudinal clearance.
                                                  -14-

           In some embodiments, the compressible element comprises at least one of a spring, a
   compressible disk, an elastomeric disk, a hydraulic piston, a pneumatic piston, or
   combinations thereof.
           In some embodiments, the clevis includes a base and a protrusion extending from the
 5 base.
           In some embodiments, the protrusion extends into a recess of a distal end of the first
   assembly.
           In some embodiments, the recess includes an inner end wall and a sidewall.
           In some embodiments, a longitudinal clearance is between the protrusion and the
 0 inner end wall of the recess.
           In some embodiments, the base is wider than the protrusion.
           In some embodiments, a longitudinal clearance is between the base of the clevis and
   the distal end of the first assembly.
           In some embodiments, an outer width of the base is equal to an outer width of the
 5 distal end of the first assembly.
           In some embodiments, the protrusion has a cylindrical outer surface and the distal end
   has a cylindrical inner surface.
           In some embodiments, the cylindrical outer surface of the protrusion includes at least
   one first flat portion that registers with a corresponding second flat portion of the inner
 0 surface of the distal end.
           In some embodiments, the registration of the first and second flat portions prevents
   twisting of the second assembly relative to the first assembly.
           In some embodiments, the clevis includes a housing for receiving the functional
   mechanism.
25         In some embodiments, the activation element is coupled to the functional mechanism
   at the housing.
           In some embodiments, the housing is dimensioned to permit the functional
   mechanism to expand and contract relative to the housing during the movement of the
   functional mechanism.
30         In some embodiments, the second assembly is in communication with the first
   assembly so that the support element of the second assembly is movable relative to the first
   assembly.
                                                   - 15 -

            In some embodiments, the support element includes a lumen that extends along a
   direction of extension of the support element.
            In some embodiments, the activation element is slidably positioned in the lumen of
   the support element.
 5          In some embodiments, the activation element slidably communicates with the support
   element in a direction of extension of the support element.
            In some embodiments, the support element is constructed and arranged as a coil.
            In some embodiments, the support element is constructed and arranged as a rod.
            In some embodiments, the rod has limited compression in a direction of extension of
 0 the support element and is flexible in a lateral direction relative to the direction of extension.
            In some embodiments, the support element is constructed and arranged as a hollow
   tube.
            In some embodiments, the support element comprises an arrangement of multiple
   links.
 5          In some embodiments, the support element has limited compression in a direction of
   extension of the support element and is flexible in a lateral direction relative to the direction
   of extension.
            In some embodiments, the support element absorbs a load caused by the force
   imparted by the movement of the activation element.
 0          In some embodiments, the support element prevents a force from being applied to the
   first assembly when the force is imparted by the movement of the activation element.
            In some embodiments, the activation element is freely moveable relative to the
   support element.
            In some embodiments, the activation element moves freely within the support element.
25          In some embodiments, the activation element moves freely proximal to an outer
   surface of the support element.
            In some embodiments, movement of the activation element is induced by a handle at a
   proximal end of the surgical tool.
            In some embodiments, the activation element is constructed and arranged as a wire.
30           In some embodiments, the wire is constructed and arranged to deliver energy and/or
   data.
              In some embodiments, the activation element is constructed and arranged as a cable.
              In some embodiments, the activation element is constructed and arranged as a fiber.
                                                 - 16-

            In some embodiments, the fiber is constructed and arranged to deliver energy and/or
   data.
            In some embodiments, the activation element comprises a lubricious outer surface
   portion.
 5          In some embodiments, the lubricious outer surface portion comprises a material
   selected from the group consisting of: Teflon@; graphite; a hydrophilic coating; a surface
   area reducing texture; and combinations thereof.
             In some embodiments, the functional mechanism comprises at least one of: a
   grasper; a scissor; a cutter; a claw; or a knife.
 0           In some embodiments, the functional mechanism comprises at least one of: an
   ablator, a cauterizer, a drug delivery apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a
   pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a camera, a magnet, a heating element or a cryogenic element.
   In some embodiments, the functional mechanism comprises a spring-biased tool.
           In some embodiments, the spring-biased tool operates to apply a force relative to the
 5 movement of the activation element.
           In some embodiments, the spring-biased tool operates to apply a force to reset the
   functional mechanism.
           In some embodiments, the spring-biased tool operates to apply a force that is opposite
   the force imparted by the movement of the activation element.
 0          In some embodiments, the functional element is constructed and arranged to
   articulate with respect to a direction of extension of the first assembly.
           In some embodiments, the functional mechanism includes an actuating piston coupled
   to the activation element to link the activation element to the functional mechanism.
           In some embodiments, the actuating piston is positioned within an inner cavity of a
25 distal and of the first assembly.
           In some embodiments, the functional element further includes first and second
   actuation link members coupled to the actuating piston.
           In some embodiments, the first and second actuation link members include a material
   selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
30 polyvinyl chloride; liquid-crystal polymer; and combinations thereof.
           In some embodiments, the functional element further includes first and second claw
   members respectively coupled to the first and second actuation link members.
                                                   - 17 -

   In some embodiments, the first and second claw members include a material selected from
   the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl
   chloride; liquid-crystal polymer; and combinations thereof.
           In some embodiments, linear movement of the actuating piston within the inner cavity
 5 causes the first and second claw members to open and close.
           In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises a handle coupled to a
   proximal end of the support element at a proximal end of the first assembly.
           In some embodiments, the handle controls the surgical tool.
           In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises at least one steering cable
 0 that operates to control articulation of the first assembly, In some embodiments, the at least
   one steering cable is coupled to the handle.
           In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises a ball and socket
   mechanism in communication with the handle that controls movement of the at least one
   steering cable.
 5         In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises a locking mechanism that
   locks a position of the ball and socket mechanism.
           In some embodiments, the locking mechanism comprises a threaded nut or a thumb
   screw.
            In some embodiments, the activation element is coupled to the handle.
 0          In some embodiments, the handle includes a trigger and in some embodiments, the
   activation element is coupled to the trigger.
            In some embodiments, the trigger is spring-loaded.
            In some embodiments, activation of the trigger moves the activation element in a first
   direction.
25          In some embodiments, release of the trigger by an operator causes the trigger to reset
   in turn allowing the activation element to move in a second direction opposite the first
   direction.
            In some embodiments, the trigger initiates the movement of the activation element in
   a direction toward the trigger.
30          In some embodiments, the handle includes a mount at which the support element is
   coupled.
            In some embodiments, the support element is coupled to the mount at a proximal end
   of the support element.
                                                   - 18-

            In some embodiments, the handle further includes a trigger and in some embodiments,
   the activation element extends through the mount to the trigger.
            In some embodiments, the handle includes one selected from the group consisting of:
   scissor handles; a palm-held grip; a thumb/index/middle finger grip; a pistol grip; a
 5 reciprocating trigger; and combinations thereof.
            In some embodiments, the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed and
   arranged to lock an articulated position of the functional mechanism.
            In some embodiments, the surgical tool includes a locking device constructed and
   arranged to lock an operational mode of the functional mechanism.
 0          In some embodiments, the first assembly is adjacent an outer surface of the second
   assembly.
            In some embodiments, the first and second assemblies extend in a same direction of
   extension.
            In some embodiments, the first assembly and the second assembly are co-located in a
 5 lumen of an articulating probe.
            In some embodiments, at least a portion of the second assembly is positioned in the
   first assembly.
            In some embodiments, the isolation of the force imparted by the movement of the
   activation element relative to the first assembly by the support element prevents binding at an
 0 articulation region of the first assembly.
            In some embodiments, the isolation of the force imparted by the movement of the
   activation element relative to the first assembly by the support element prevents binding of
   articulation segments at an articulation region of the first assembly.
            In some embodiments, the surgical tool is constructed and arranged to be controlled
25 via a human interface device.
            In some embodiments, the human interface device includes one selected from the
   group consisting of: a haptic controller; a joystick; a track ball; a mouse; an
   electromechanical device; and combinations thereof.
            In some embodiments, the first assembly comprises: a tool shaft; an articulation
30 region comprising a plurality of articulation segments; and at least two steering cables
   extending through the tool shaft to the articulation region.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region is at a distal end of the surgical tool.
                                                 -19-

            In some embodiments, the at least two steering cables control an articulation of the
   articulation segments.
            In some embodiments, at least one of the articulation segments includes at least one
   articulation cable channel through which a steering cable of the at least two steering cables
 5 extends.
            In some embodiments, the at least one articulation cable channel comprises first
   through third articulation cable channels that are spaced approximately 200 apart around a
   circumference or perimeter of the articulation segment.
            In some embodiments, the at least one articulation cable channel comprises first
 0 through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced approximately 90' apart around a
   circumference or perimeter of the articulation segment.
            In some embodiments, the at least one articulation cable channel comprises first
   through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced approximately 90' apart from one
   another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the first assembly.
 5          In some embodiments, the at least two steering cables operate to lock an articulation
   position of the articulation region.
            In some embodiments, the surgical tool comprises a locking mechanism that retains
   the steering cables in a locked position.
            In some embodiments, the force imparted by the movement of the activation element
 0 is isolated from the articulation region by the support element.
            In some embodiments, the force imparted by the movement of the activation element
   is independent from an orientation of the articulation region.
            In some embodiments, the force imparted by the movement of the activation element
   is independent from a force applied to the at least two steering cables.
25          In some embodiments, the isolation of the force imparted by the movement of the
   activation element from the articulation region prevents binding of the at least two steering
   cables.
            In some embodiments, the isolation of the force imparted by the movement of the
   activation element from the articulation region prevents inadvertent locking of neighboring
30 articulation segments.
            In some embodiments, the isolation of the force imparted by the movement of the
   activation element from the articulation region avoids movement of the articulation region in
   response to a movement of the activation element
                                                 - 20-

            In some embodiments, the tool shaft includes a lumen guiding member for receiving
   the activation element and the at least two steering cables.
            In some embodiments, the lumen guiding member includes a multi-lumen stiffening
   rod.
 5          In some embodiments, the multi-lumen stiffening rod includes a first cable channel
   for receiving the activation element and a plurality of second cable channels for receiving the
   at least two steering cables.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region of the tool shaft includes at least two
   segment links.
 0          In some embodiments, a first segment link of the at least two segment links is coupled
   to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second segment link of the at least two segment
   links is in communication with the functional mechanism.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region of the tool shaft further includes one or
   more third segment links coupled between the first segment link and the second segment link.
 5          In some embodiments, the first segment link includes a body having a first portion
   and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion.
            In some embodiments, the first segment link includes a body having a first portion
   and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a convex body portion.
            In some embodiments, the convex body portion is a semi-spherical body portion.
 0          In some embodiments, the convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
            In some embodiments, the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
            In some embodiments, a semi-spherical body portion of the first segment link mates
   with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first shaft portion.
            In some embodiments, a semi-spherical body portion of the first segment link mates
25 with a concave cavity portion of the first shaft portion.
            In some embodiments, the second segment link includes a body having a first portion
   and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes a convex body portion.
            In some embodiments, the convex body portion is a semi-spherical body portion.
            In some embodiments, the convex body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
30          In some embodiments, the first portion includes a cylindrical body portion.
            In some embodiments, a bottom surface of a first portion of a first segment link of the
   plurality of segment links abuts an upper surface of a first portion of a second segment link of
                                                    - 21 -

   the plurality of segment links to restrict an angle of articulation with respect to a center axis
   of each of the first and second segment links.
            In some embodiments, the angle of articulation is restricted to approximately 120 to
   150.
 5          In some embodiments, each segment link of the at least two is constructed and
   arranged to provide approximately 120 to 150 of articulation between the functional
   mechanism and a working surface of the surgical tool.
            In some embodiments, each segment link of the at least two is constructed and
   arranged to provide approximately 120 to 150 of articulation between the functional
 0 mechanism and a working surface of the tool shaft.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region is constructed and arranged to support a
   force of 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately         inch.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region is constructed and arranged to support a
   force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately          inch when in a
 5 fully articulated state.
            In some embodiments, a distal end of the support element is positioned at the second
   segment link.
            In some embodiments, the articulation region of the first assembly includes a lumen
   and wherein a portion of the second assembly is positioned in the lumen of the first assembly.
 0          In some embodiments, each of the at least two steering cables has a proximal end
   terminating at a surgical tool handle, and wherein the movement of the articulation segments
   relative to each other is controlled by the surgical tool handle.
            In some embodiments, the first assembly is adjacent an outer surface of the second
   assembly and extends along a common direction of extension as the second assembly.
25          In some embodiments, the surgical tool further comprises a sheath, the first assembly
   and the second assembly co-located in a lumen of a sheath.
            In some embodiments, the activation element extends along an outer surface of the
   first assembly.
            In another aspect, provided is a method of performing a medical procedure using the
30 surgical tool referred to herein.
            In another aspect, provided is a system for performing a medical procedure
   comprising an articulating probe including inner and outer sleeves; and a surgical tool
   comprising:
                                                  - 22 -

   an elongated first assembly; an elongated second assembly comprising:
   an elongated support element; an elongated activation element moveable relative to the
   support element; and a functional mechanism coupled to the activation element, a movement
   of the functional mechanism being in response to a movement of the activation element,
 5 wherein a force imparted by the movement of the activation element is isolated from the first
   assembly by the support element, and wherein the articulating probe and the surgical tool are
   independently controllable.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 0          The foregoing and other objects, features and advantages of embodiments of the
   present inventive concepts will be apparent from the more particular description of preferred
   embodiments, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which like reference characters
   refer to the same elements throughout the different views. The drawings are not necessarily
   to scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the preferred
 5 embodiments.
            FIG. 1A is a perspective view of an articulating probe of a system for performing a
   medical procedure, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
            FIGs. 1B and IC are end views of a working surface of the articulating probe
   illustrated at FIG. 1A, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
 0          FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with
   embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
            FIGs. 3A and 3B are perspective views of a distal end of the articulating surgical tool
   illustrated at FIG. 2, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
            FIG. 4A is a perspective view of segment links of the articulating surgical tool
25 illustrated at FIG. 3, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
            FIG. 4B is a perspective view of segment links of the articulating surgical tool
   illustrated at FIG. 3, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
            FIG. 4C is a cross-sectional perspective view of the segment links illustrated at FIG.
   4, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
30          FIGs. 5A and 5B are perspective views illustrating articulation ranges of the
   articulating surgical tool illustrated at FIG. 2, in accordance with embodiments of the present
   inventive concepts;
                                                   - 23 -

           FIG. 6A is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
   configuration of an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present
   inventive concepts;
           FIG. 6B is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
 5 configuration of an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present
   inventive concepts;
           FIG. 6C is a sectional view of the third segment links illustrated in FIG. 6B, in
   accordance with embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
           FIG. 7 is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
 0 an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive
   concepts;
           FIG. 8A is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
   an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive
   concepts;
 5         FIG. 8B is a perspective view of a segment link, in accordance with embodiments of
   the present inventive concepts;
           FIG. 8C is a top view of the segment link illustrated in FIG. 8B, in accordance with
   embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
           FIG. 8D is a perspective view of a segment link, in accordance with embodiments of
 0 the present inventive concepts;
           FIG. 8E is a top view of the segment link illustrated in FIG. 8D, in accordance with
   embodiments of the present inventive concepts;
           FIG. 9 is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
   an articulating surgical tool, in accordance with embodiments of the present inventive
25 concepts;
           FIG. 10 is a cross-sectional side view of an articulating surgical tool, in accordance
   with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts;
           FIG. 11 is a detailed view of the articulating surgical tool illustrated in FIG. 10, in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts;
30         FIG. 12 is an oblique view of the articulating surgical tool of FIGs. 10 and 11, in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts;
           FIG. 13 is an expanded view of the handle assembly illustrated in FIG. 10, in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts;
                                                 - 24-

           FIG. 14A is a cross-sectional side view of an articulating surgical tool having a
   functional element in a first state, in accordance with an embodiment of the present inventive
   concepts;
           FIG. 14B is a cross-sectional side view of the articulating surgical tool of FIG. 14A,
 5 where the functional element is in a second state; and
           FIGs. 15A-15C are cross-sectional side views of an articulating surgical tool, each
   side view representing a different state of the articulating surgical tool, in accordance with
   another embodiment of the present inventive concepts.
 0
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
           The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments
   and is not intended to be limiting of the inventive concepts. As used herein, the singular
   forms "a," "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context
 5 clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms "comprises,"
   "comprising," "includes" and/or "including," when used herein, specify the presence of stated
   features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the
   presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements,
   components, and/or groups thereof.
 0         It will be understood that, although the terms first, second, third etc. may be used
   herein to describe various limitations, elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections,
   these limitations, elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections should not be limited
   by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one limitation, element, component,
   region, layer or section from another limitation, element, component, region, layer or section.
25 Thus, a first limitation, element, component, region, layer or section discussed below could
   be termed a second limitation, element, component, region, layer or section without departing
   from the teachings of the present application.
           It will be further understood that when an element is referred to as being "on" or
   "connected" or "coupled" to another element, it can be directly on or above, or connected or
30 coupled to, the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast, when an
   element is referred to as being "directly on" or "directly connected" or "directly coupled" to
   another element, there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the
   relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion (e.g., "between" versus
                                                  - 25 -

   "directly between," "adjacent" versus "directly adjacent," etc.). When an element is referred
   to herein as being "over" another element, it can be over or under the other element, and
   either directly coupled to the other element, or intervening elements may be present, or the
   elements may be spaced apart by a void or gap.
 5         FIG. 1A is a perspective view of an articulating probe of a system for performing a
   medical procedure, and FIGs. 1B and IC are end views of a working surface of the
   articulating probe illustrated at FIG. 1A. A system 100 for performing a medical procedure,
   such as a transoral robotic surgery procedure, may include an articulating probe 120 for
   guiding one or more surgical tools 200, 200a-d and/or tool sheaths 200, 200a within a patient
 0 body. The system 100 may include one or more features of the surgical positioning and
   support system described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/368,257, filed
   July 28, 2010 corresponding to PCT application serial number PCT/US2011/044811, filed
   July 21, 2011, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
           An operator, such as a medical professional, may control the articulating probe 120
 5 via a human interface device (HID) to manipulate or otherwise control the functions and
   movement of the articulating probe 120. The HID may include one selected from the group
   consisting of: a haptic controller, a joystick, a track ball, a mouse and an electromechanical
   device.
           The articulating probe 120 may include an inner sleeve (not shown) and an outer
 0 sleeve 160, which can advance or retract with respect to one another during manipulation of
   the articulating probe 120. For example, the inner and outer sleeves of the articulating probe
   120, which may include a plurality of inner links and a plurality of outer links 160, 160a-d,
   can be configured in one of a limp mode and a rigid mode so as to facilitate the manipulation
   of the articulating probe 120. For example, the inner and outer sleeves may be configured in
25 one of the limp mode and the rigid mode via one or more steering cables of the articulation
   probe 120.
           Exemplary probes are further described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
   2009/017115 1, published on July 2, 2009, by Choset, et al., and U.S. Patent Application
   Publication No. 2008/0039690, published February 14, 2008, by Zubiate, et al., the contents
30 of each being herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
           The articulating probe 120 may include at least one working channel 170, 170a-c
   having an opening at a working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. The working
   channel 170, 170a-c may extend throughout the articulating probe 120, for example, from a
                                                  - 26  -

   proximal end to a distal end of the articulating probe 120. The working surface 180 may be
   positioned at a distal end of the articulating probe 120. For example, the working surface 180
   may be positioned at a distal end of an outer distal link 160a of the articulating probe 120.
           The articulating probe 120 may include at least one side port or guide hole 166, 166a
 5 b. For example, in the embodiments shown at FIG. 1, the articulating probe 120 includes first
   and second side ports 166a, 166b formed in flanges 165a, 165b of an outer link 160a. The
   articulating probe 120 may further include at least one feed tube 135, 135a-b coupled to the
   side port or guide hole 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120.
           Although first and second side ports 166a, 166b are shown at FIG. 1A, a plurality of
 0 first and second side ports 166a, 166b may be formed in a plurality of flanges 165a, 165b of
   the articulating probe 120. For example, multiple first and/or second side ports 166a, 166b
   may be positioned along the outer sleeve 160 of the articulating probe 120 so as to provide a
   guide for one or more feed tubes 135, 135a-b that articulate in common with the articulating
   probe 120.
 5         The articulating probe may include one or more light sources 175, 175a-c provided at
   the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. The light sources 175, 175a-c may
   include electron stimulated light sources such as electron stimulated luminescence light
   sources, incandescent light sources such as incandescent light bulbs, electroluminescent light
   sources such as light-emitting diodes, and gas discharge light sources such as fluorescent
 0 lamps.
           The light sources 175, 175a-c may further include optical fibers, which can be
   configured to transmit light to and from the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120.
           The system 100 may further include one or more surgical tools 200, 200a-d having an
   articulation region 235, 235a-b. The system 100 may be configured to allow an operator to
25 independently control the articulating probe 120 and the surgical tools 200, 200a-d. For
   example, the articulating probe 120 may be controlled via a HID and the surgical tools 200,
   200a-d may be controlled via a tool handle (see for example, tool handle 205 shown at FIG.
   2).
           The system 100 may be configured with any number of surgical tools 200, 200a-d,
30 which can be slidably positioned within a working channel 170, 170a-c of the articulating
   probe 120 and/or a side port 166, 166a-b or guide hole 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe
   120.
                                                  - 27 -

           The articulating probe 120 may be configured to guide one or more surgical tools 200,
   200a-d, for example, during a medical procedure. For example, prior, during or after a
   medical procedure, a portion of the surgical tool shaft may be positioned within at least one
   of the working channels 170, 170a-c of the articulating probe 120. The articulating probe
 5 120 may be further configured to allow an operator to slidably position the surgical tool shaft
   within at least one of the working channels 170, 170a-c so that a functional element 250,
   250a-b of the surgical tool 200, 200a-d can be extended outwardly from a working channel
   opening.
           In a further example, prior, during or after a medical procedure, a portion of the
 0 surgical tool shaft may be positioned within at least one side port or guide hole 166, 166a-b
   of the articulating probe 120. The articulating probe 120 may be further configured to allow
   an operator to slidably position the surgical tool shaft within at least one of the side ports or
   guide holes 166, 166a-b so that a functional element 250, 250a-b of the surgical tool 200,
   200a-d can be extended outwardly from the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120.
 5 A portion of the surgical tool shaft may pass through at least one side port or guide hole 166,
   166a-b of the articulating probe 120, such that the side port or guide hole 166, 166a-b guides
   the surgical tool shaft along an outer surface of the outer sleeve 160 of the articulating probe
   120.
           The articulating probe 120 may include side port or guide hole locks 1040, 1050,
 0 which can be configured in one of a locked or unlocked mode. The lock 1040, 1050 may be
   constructed to secure a position of a surgical tool 200, 200a-b positioned within the side ports
   or guide holes 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120, thus preventing the surgical tool 200,
   200a-b from sliding within the side ports or guide holes 166, 166a-b.
           In some embodiments, the articulating probe 120 may include a pneumatic or
25 hydraulic lock 1050, such as a solenoid or air/fluid pouch. For example, the pneumatic or
   hydraulic lock 1050 may be positioned within the side ports or guide holes 166, 166a-b of the
   articulating probe 120. The articulating probe 120 may further comprise a channel or tube
   1055 for supplying pressurized gas or liquid to the pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050.
           In some embodiments, the articulating probe 120 may include an electrically activated
30 lock 1040, such as a solenoid, piezoelectric actuator or nitinol actuated lock. For example,
   the electrically activated lock 1040 may be positioned within the side ports or guide holes
   166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120. The articulating probe 120 may further comprise a
                                                 -28-

   conductor 1045 such as a wire or cable for supplying an actuating signal to the electrically
   activated lock 1040.
            Referring to FIG. IB, the electrically activated lock 1040 is shown positioned within
   the first side port or guide hole 166a of the articulating probe 120, and the pneumatic or
 5 hydraulic lock 1050 is shown positioned within the second side port or guide hole 166b of the
   articulating probe 120. In this illustration, the electrically activated lock 1040 and the
   pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050 are shown in the unlocked mode so as to allow an operator
   or user of the system 100 to slidably position a surgical tool shaft within the side port or
   guide holes 166, 166a-b of the articulating probe 120.
 0          Referring to FIG. IC, the pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050 is shown in the locked
   mode. In the locked mode, the pneumatic or hydraulic lock 1050 expands within the side
   port or guide hole 166, 166b so as to secure the shaft of the surgical tool 200, 200b within the
   side port or guide hole 166, 166b. Although not shown, the electrically activated lock 1040
   may be configured to expand within the side port or guide hole 166, 166a so as to secure the
 5 shaft of the surgical tool 200, 200a within the side port or guide hole 166, 166a.
            The functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and arranged to articulate
   with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. For example, in the
   embodiments shown at FIG. 1A, the functional elements 250a, 250b are shown articulated
   with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120. The functional
 0 elements 250, 250a, 250b may also be constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to
   an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
            The functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and arranged to articulate
   between 0' and 900 with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120
   and/or an axis of extension of the tool shaft. The functional element 250, 250a-b may be
25 constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and 135' with respect to the working
   surface 180 of the articulating probe 120 and/or an axis of extension of the tool shaft. The
   functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and arranged to articulate between 0' and
   180' with respect to the working surface 180 of the articulating probe 120 and/or an axis of
   extension of the tool shaft. The functional element 250, 250a-b may be constructed and
30 arranged to articulate at an angle greater than 180' with respect to the working surface 180 of
   the articulating probe 120 and/or an axis of extension of the tool shaft.
            The functional element 250 may include one or more selected from the group
   consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an ablator, a cauterizer, a drug delivery
                                                   - 29 -

    apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a camera,
    a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic element. For example, the functional element
    250a of a first surgical tool 200a may include a cutter having fist and second blades 1010.
    The functional element 250b of a second surgical tool 200b may include a heating element,
 5  cryogenic element, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor and/or a radiation source 1030. The
    functional element 250c of a third surgical tool 200c may include one or more EKG
    electrodes or heart defibrillator electrodes 1015, 1020. The functional element 250d or a
    fourth surgical tool 200d may include a camera 1025.
 0          FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an articulating surgical tool. A surgical tool 200 may
    include a tool handle 205, a surgical tool shaft 215, 220 having an articulation region 235 and
    a functional element 250.
            The surgical tool 200 may be constructed and arranged to be controlled via a surgical
    tool handle 205. The surgical tool handle 205 may include one selected from the group
 5  consisting of: scissor handles, a palm-held grip, a thumb/index/middle finger grip and a pistol
    grip. For example, in the embodiment shown in FIG. 2, the surgical tool handle 205 includes
    first and second actuating handle elements 206a, 206b that are coupled at a ball mechanism
    211 and a handle link mechanism 207. The handle link mechanism 207 may include first and
    second links 207a, 207c that are coupled at a link body 207b.
 0O         In this exemplary embodiment, the surgical tool includes a ball mechanism 211 that is
    constructed and arranged to be coupled to a socket mechanism 212 for manipulating or
    otherwise controlling the functions and movement of the surgical tool 200. Although not
    shown, one or more articulation cables 410 may be secured to the ball mechanism 211, and
    one or more actuating cables 420 may be secured to the link body 207b of the handle link
25  mechanism 207. In this manner, a movement of the ball mechanism 211 with respect to the
    socket mechanism 212 can provide tension or slack on one or more of the articulation cables
    410 secured to the ball mechanism 211, thereby adjusting an articulation state of articulation
    region 235. In addition, a scissoring movement of the first and second actuating handle
    elements 206a, 206b can cause the link body 207b of the link mechanism 207 to extend
30  outwardly (e.g., along the longitudinal axis) from the ball mechanism 211, thereby applying a
    tension on the one or more actuating cables 420.
            The surgical tool shaft 215, 220 may include a first tool shaft 215 and second tool
    shaft 220. A proximal end 215p of the first tool shaft 215 may be coupled to the tool handle
                                                  -30-

   205, for example, via the ball and socket mechanisms 211, 212, and a distal end 215d of the
   first tool shaft 215 may be coupled to a proximal end 220p of the second tool shaft 220. A
   distal end 220d of the second tool shaft 220 may be directly coupled to the articulation region
   235 or indirectly coupled to the articulation region 235. For example, in the embodiments
 5 shown in FIGs. 2 and 3A, the distal end 220d of the second tool shaft 220 is coupled to the
   articulation region 235 through an optional cable transitioning segment 225.
            Although the articulation region 235 is shown at a distal end 230 of the surgical tool
   200, the articulation region 235 may be provided at any position between the functional
   element 250 and the proximal end 215p of the first tool shaft 215.
 0          The articulation region 235 may be constructed and arranged to support a force of
   approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately        inch. In some
   embodiments, the articulation region 235 is constructed and arranged to support a force of
   approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately        inch when in a fully
   articulated state.
 5          Referring to FIGs. 3A and 3B, the cable transitioning segment 225 may include at
   least one articulation cable channel 226. For example, the at least one articulation cable
   channel 226 may include first through fourth articulation cable channels 226 that are spaced
   approximately 900 apart around the circumference or perimeter of the cable transitioning
   segment 225. Alternatively, the at least one articulation cable channel 226 may include first
 0 through third articulation cable channels 226 that are spaced approximately 1200 apart around
   the circumference or perimeter of the cable transitioning segment 225. At least two
   articulation cable channels 226a, 226c of the cable transitioning segment 225 may be aligned
   with at least two articulation cable channels 313a, 313c of a first segment link 236 of the
   articulation region 235 and/or at least two articulation cable channels 353a, 353c of a second
25 segment link 237 of the articulation region 235. In this manner, one or more articulation
   cables 410 can be positioned within the cable channels 313a, 313c, 353a, 353c of the first and
   second segment links 236, 237.
            In some embodiments, the cable transitioning segment 225 may include n number of
   articulation cable channels 226, where n is a real number greater than 0. For cases where n is
30 greater than 1, the n number of articulation cable channels 226 may be evenly spaced apart
   around the circumference or perimeter of the cable transitioning segment 225 or it may not.
            The cable transitioning segment 225 may include an actuation cable channel 227. The
   actuation cable channel 227 may be positioned at a diametric midpoint of the cable
                                                 - 31 -

   transitioning segment 225, and may be aligned with one or more actuation cable channels 314,
   354 of one or more segment links 236, 237 of the articulation region 235. In this manner, one
   or more actuation cables 420 can be positioned within the cable channels 314, 354 of the first
   and second segment links 236, 237.
 5          The cable transitioning segment 225 may include a material selected from the group
   consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a
   liquid-crystal polymer, polytetrafluoroethylene, and a combination of these materials or other
   suitable material.
            Referring to FIG. 3B, the cable transitioning segment 225 and/or the surgical tool
 0 shaft 220 may comprise a lumen extrusion 225a positioned within a wire coil 225b, such as a
   flat wire coil or spring. The wire coil 225b may increase a stiffness of the cable transitioning
   segment 225 and/or the surgical tool shaft 220 so as to prevent twisting and/or kinking of the
   surgical tool 200. The wire coil 225b may further increase a radial stiffness of the cable
   transitioning segment 225 and/or the surgical tool shaft 220 so as to prevent a radial collapse
 5 of tool shaft and/or to prevent pinching the cables 410, 420. A tool shaft cover 225c such as
   a Pebax@-type shaft cover may be provided to cover the wire coil 225b.
            Referring back to FIG. 2, the first tool shaft 215 may include a rigid tool shaft and the
   second tool shaft 220 may include a flexible tool shaft; however, the tool shafts 215, 220 of
   the surgical tool 200 may both include rigid or flexible tool shafts. That is, the first and
 0 second tool shafts 215, 220 of the surgical tool 200 may include any combination of rigid and
   flexible tool shafts.
            The flexible tool shafts 215, 220 may include a lumen guiding member having at least
   one cable channel. In some embodiments, the at least one cable channel includes an
   actuating cable channel and at least one articulation cable channel. The actuating cable
25 channel may be positioned at a diametric midpoint of the flexible tool shaft, and the at least
   one articulation cable channel may be positioned along a circumference or perimeter of the
   flexible tool shaft portion. For example, the lumen guiding member may include a five
   lumen stiffening rod having an actuating cable channel and first through fourth articulation
   cable channels.
30          The lumen guiding member may include a material selected from the group consisting
   of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal
   polymer, polytetrafluoroethylene, and a combination of these materials or other suitable
   material.
                                                   -32-

            The functional element 250 of the surgical tool 200 may be provided at the distal end
   230 of the surgical tool 200. The functional element 250 may include one or more selected
   from the group consisting of: a grasper, a claw, a cutter, a knife, an ablator, a cauterizer, a
   drug delivery apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood
 5 sensor, a camera, a magnet, a heating element and a cryogenic element. For example, in the
   embodiments shown at FIGs. 2 and 3, the functional element 250 includes a grasper having
   first and second grasping members 244a, 244b. The grasper may be constructed and arranged
   to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF. The grasper may be further constructed and
   arranged to apply a grasping force of approximately 1 lbF when the articulation region is
 0 positioned in a fully articulated state. The grasper may be further constructed and arranged to
   apply a substantially similar grasping force throughout all articulation states of the
   articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 so that the operation of the grasper, or other
   type of functional element 250, is substantially maintained throughout the range of
   articulation of the surgical tool 200.
 5          The surgical tool 200 may include a locking device that is constructed and arranged to
   lock an articulated position of the functional element 250. The surgical tool may further
   include a locking device that is constructed and arranged to lock an operational mode of the
   functional element 250. For example, the locking device can be constructed and arranged to
   lock the articulation state of the surgical tool 200, 200a-b and/or grasping state of the
 0 functional element 250 (e.g., opened, closed, partially closed).
            The surgical tool 200 may be constructed and arranged to provide a cavity path for
   entry of a second surgical tool, such as a laser fiber or other elongate tool. For example, the
   functional element of a first surgical tool may include a first tool sheath cavity and the tool
   shaft of the first surgical tool may include a second tool sheath cavity. In this manner, a
25 second surgical tool may be slidably positioned within the cavity path of the first surgical tool.
            For example, referring to FIG. 1A, the first surgical tool 200a may be configured as a
   surgical tool sheath. The surgical tool sheath may have a sheath opening 165a formed at a
   distal end of the surgical tool 200a. A second surgical tool may be slidably positioned within
   a cavity path of the first surgical 200a so that a functional element of the second surgical can
30 extend outward from the sheath opening 165a.
            FIGs. 3A and 3B are perspective views of a distal end of the articulating surgical tool
   illustrated at FIG. 2. The articulation region 235 of the tool shaft may include a single
   segment link 236 or 237 or at least two segment links 236, 237. For example, in the
                                                  -33-

   embodiments shown at FIGs. 2, 3A and 3B, the articulation region 235 includes first through
   sixth segment links 236a-e, 237. The segment links 236, 236a-e, 237 may each be unitary in
   form, or may each be constructed of multiple portions of material that are bonded or coupled
   together.
 5          A first segment link 236, 236e of the at least two segment links may be coupled
   directly or indirectly to the tool shaft 215, 220. For example, the first segment link 236, 236e
   of the at least two segment links 236, 237 may be coupled to the second tool shaft 220 via the
   cable transitioning segment 225, which may distribute multiple cables (e.g., one or more
   actuating cables 420 and/or one or more articulation cables 410) from the tool shaft 215, 220
 0 to the channels of the segment links 236, 237.
            A second segment link 237 of the at least two segment links 236, 237 may be coupled
   to the functional element 250. However, as described above, the articulation region 235 may
   be provided at any position between the functional element 250 and the proximal end 215p of
   the first tool shaft 215. For example, the first segment link 236, 236e of the at least two
 5 segment links 236, 237 may be coupled directly or indirectly to the first tool shaft 215, and a
   second segment link 237 of the at least two segment links may be coupled directly or
   indirectly to the second tool shaft 220.
            The second segment link 237 may be coupled to the functional element 250. For
   example, the second segment link 237 may be coupled to a connection link 241 of the
 0 functional element 250. The connection link 241 may include a material selected from the
   group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl
   chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
            The functional element 250 may include an actuating piston 242 positioned within an
   inner cavity of the connection link 241. The actuation piston 242 may include a material
25 selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel,
   polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
            The functional element 250 may further include first and second actuation link
   members 243a-b coupled to the actuating piston 242. The first and second actuation link
   members may include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a
30 thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer.
            The functional element 250 may further include first and second claw members or
   grasper members 244a-b, which can be respectively coupled to the first and second actuation
   link members 243a-b. The first and second claw members or grasper members 244a-b may
                                                  -34-

   include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic
   polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride and a liquid-crystal polymer, a combination of
   these materials or other suitable material.
            In the embodiment shown in FIG. 3A, linear movement of the actuating piston 242
 5 within the inner cavity of the connection link 241 can cause the first and second claw
   members or grasper members 244a-b to open and close. The opening and closing of the first
   and second claw members or grasper members 244a-b may be in response to a tension
   applied to an actuating cable 420 coupled to the actuating piston 242. The actuating cable
   420 may include one or more selected from the group consisting of: a metal cable, a plastic
 0 cable, a sold wire cable, a braided cable and a stainless steel wire braided cable.
            Although the articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 shown in FIGs. 3A and
   3B illustrate a plurality of segment links 236, 237 having convex body portions 312, 352 (e.g.,
   semi-ellipsoidal body portions, semi-spherical body portions) being oriented in a directing
   facing away from the functional element 250, the surgical tool 200 can be configured to
 5 include an articulation region 235 having a plurality of segment links 236, 237 having convex
   body portions 312, 352 (e.g., semi-ellipsoidal body portions, semi-spherical body portions)
   oriented in a direction facing the functional element 250 as shown in FIG. 6A.
            In some embodiments, alternating convex body portions 312, 352 of the segment links
   236, 237 may be constructed and arranged to have different coefficients of friction when
 0 mated with corresponding concave cavity portions of adjacent segment links 236. For
   example, alternating convex body portions 312, 352 of the segment links 236, 237 may
   include different materials and/or coatings to adjust and/or alter the coefficient of friction
   when mated with corresponding concave cavity portions of adjacent segment links 236.
            FIG. 4A is a top perspective view of segment links of the articulating surgical tool
25 illustrated at FIG. 3, FIG. 4B is a bottom perspective view of segment links of the
   articulating surgical tool illustrated at FIG. 3, and FIG. 4C is a cross-sectional perspective
   view of the segment links illustrated at FIG. 4B.
            The first segment link 236, 236a-e may include a body having a first portion 310 and
   a second portion 312. The first portion 310 may include a cylindrical body portion or a body
30 portion having an elliptical cross-section, and the second portion 312 may include a convex
   body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body portion.
            In a case where the second portion 312 includes a semi-spherical body portion, the
   semi-spherical body portion may include an outer surface having a spherical radius SRI
                                                   - 35 -

   ranging between 1/20 of an inch and 1/4 of an inch. For example, the spherical radius SRI
   may be about 1/20 of an inch.
           Referring to FIG. 3, a semi-spherical body portion of the first segment link 236 may
   mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the cable transitioning segment 225 and/or the
 5 tool shaft 215, 220.
           Referring back to FIGs. 4A-4C, the first segment link 236, 236a-e may include at
   least one articulation cable channel 313, 313a-d. The at least one articulation cable channel
   313, 313a-d may include a first opening in an upper surface 311 of the first portion 310 and a
   second opening in a bottom surface 315 of the first portion 310. For example, in the
 0 embodiments shown at FIGs. 4A-4C, the at least one articulation cable channel 313, 313a-d
   may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 313a-d that are spaced 900 apart
   around the circumference or perimeter of the first portion 310. The at least one articulation
   cable channel 313, 313a-d may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels
   313a-d that are positioned 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to
 5 a center axis of the first portion 310.
           The first segment link 236, 236a-e may include an actuation cable channel 314. The
   actuation cable channel 314 may include a first opening at a diametric midpoint of the semi
   spherical body portion of the first segment 236, 236a-e and a second opening at a diametric
   midpoint of the first portion 310 of the first segment 236, 236a-e.
 0         The actuation cable channel 314 may include an upper taper 319 joined at the first
   opening that conforms the first opening with a cylindrical cavity 318 of the body of the first
   segment 236, 236a-e. The upper taper includes a draft angle ai, which can range between 0'
   and 450. The cylindrical cavity 318 may join a lower taper 317 of the body of the first
   segment 236, 236a-e. The lower taper 317 may conform the cylindrical cavity 318 with a
25 concave cavity or a semi-spherical cavity 316 of the body of the first segment 236, 236a-e.
   The lower taper includes a draft angle    U2, which can range between 0' and 450. The actuation
   cable channel 314 may include an upper taper 319 and/or a lower taper 317 to prevent
   pinching of an actuation cable 420 positioned within the actuation cable channel 314 during
   articulation states of the articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200.
30         The semi-spherical cavity 316 of the body of the first segment 236, 236a-e may
   include an inner surface having a spherical radius SR3 ranging between 1/20 of an inch and
   1/4 of an inch. For example, the spherical radius SR3 may be about 1/20 of an inch. The
   spherical radius SR3 may be substantially similar to or greater than a spherical radius SRI,
                                                  -36-

   SR2 of the first and second segment links 236, 237 so that a semi-spherical body portion of
   one of the first and second segment links 236, 237 can mate with a semi-spherical cavity
   portion of another first segment link.
            The second segment link 237 may include a body having a first portion 350 and a
 5 second portion 352. The first portion 350 may include a cylindrical body portion or a body
   portion having an elliptical cross-section, and the second portion 352 may include a convex
   body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body portion.
            In the case where the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion, the semi
   spherical body portion may include an outer surface having a spherical radius SR2 ranging
 0 between 1/20 of an inch and 1/4 of an inch. For example, the spherical radius SR2 may be
   about 1/20 of an inch.
            Referring to FIG. 3A, the semi-spherical body portion of the second segment link 237
   may mate with a semi-spherical cavity portion 316 of the first segment link 236.
            Referring back to FIGs. 4A-4C, the second segment link 237 may include at least one
 5 articulation cable channel 353, 353a-d. The at least one articulation cable channel 353, 353a
   d may include a first opening in an upper surface 351 of the first portion 350 and a second
   opening in a bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350. For example, in the embodiments
   shown at FIGs. 4A-4C, the at least one articulation cable channel 353, 353a-d may comprise
   first through fourth articulation cable channels 353a-d that are spaced 900 apart around the
 0 circumference or perimeter of the first portion 350. The at least one articulation cable
   channel 353, 353a-d may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 353a
   d that positioned 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center
   axis of the first portion 350.
            Referring to FIG. 3A, at least two articulation cable channels 313, 313a-d of the first
25 segment link 236, 236a-e may be aligned with at least two articulation cable channels 353,
   353a-d of the second segment link 237 so as to provide a cable channel for the insertion of
   one or more articulation cables 410.
            Referring back to FIGs. 4A-4C, the second segment 237 may include an actuation
   cable channel 354. The actuation cable channel 354 may include a first opening at a
30 diametric midpoint of the semi-spherical body portion of the second segment 237 and a
   second opening at a diametric midpoint of the first portion 350 of the second segment 237.
            The actuation cable channel 354 may include an upper taper 359 joined at the first
   opening that conforms the first opening with a first cylindrical cavity 358 of the body of the
                                                  - 37 -

   second segment 237. The upper taper 359 includes a draft angle        U3, which can range between
   0' and 450. The first cylindrical cavity 358 may join a second cylindrical cavity 356 of the
   body of the second segment 237. The first cylindrical cavity 358 may include a bevel 358a at
   an interface of the first cylindrical cavity 358 and an upper surface 357 of the second
 5 cylindrical cavity 356. A diameter of the first cylindrical cavity 358 may be less than a
   diameter of the second cylindrical cavity 356.
            The second segment 237' may further include at least one cavity slot 360, 360a-b
   formed in the bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350 of the second segment 237'. The at
   least one cavity slot 360, 360a-b may include a single continuous cavity slot 360 or may
 0 include a first cavity slot 360a and a second cavity slot 360b. The first cavity slot 360a may
   extend from a first articulation cable channel 353a of the at least one articulation cable
   channel to a second articulation cable channel 353b of the at least one articulation cable
   channel.
            A first articulation cable 410 may be positioned within the first articulation cable
 5 channel 353a, the first cavity slot 360a and the second articulation cable channel 353b. The
   first articulation cable 410 may be secured to a surface of the first cavity slot 360a. For
   example, the first articulation cable may be welded to the surface of the first cavity slot 360a,
   glued to the surface of the first cavity slot 360a and/or press fit within the first cavity slot
   360a.
 0          The second cavity slot 360b may extend from a third articulation cable channel 353c
   of the at least one articulation cable channel to a fourth articulation cable channel 353d of the
   at least one articulation cable channel. A second articulation cable 410 may be positioned
   within the third articulation cable channel 353c, the second cavity slot 360b and the fourth
   articulation cable channel 353d.
25          The at least one cavity slot 360 may extend about an entire perimeter or
   circumference of the bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350 or cylindrical body portion
   of the second segment 237. In this manner, the second opening of the at least one articulation
   cable channel 353, 353a-d may be partially defined by the at least one cavity slot 360. At
   least one articulation cable 410 may be positioned within the at least one articulation cable
30 channel 353, 353a-d, and may be secured to a surface of the at least one cavity slot 360.
            The segment links 236, 237 may include a material selected from the group consisting
   of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal
                                                   -38-

   polymer and polytetrafluoroethylene. The segment links 236, 237 may be rigid. The second
   segment link 237 may include a material different from that of the first segment link 236.
            In some embodiments, a height of the second portions 312, 352 of the segment links
   236, 236a-e, 237 may be different such that an angle of articulation between one or more
 5 segment links can be restricted to different angles of articulation. For example, a first
   segment link 236, 237 or a first group of segment links may be restricted to approximately
   12' to 15' per segment, and a second segment link 236, 237 or a second group of segment
   links may be restricted to approximately 8' to 110 per segment.
            FIGs. 5A and 5B are perspective views illustrating articulation ranges of the
 0 articulating surgical tool illustrated at FIG. 2. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool
   200 is illustrated in varying articulation states 901a-i.
            As described above, the articulation region 235 of the tool shaft may include one or
   more segment links 236, 237. In embodiments including two or more segments links 236,
   237, each segment link 236, 237 may be sequentially coupled. In this manner, a plurality of
 5 segment links 236, 237 may articulate with respect to one another.
            The segment links 236, 237 of the articulation region may be constructed and
   arranged to restrict an angle of articulation. For example, a bottom surface of a first portion
   of a first segment link may abut an upper surface of a first portion of a second segment link to
   restrict an angle of articulation with respect to a center axis of each of the first and second
 0 segment links.
            In some embodiments, the angle of articulation can be restricted to approximately 120
   to 150 per segment 236, 237. For example, referring to the articulation state 901f, a surgical
   tool 200 including a single segment link 237 may be restricted to a maximum angle of
   articulation a4 that ranges between approximately 120 to 15'. Referring to the articulation
25 state 901e a surgical tool 200 including two segment links 236a, 237 may be restricted to a
   maximum angle of articulation a5 that ranges between approximately 240 to 300.          Referring
   to the articulation state 901d, a surgical tool 200 including three segment links 236a-b, 237
   may be restricted to a maximum angle of articulation a6 that ranges between 360 to 450.
   Referring to the articulation state 901c, a surgical tool 200 including four segment links 236a
30 c, 237 may be restricted to a maximum angle of articulation a7 that ranges between
   approximately 480 to 600. Referring to the articulation state 901b, a surgical tool 200
   including five segment links 236a-d, 237 may be restricted to a maximum angle of
   articulation as that ranges between approximately 600 to 750. Referring to the articulation
                                                   - 39 -

   state 901a, a surgical tool 200 including six segment links 236a-e, 237 may be restricted to a
   maximum angle of articulation a9 that ranges between approximately 72' to 90'. Referring to
   the articulation state 901g, a surgical tool 200 including seven segment links may be
   restricted to a maximum angle of articulation aio that ranges between approximately 84' to
 5 105'. Referring to the articulation state 901h, a surgical tool 200 including nine segment
   links may be restricted to a maximum angle of articulation ai that ranges between
   approximately 108' to 135'. Referring to the articulation state 901i, a surgical tool 200
   including twelve segment links may be restricted to a maximum angle of articulation aU12 that
   ranges between approximately 144' to 180'. Accordingly, an articulation state of the surgical
 0 tool 200 including n segment links may be restricted to a maximum angle of articulation a
   that ranges between approximately (12*n) 0 to (15*n) 0 .
            Referring to FIGs. 6A, 6B, 7, 8A-8E and 9, the alternative segment link
   configurations illustrated therein may be readily incorporated into the articulating surgical
   tool 200 shown in FIGs. 2 and 3. For example, any one of the articulation regions 235
 5 illustrated in FIGs. 6A, 6B, 7, 8A-8E and 9 may replace the articulation region 235 shown in
   FIGs. 2 and 3.
            FIG. 6A is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
   configuration of an articulating surgical tool. As described above, the surgical tool 200 can
   be configured to include an articulation region 235 having a plurality of segment links 236,
 0 237 having convex body portions 312, 352 (e.g., semi-ellipsoidal body portions, semi
   spherical body portions) oriented in a direction facing the functional element 250 as shown in
   FIG. 6A. The segment links 236, 237 shown in FIG. 6A may be substantially similar to the
   segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 3 and 4A-4C and are indicated as having like
   reference characters.
25          FIG. 6B is a side perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link
   configuration of an articulating surgical tool, and FIG. 6C is a sectional view of the third
   segment links illustrated in FIG. 6B. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 may
   include a first segment link 237, one or more second segment links 610a-b, and one or more
   third segment links 611 a-b. For example, in the embodiment shown in FIG. 6B, the
30 articulation region 235 includes a first segment link 237, two (2) second segment links 610a
   b and two (2) third segment links 611a-b.
            The first segment link 237 may be similar to the distal segment link 237 shown in
   FIGs. 4A-4C, and may be coupled to the functional element 250. However, as described
                                                  - 40-

   above, the articulation region 235 may be provided at any position between the functional
   element 250 and the proximal end 215p of the tool shaft 215 (see for example FIG. 2).
            At least one second segment link 611 a-b may be coupled directly or indirectly to the
   tool shaft 215, 220. For example, the second segment 61 lb may be coupled to the second
 5 tool shaft 220 via the cable transitioning segment 225, which may distribute multiple cables
   (e.g., one or more actuating cables 420 and/or one or more articulation cables 410) from the
   tool shaft 215, 220 to channels 612a-b, 616a-b of the segment links 610a-b, 611a-b, 237.
            At least one third segment link 611 a-b may be coupled between the first segment link
   237 and one of the second segment links 610a-b. For example, in the embodiment shown in
 0 FIG. 6B, the third segment link 611 a is coupled between the first segment 237 and the second
   segment link 610a, and the third segment link 61 lb is coupled between the second segment
   link 610a and the second segment link 610b.
            The second segment link 610a-b may include a body 620 having first and second
   concave cavities 62la-b formed at opposite end surfaces of the body 620. The first and
 5 second concave cavities 621a-b may include semi-ellipsoidal cavities or semi-spherical
   cavities. In an embodiment having semi-spherical cavities, the semi-spherical cavities may
   have spherical radii that match spherical radii of semi-spherical body portions of the third
   segment links 611 a-b.
            The first concave cavity 621a may join a first taper 613 of the body 620 of the second
 0 segment link 610a-b, and the first taper 613 may conform the first concave cavity 621a to a
   first opening of a cylindrical cavity 614. The second concave cavity 621b may join a second
   taper 615 of the body 620 of the second segment link 610a-b, and the second taper 615 may
   conform the second concave cavity 621b to a second opening of the cylindrical cavity 614.
   In this manner, an actuation cable channel may be formed within the body 620 of the second
25 segment link 610a-b, extending from the first concave cavity 621a to the second concave
   cavity 621b. In addition, the first and second tapers 613, 615 may prevent pinching of an
   actuation cable 420 positioned within the actuation cable channel of the second segment link
   610a-b during articulation states of the articulation region 235.
            The third segment link 611 a-b may include a body having a first convex body portion
30 623a, a second body portion 622, and a third convex body portion 623b. The first and third
   body portions 623a-b may include semi-ellipsoidal body portions or semi-spherical body
   portions, and the second body portion 622 may include a cylindrical body portion.
                                                  - 41 -

            The third segment link 611 a-b may include a first taper 617 joined at a first opening in
   the first convex body portion 623a. The first taper 617 may conform the first opening in the
   first convex body portion 623a to a cylindrical cavity 618 of the third segment 61 la-b. The
   third segment link 611 a-b may include a second taper 619 joined at a second opening in the
 5 second convex body portion 623b. The second taper 619 may conform the second opening in
   the second convex body portion 623b to the cylindrical cavity 618 of the third segment 61 la
   b. In this manner, an actuation cable channel may be formed within the body of the third
   segment link 61 la-b, extending from the first opening in the first convex body portion 623a
   to the second opening in the second convex body portion 623b. In addition, the first and
 0 second tapers 617, 619 may prevent pinching of an actuation cable 420 positioned within the
   actuation cable channel of the third segment link 611 a-b during articulation states of the
   articulation region 235.
            As described above with reference to the segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 4A
   4C, the second and third segment links 610a-b, 611 a-b may likewise include at least one
 5 articulation cable channel 612a-b, 616a-b. The at least one articulation cable channel 612a-b,
   616a-b may include a first opening in a first surface 624, 626 of the bodies of the second and
   third segment links 610a-b, 611 a-b, and a second opening in a second surface 625, 627 of the
   bodies of the second and third segment links 610a-b, 61la-b. For example, in the
   embodiments shown at FIG. 6B, the at least one articulation cable channel of the second and
 0 third segment links 610a-b, 611 a-b may comprise first through fourth articulation cable
   channels that are spaced 900 apart around the circumference or perimeter of the bodies of the
   second and third segment links 610a-b, 61la-b. The at least one articulation cable channel
   may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that are positioned 90'
   apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the second and
25 third segment links 610a-b, 611a-b.
            FIG. 7 is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
   an articulating surgical tool. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool 200 may include
   a first segment link 701 and one or more second segment links 702a-b. For example, in the
   embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the articulation region 235 includes a first segment link 701
30 and two (2) second segment links 702a-b.
            The first segment link 701 may include a body 704 and a protrusion 703. The body
   704 may include a body having an elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body, and the
   protrusion 703 may include an elliptical protrusion or a cylindrical protrusion. For example,
                                                  - 42-

   in the embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the first segment link 701 is shown having a cylindrical
   body and a cylindrical protrusion. A diameter of the body 704 may be greater than a
   diameter of the protrusion 703.
            The first segment link 701 may include at least one cavity slot 711 a-b formed in a
 5 bottom surface 710 of the body 704. The at least one cavity slot 711a-b may be similar to the
   at least one cavity slot 360, 360a-b formed in the bottom surface 355 of the first portion 350
   of the second segment 237 shown in FIG. 4B. The at least one cavity slot may include a
   single continuous cavity slot (not shown), such as the single continuous cavity slot 360
   shown in FIG. 4B or may include a first cavity slot 71 la and a second cavity slot 71 lb as
 0 shown in FIG. 7.
            The second segment link 702a-b may include a body 706 and a protrusion 705. The
   body 706 may include a body having an elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body, and the
   protrusion 705 may include an elliptical protrusion or a cylindrical protrusion. For example,
   in the embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the second segment link 702a-b is shown having a
 5 cylindrical body and a cylindrical protrusion. A diameter of the body 706 may be greater
   than a diameter of the protrusion 705.
            The second segment link 702a-b may include at least one concave cavity 707. The
   concave cavity may include a semi-ellipsoidal cavity or a semi-spherical cavity. In this
   manner, a protrusion 703, 705 of the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b may mate
 0 with a concave cavity 707 of another second segment link 702a-b. For example, in the
   embodiment shown in FIG. 7, the protrusion 703 of the first segment link 701 is shown mated
   with the concave cavity 707 of the second segment link 702a, and the protrusion 705 of the
   second segment link 702a is shown mated with the concave cavity 707 of the second segment
   link 702b. In this example, the cable transitioning segment 235 includes a concave cavity
25 712, which is shown mated with a protrusion 705 of the second segment link 702b.
            As described above with reference to the segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 4A
   4C, the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b may likewise include at least one
   articulation cable channel 708a-d, 709a-d. The at least one articulation cable channel 708a-d,
   709a-d may include a first opening in a first surface of the bodies 704, 706 of the first and
30 second segment links 701, 702a-b, and a second opening in a bottom surface of the bodies
   704, 706 of the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b. For example, in the embodiments
   shown at FIG. 7, the at least one articulation cable channel of the first and second segment
   links 701, 702a-b may comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 708a-d, 709a
                                                 - 43 -

   d that are spaced 900 apart around the circumference or perimeter of the bodies 704, 706 of
   the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b. The at least one articulation cable channel
   may also comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels 708a-d, 709a-d that are
   positioned 90' apart from one another along a common radial path relative to a center axis of
 5 the first and second segment links 701, 702a-b.
            The first and second segment links 701, 702a-b may include actuation cable channels
   713, 714. The actuation cable channels 713, 714 may include a first opening at a diametric
   midpoint of the protrusions 703, 705 and a second opening at a diametric midpoint of the
   bottom surfaces of the bodies 704, 706. Although not shown, the first and second openings
 0 may join first and second tapers that conform the first and second openings to a cylindrical
   cavity so as to form a channel. As described above, the tapers may prevent pinching of an
   actuation cable 420 positioned within the actuation cable channels 713, 714 of the segment
   links 701, 702a-b during articulation states of the articulation region 235.
            FIG. 8A is a perspective view illustrating an alternative segment link configuration of
 5 an articulating surgical tool. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool may include a
   first segment link 801, one or more second segment links 802, and a third segment link 803.
            The first segment link 801 may include a body having a first body portion 801a and a
   second body portion 801b. The first body portion 801a may include a body portion having an
   elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body portion, and the second body portion 801b may
 0 include a convex body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body
   portion. The first segment link may be similar to the distal segment link 237 shown in FIGs.
   4A-4C.
            The second segment links 802 may include a first body portion 802a, a second body
   portion 802b, and a plurality of protruding posts 802c extending from a surface of the first
25 body portion 802a. The first body portion 802a may include a body portion having an
   elliptical cross-section or a cylindrical body portion, and the second body portion 802b may
   include a convex body portion, a semi-ellipsoidal body portion or a semi-spherical body
   portion. The posts 802c may include cylindrically shaped posts, and may have rounded or
   beveled top surfaces.
30          The third segment link 803 may include a first body portion 803a and a plurality of
   protruding posts 802c extending from a surface of the third body portion 803a. The posts
   803b may include cylindrically shaped posts, and may have rounded or beveled top surfaces.
                                                  - 44-

            The second body portion 801b of the first segment 801 may mate with the plurality of
   posts 802c of the second segment 802, and the second body portion 802b of the second
   segment link 802 may mate with the plurality of posts 803b of the third segment 803. In this
   manner, friction may be reduced at the interface between the second body portion 801b of the
 5 first segment link 801 and the posts 802c of the second segment link 802, and the interface
   between the second body portion 802b of the second segment link 802 and the posts 803b of
   the third segment link 803.
            As described above with reference to the segment links 236, 237 shown in FIGs. 4A
   4C, the second and third segment links 802, 803 may likewise include at least one articulation
 0 cable channel 804a-b, 805a-b. For example, in the embodiments shown at FIG. 8A, the at
   least one articulation cable channel of the second and third segment links 802, 803 may
   comprise first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced 900 apart around the
   circumference or perimeter of the bodies 802a, 803a of the second and third segment links
   802, 803. The at least one articulation cable channel may also comprise first through fourth
 5 articulation cable channels that are positioned 90' apart from one another along a common
   radial path relative to a center axis of the second and third segment links 802, 803.
            The second and third segment links 802, 803 may include actuation cable channels
   804c, 805c. The actuation cable channels 804c, 805c may be positioned at a diametric
   midpoint of the second and third segment links 802, 803.
 0          FIGs. 8B-8E illustrate alternative post configurations in accordance with the
   alternative segment link configuration shown in FIG. 8A.
            FIG. 8B is a perspective view of a segment link, and FIG. 8C is a top view of the
   segment link illustrated in FIG. 8B. As described above, the second and third segment links
   802, 803 may include a plurality of posts 802c, 803b. The plurality of posts 802c, 803b may
25 be arranged along a common radial path relative to a center axis of the second and third
   segment links 802, 803, and may be spaced apart by a common distance. For example, in the
   embodiment shown in FIGs. 8B and 8C, the plurality of posts 802c, 803b include first
   through forth posts. The plurality of posts 802c, 803b may have a common height.
            FIG. 8D is a perspective view of a segment link, and FIG. 8E is a top view of the
30 segment link illustrated in FIG. 8D. As described above, the second and third segment links
   802, 803 may include a plurality of posts 802c, 803b. The plurality of posts 802c, 803b may
   be arranged along a common radial path relative to a center post 802x, 803x of the second
   and third segment links 802, 803, and may be spaced apart by a common distance. For
                                                   - 45 -

   example, in the embodiment shown in FIGs. 8D and 8E, the plurality of posts 802c, 803b
   include first through fourth posts. The first through fourth posts are arranged along a
   common radial path relative to the center post 802x, 803x. In this exemplary configuration,
   the plurality of posts 802c, 803b arranged about the center posts 802x, 803x and may each
 5 have a first height greater than a second height of the center post 802x, 803x.
           FIG. 9 is a perspective view illustrating alternative segment links of an articulating
   surgical tool. The articulation region 235 of the surgical tool may include a first segment link
   901 and one or more second segment links 902a-b.
           The first segment link 901 may be similar to the distal segment link 237 shown in
 0 FIGs. 4A-4C, and the second segment links 902a-b may be similar to the first segment link
   236 shown in FIGs. 4A-4C. However, instead of including a concave cavity 316 as shown in
   FIGs. 4A-4C, the second segment links 902a-b may include an elliptical or circular opening
   906 formed in the bottom surface 905 of the second segment links 902a-b. The opening 906
   may have a diameter less than twice the spherical radius of the convex body portions of the
 5 first and second segments 901, 902a-b so that when mated, the convex body portions of the
   first and second segment 901, 902a-b partially protrude within the opening 906.
           As described herein, tension or slack applied to the articulation cables can permit an
   operator to change the articulation state of the surgical tool. For example, an operator can
   apply a force to the articulation cables to bend the surgical tool to a desired angle of
 0 articulation. The operator can maintain the angle of articulation until a different force is
   applied to the articulation cables. Continuing with this example, the operator can apply
   tension or slack to the actuation cable, for example, to open and close a grasper, while the
   tool shaft is maintained at the angle of articulation. The operator can alternatively open and
   close the grasper while also bending the surgical tool. However, if too much tension is
25 applied to the actuation cable, the excess force applied to the actuation cable can
   inadvertently cause the articulation cables to bind and/or cause the segment links of the
   articulation region to enter a lock state, for example, by binding together. Thus, it is desirable
   that the forces imparted on an actuation cable and the forces imparted on the articulation
   cables be applied independently of one another. For example, when tension or slack is
30 applied to the actuation cable in order to operate a grasper or other functional element, it is
   desirable that a force generated by the movement of the actuation cable does not affect
   articulation cables, or the segment links of the articulation region.
                                                   - 46-

             FIG. 10 is a cross-sectional side view of an articulating surgical tool 1200, in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts. The surgical tool
   1200 of FIG. 10 can prevent inadvertent binding or locking from occurring during operation.
   The surgical tool 1200 can be implemented in a system for performing a medical procedure,
 5 for example, the system 100 described above. Accordingly, the surgical tool 1200 can be part
   of an articulating probe, for example, the articulating probe 120 described herein, which can
   guide the surgical tool 1200 and/or other surgical tools 200, 200a-d described in
   abovementioned embodiments within a patient body.
            The surgical tool 1200 can be constructed and arranged to be controlled via a human
 0 interface device, for example, a haptic controller, a joystick, a track ball, a mouse, or an
   electromechanical or processor-based device.
            The surgical tool 1200 can include a tool handle 1205, a first assembly 1221, and a
   second assembly 1222. The first assembly 1221 and the second assembly 1222 can be co
   located at an articulating probe, for example, co-located in a lumen of an articulating probe.
 5          In an embodiment, the tool handle 1205 is coupled to a proximal end of a support
   element, for example support element 1231 described below, at a proximal end of the first
   assembly 1221. The tool handle 1205 can include one selected from the group consisting of:
   scissor handles, a palm-held grip, a thumb/index/middle finger grip and a pistol grip. The
   tool handle 1205 can include a trigger 1208 that applies a force for the movement of elements
 0 of the second assembly 1222, such as an activation element 1420.
            In an embodiment, the surgical tool 1200 includes a ball and socket mechanism 1212
   that is constructed and arranged to manipulate or otherwise control functions and movement
   of elements of the surgical tool 1200. Although not shown in FIG. 10, one or more steering
   cables, also referred to as articulation cables, may be secured to the ball and socket
25 mechanism 1212, shown as articulation cables 1410 at FIG. 13. One or more activation
   elements 1420 may be secured to the tool handle 1205, shown in greater detail at FIG. 13. A
   movement of the ball and socket mechanism 1212 can provide tension or slack on one or
   more of the steering cables 1410 secured to the ball and socket mechanism 1212, thereby
   adjusting an articulation state of an articulation region 1235 of the first assembly 1221. The
30 articulation region 1235 can be at a distal end of the first assembly 1221 proximal to the
   second assembly 1222. The articulation region 1235 can alternatively be located anywhere
   along the first assembly 1221 between the distal end of the first assembly 1221 and a
   proximal end of the first assembly 1221. Forces related to tension, slack, and the like can be
                                                   - 47 -

   applied by the activation element 1420 in response to a movement of the handle 1205, for
   example, squeezing the trigger 1208.
           The first assembly 1221 of the surgical tool 1200 can include a first tool shaft 1215
   and a second tool shaft 1220. A proximal end of the first tool shaft 1215 can be coupled to
 5 the tool handle 1205, for example, via the ball and socket mechanism 1212. In an
   embodiment, a distal end of the first tool shaft 1215 is coupled to a proximal end of the
   second tool shaft 1220. A distal end of the second tool shaft 1220 may be directly coupled to
   the articulation region 1235 or can be otherwise in communication with the articulation
   region 1235 via intervening components between the second tool shaft 1220 and the
 0 articulation region 1235, for example, a cable transitioning segment the same as or similar to
   the segment 225 described above.
           Although the articulation region 1235 is shown at a distal end of the surgical tool
   1200, the articulation region 1235 may be provided at any position between a functional
   mechanism 1250, also referred to as a functional element, and the proximal end of the first
 5 tool shaft 1215. Details of the articulation region 1235 are described herein with reference to
   FIG. 11.
           The first tool shaft 1215 can include a rigid tool shaft and the second tool shaft 1220
   can include a flexible tool shaft. Alternatively, the tool shafts 1215, 1220 of the surgical tool
   1200 can each include rigid and/or flexible tool shafts.
 0         At least one of the tool shafts 1215, 1220 may include a lumen guiding member (not
   shown) having at least one cable channel, for example, a first cable channel for receiving the
   activation element 1420 and at least one second cable channel for receiving steering cables
   1410. The first cable channel is preferably larger in diameter than the articulation cable
   channel 226 described with reference to FIG. 2-9 to accommodate elements of the second
25 assembly 1222 such as a support element 1231, described below. In the other embodiments,
   only the activation element 1420 extends through the articulation segments. Here, the second
   cable channel for the steering cables 1410 has smaller dimensions such as width or diameter
   than the first cable channel. The first cable channel can be positioned at a diametric
   midpoint of the tool shaft, and the at least one second cable channel can be positioned along a
30 circumference or perimeter of the tool shaft. For example, the lumen guiding member may
   include a multi-lumen stiffening rod, for example, a five lumen stiffening rod having a first
   cable channel and four second cable channels. The lumen guiding member may include a
   material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer,
                                                  - 48 -

   stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride, a liquid-crystal polymer, polytetrafluoroethylene, and a
   combination of these materials or other suitable material.
            The surgical tool 1200 can include a locking device (not shown) that is constructed
   and arranged to lock an articulated position of the functional mechanism 1250. The surgical
 5 tool may further include a locking device that is constructed and arranged to lock an
   operational mode of the functional mechanism 1250. For example, the locking device can be
   constructed and arranged to lock the articulation region 1235 in place to maintain a particular
   state, for example, an angle, of the surgical tool 1200 and/or maintain a grasping state of the
   functional mechanism 1250 (e.g., opened, closed, partially closed).
 0          FIG. 11 is a detailed view of the articulating surgical tool 1200 illustrated in FIG. 10,
   in accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts.
            The second assembly 1222 comprises an elongated support element 1231, an
   elongated activation element 1420, and a functional mechanism 1250. The second assembly
   1222 is in communication with the first assembly 1221 so that the support element 1231 can
 5 be movable relative to the first assembly 1221. In an embodiment, the support element 1231
   in a first state extends along an axis, and is constructed and arranged for flexibility in a radial
   direction relative to the axis, while maintaining column strength when a force is applied to
   the support element 1231 in an axial direction. In a second state, the support element 1231
   can flex or bend relative to the axis. The support element 1231 can include elastic bending
 0 and/or plastic deformation characteristics for transitioning between the first and second states.
            The support element 1231 can be constructed and arranged as a coil, rod, hollow tube,
   a linear arrangement of multiple links, or related structure. The support element 1231 can
   have a cross-section of any well-known suitable shape, including but not limited to a circle,
   oval, polygon, square, triangle, or a rectangle. The support element 1231 includes a lumen
25 that extends along a direction of extension of the support element 1231. The activation
   element 1420 is positioned in the lumen, and can move relative to the support element 1231,
   for example, along the direction of extension of the support element 1231. In one
   embodiment, the activation element 1420 moves freely within the support element 1231. In
   another embodiment, an activation element 1520 moves freely proximal to an outer surface of
30 the support element 1531, as shown at FIGs. 15A-15C.
            The support element 1231 has limited compression in the direction of its extension,
   but is flexible in a lateral direction, or transverse direction, relative to the direction of
   extension. For example, during operation, the support element 1231 can bend in a same or
                                                    - 49-

   similar direction as the first assembly 1221. Here, the activation element 1420 can move
   along the direction of the bend in the support element 1231 independently of any movement
   in the first assembly 1221.    Thus, when a force is applied by the activation element 1420 to
   the functional mechanism 1250, for example, pulling the activation element in a direction
 5 away from the functional mechanism 1250 during operation of the functional mechanism
   1250, the support element 1231 maintains a rigid position during movement of the activation
   element 1420 in the lumen of the support element 1231. In other words, the support element
   1231 can absorb a load caused by the force imparted by the movement of the activation
   element 1420. More specifically, the support element 1231 provides rigidity in a longitudinal
 0 direction, while also providing some flexibility in a lateral direction when a force is a applied
   which prevents binding, but still allows the tool to bend with a probe or the like. The support
   element 1231 can therefore prevent or otherwise reduce an amount of a force from being
   transferred to the first assembly 1221 when the force is imparted by the movement of the
   activation element 1420. As such, the force imparted by the movement of the activation
 5 element 1420 can be isolated from the first assembly. In cases where such isolation of the
   forces is not absolute, perfect, or complete, a marginal amount of force transfer to elements of
   the first assembly 1221 can occur. However, any transfer of force is reduced to nevertheless
   preventing or largely mitigate any undesirable effects on the first assembly 1221, for example,
   binding of steering cables or inadvertent locking of links at the articulation region 1235.
 0          The activation element 1420 can be constructed and arranged as a wire, cable, fiber,
   string, and the like for operating the functional mechanism 1250. The activation element
   1420 can be formed of polytetrafluoroethylene, also referred to as Teflon@, graphite, metal,
   plastic, or other material permitting operation of the functional mechanism 1250. In some
   embodiments, activation element 1420 may comprise a wire or optical fiber configured to
25 deliver energy or data. The energy can be mechanical energy, electrical energy, radiation
   energy, or other form of energy known to those of ordinary skill in the art. In some
   embodiments, activation element 1420 may comprise at least a portion of its outer surface
   that is lubricious, such as a surface portion comprising a material selected from the group
   consisting of: Teflon; graphite; a hydrophilic coating; a surface area reducing texture; and
30 combinations of these.
            The functional mechanism 1250 can be directly or indirectly coupled to the activation
   element 1420, for example, via a linkage mechanism at the functional mechanism 1250. In
   this manner, a movement of the functional mechanism 1250 can occur in response to a
                                                  -50-

   movement of the activation element 1420. The structure, location, and function of the
   functional mechanism 1250 can be similar to the functional element 250 described above.
   Details of the functional mechanism 1250 are therefore not repeated for brevity. The
   functional mechanism 1250 can be a grasper; a scissor; a reciprocating cutter; a claw, a cutter,
 5 a knife, or other tool well-known to those of ordinary skill in the art used for performing
   medical procedures. The functional mechanism 1250 can be constructed and arranged to
   articulate with respect to a direction of extension of the first assembly 1221.
            The functional mechanism 1250 can include an actuation piston (not shown) coupled
   to the activation element 1420 to link the activation element 1420 to the functional
 0 mechanism 1250. The structure, location, and function of the actuation piston can be similar
   to the actuation piston 242 described herein. Details of the actuation piston are therefore not
   repeated for brevity.
            The second assembly 1222 can also comprise a mount such as a clevis 1223 that is
   coupled to the support element 1231.      The clevis 1223 can be coupled to a distal end 1232 of
 5 the support element 1231. An inner surface of the clevis 1223 can be coupled to an outer
   surface of the support element 1231 at the distal end 1232 of the support element 1231. In an
   embodiment, the clevis 1223 is bonded to the support element 1231, for example, using an
   adhesive. In another embodiment, the clevis 1223 is welded to the support element 1231. In
   other embodiments, the clevis 1223 and the support element 1231 are in communication by
 0 swaging, threading, pinning, snap-fitting, press-fitting, or coupling together in a well-known
   manner to those of ordinary skill in the art.
            The clevis 1223 can include a base 1213 and a protrusion 1214 extending from the
   base 1213. In an embodiment, the base 1213 is wider than the protrusion 1214. The
   protrusion 1214 of the clevis 1223 can extend into an opening, or recess, at a connection link
25 1241 at a distal end of the first assembly 1221. In an embodiment, an outer width of the base
   1213 is equal to an outer width of the distal end 1217 of the first assembly 1221. The
   protrusion 1214 can have a cylindrical outer surface. The opening at the connection link
   1241 for receiving the clevis 1223 can have a cylindrical inner surface.
            The clevis 1223 includes an opening 1228 for receiving the functional mechanism
30 1250. The activation element 1420 can be coupled to the functional mechanism 1250 and
   translation of the activation element 1420 operates the functional mechanism 1250. For
   example, translation of the activation element 1420 controls the movement of the functional
   mechanism 1250. The opening 1228 can be constructed and arranged to permit the
                                                  -51-

   functional mechanism 1250 to expand and contract relative to the opening 1228 during the
   movement of the functional mechanism 1250, for example, opening and closing a grasper as
   shown in FIGs. 14A and 14B.
            The activation element 1420 moves freely along a direction of extension of the
 5 support element 1231 and the clevis 1223. The activation element 1420 can include one or
   more actuation cables, for example, similar to the actuation cables 420 described herein.
            The surgical tool 1200 also includes a first longitudinal clearance 1238 and/or a
   second longitudinal clearance 1239 between the clevis 1223 and the distal link 1241 of the
   first assembly 1221. The first longitudinal clearance 1238 and/or a second longitudinal
 0 clearance 1239, also referred to as gaps, are positioned between the proximal surfaces of
   clevis 1223 and the opposing distal surfaces of the connection link 1241. In some
   embodiments, the first longitudinal clearance 1238 and/or a second longitudinal clearance
   1239 can be at least partially filled or completely filled with a compressible material, such as
   elastomer, polymer, rubber, foam, sponge material, or combinations of these. In other
 5 embodiments, a compressible element, such as compressible element 1464 of FIGs. 14A and
   14B, can be positioned at the first longitudinal clearance 1238 and/or a second longitudinal
   clearance 1239, such as a spring, a compressible disk such as an elastomeric disk, a hydraulic
   piston, a pneumatic piston, or combinations thereof. The introduction of a material or device
   1464 at the gaps 1238, 1239 can provide for additional stability, and can absorb shock or
 0 force-related event that may occur during operation.
            The longitudinal clearances 1238, 1239 are dimensioned in a longitudinal direction to
   prevent or minimize contact between the clevis 1223 and a distal link 1241 of the first
   assembly 1221 when a force is imparted by the movement of the activation element 1420.
   The dimension of the longitudinal clearances 1238, 1239 can include a length, width, area, or
25 other well-known dimension. The dimension of the longitudinal clearances 1238, 1239 also
   provide for play, or "wiggle room", between the clevis 1223 and the distal link 1241 of the
   first assembly 1221 when a force is imparted by a movement of the activation element 1420,
   for example, in a longitudinal direction relative to the direction of extension of the first
   assembly 1221. Therefore, the dimension of at least one of the first longitudinal clearances
30 1238 and the second longitudinal clearance 1239, for example, a gap width, can be reduced
   when a force is imparted, preventing the imparted force from imparting another force on the
   first assembly 1221, in particular, the steering cables 1410 and/or links 1236 at the
   articulation region 1235. Accordingly, the first longitudinal clearance 1239 and/or the second
                                                  -52-

   longitudinal clearance 1238 can ensure the isolation of the imparted force from the first
   assembly 1221, and prevent binding or locking of the first assembly 1221.
           The first longitudinal clearance 1238 can be between the base 1213 of the clevis 1223
   and the distal end 1217 of the first assembly 1221. The second longitudinal clearance 1239
 5 can be between an outermost end of the protrusion 1214 of the clevis 1223 and an inner end
   wall 1216 of the recess at the distal link 1241 of the first assembly 1221.
           In an embodiment, the articulation region 1235 of the first assembly 1221 includes a
   plurality of articulation segments 1236, or links. The articulation segments 1236 can be the
   same as or similar to the segment links 236 described above with respect to FIGs. 2-9.
 0 Details of the articulation segments 1236 are therefore not repeated for brevity.
            At least two steering cables 1410 can extend through the tool shaft 1220 to the
   articulation region 1235 for controlling an articulation of the articulation segments 1236.
   Each of the steering cables 1410 has a proximal end that can terminate at the surgical tool
   handle 1205. Movement of the articulation segments 1236 relative to each other can be
 5 controlled by the handle 1205.
           FIG. 12 is an oblique view of the articulating surgical tool 1200 of FIGs 10 and 11, in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts. As shown in FIG. 12,
   the clevis 1223 can have a cylindrical outer surface that includes at least one first flat portion
   1229 that registers with a corresponding second flat portion (not shown) of the inner surface
 0 of the distal end. The registration of the first flat portion 1229 and the second flat portion
   prevents twisting of the second assembly 1222 relative to the first assembly 1221.
           The functional mechanism 1250 can include a grasper that is coupled to the clevis
   1223 at two pivot points. Although a grasper 1250 is shown, other functional mechanisms
   can equally apply. Here, a first pin 1251 can extend through a hole at a first side of the clevis
25 1223, and a second pin (not shown) can extend through a hole at a second side of the clevis
   1223 opposite the first side. As shown in FIG. 12, the grasper 1250 can extend along a same
   direction of extension as an articulation region 1235 and a first assembly 1221 of the surgical
   tool 1200. The pivot regions permit the grasper 1250 to move in a direction that is tangential
   to the direction of extension during an operation, for example, by controlling one or more
30 articulation cables (not shown) from a handle, joystick, or other controller device.
           FIG. 13 is an expanded view of the handle assembly 1205 illustrated in FIG. 10, in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts. The handle
   assembly 1205 can be coupled to a proximal end of the support element 1231 at a proximal
                                                  -53-

   end of the first assembly 1221. At least one steering cable 1410 can be coupled to the handle
   1205 and/or the ball and socket assembly 1212 to control articulation of the first assembly
   1221.   A locking mechanism 1462 such as a threaded nut, thumb screw, or similar device can
   extend through the ball and socket assembly, for locking a position of the ball and socket
 5 assembly 1212, which can hold the steering cables 1410 in place.
             The activation element 1420 can be coupled to the trigger 1208. The trigger 1208
   can be spring-loaded, for example, including a spring assembly 1251 between the trigger
   1208 and the handle 1205. The trigger 1208 when pulled or otherwise activated can induce a
   motion of the activation element 1420. In particular, the activation element 1420 can move
 0 in a direction towards the handle assembly 1205. A release of the trigger 1208 by an operator
   causes the trigger 1208 to reset in turn allowing the activation element 1420 to move in an
   opposite direction, for example, toward the functional mechanism 1250.
           The handle assembly 1205 includes one or more mounts 1246 which secure a
   proximal end of the support element 1231 to the handle 1205. The mount 1246 can include
 5 two or more compressible elements that hold the support element 1231 in place between them.
   The activation element 1420 can extend through the mount 1246 to the trigger 1208.
           FIGs. 14A and 14B illustrate an operation of an articulating surgical tool 1400, in
   accordance with an embodiment. In particular, FIG. 14A is cross-sectional side view of an
   articulating surgical tool 1400 having a functional element in an open state, and FIG. 14B is
 0 cross-sectional side view of the articulating surgical tool 1400 of FIG. 14A, where the
   functional element is in a closed state. The surgical tool 1400 is similar to the surgical tool
   1200described herein with reference to FIGs. 10-13, with one notable exception: a different
   functional mechanism 1450 is attached to a clevis 1423, for example, a pair of surgical
   scissors.
25         The scissors 1450 can include two blades 1455, 1456 attached to each other at a
   fulcrum 1452. A spring-biased element 1451 can be attached between the blades 1455, 1456
   to maintain the scissors 1450 at an open position as shown at FIG. 14A. An arm 1457, 1458
   can be movably coupled to each blade 1455, 1456, respectively, at a pivot point 1459. An
   attachment 1453 can be movably attached to an outermost end of each arm 1457, 1458 at a
30 pivot point 1459. The four pivot points 1459 permit the scissors 1450 to open and close
   when a force is applied to the attachment 1453.
                                                 -54-

            A distal end of an activation element 1420 is coupled to the scissors attachment 1453.
   A proximal end of the activation element 1420 is coupled to the handle trigger 1408 of a
   handle 1405.
            In the first state, or open state, shown in FIG. 14A, the functional mechanism 1450 is
 5 in an equilibrium condition, where no force is applied from the attachment 1453 to the
   scissors 1450.
            The spring-biased element 1452 can operate to apply a force relative to the movement
   of the activation element 1420. In the first state, the spring-biased element 1452 applies a
   force between the blades 1455, 1456 and can reset the functional mechanism 1450. In the
 0 first state, no force is applied by the steering cables 1410a, 1410b, i.e., Fsc1=0, Fsc2=0. Also,
   no force is applied by the activation element 1420, i.e., Fal=0.
            In the second state shown in FIG. 14B, a force is imparted by the activation element
   1420, i.e., Fal>0. The force Fal can be imparted by squeezing (S) the trigger 1408, or other
   device that pulls the activation element 1420 in a direction away from the scissors 1450. In
 5 doing so, the activation element 1420 can move in a linear direction within the lumen of the
   support element 1431, which is held in place in the surgical tool 1400. The force Fal
   imparted by the movement of the activation element 1420 is isolated from the first assembly
   1421 by the support element 1431. Accordingly, the force Fal imparted by the movement of
   the activation element 1420 does not affect or change the forces applied by the steering
 0 cables 1410a, 1410b, e.g., Fsc1=0, Fsc2=0. In another example, forces applied by the
   steering cable, e.g., Fscl=x, Fsc2=y, during movement of the activation element 1420 are not
   changed by the force Fal imparted by the movement of the activation element 1420.
   In this manner, the isolation of the force imparted by the movement of the activation element
   1420 relative to the first assembly 1421 by the support element 1431 prevents binding at an
25 articulation region 1435 of the first assembly 1421. For example, the steering cables 1410
   can be prevented from binding or locking up as a result of movement of the activation
   element 1420. Such isolation of the forces as provided by the embodiments of the present
   inventive concepts is not necessarily perfect or complete, as a marginal amount of force
   transfer to elements of the first assembly 1421 can occur, while still preventing or largely
30 mitigating any binding or locking at the articulation region 1435 of the first assembly 1421.
            The longitudinal clearances 1438, 1439 can also contribute to preventing the force
   Fal from impacting the steering cable forces Fscl, Fsc2. For example, the longitudinal
                                                    - 55 -

   clearance 1439 can be reduced from a width W to a width W' when the force Fal is imparted,
   preventing the imparted force Fal from imparting the other forces, namely, Fsc l, Fsc2.
            In the illustrated embodiment, a compressible element 1464 can be positioned at the
   first longitudinal clearance 1238 and/or a second longitudinal clearance 1239, such as a
 5 spring, a compressible disk such as an elastomeric disk, a hydraulic piston, a pneumatic
   piston, or combinations thereof. The introduction of a material or device 1464 at the gaps
   1238, 1239 can provide for additional stability, and can absorb shock or force-related event
   that may occur during operation.
 0          FIGs. 15A-15C are cross-sectional side views of an articulating surgical tool 1500,
   each side view representing a different state of the articulating surgical tool 1500, in
   accordance with another embodiment of the present inventive concepts. Here, the second
   assembly 1522 does not extend through the first assembly 1521. Instead, the second
   assembly 1522 is adjacent the first assembly 1521, for example, extending along a common
 5 direction of extension. The first assembly 1521 and the second assembly 1522 are co-located
   in a lumen of a sheath 1581. The second assembly 1522 includes a support element 1531 and
   an activation element 1520 that moves freely proximal to an outer surface of the support
   element 1531.      Accordingly, a central opening, referred to above as a first cable channel,
   may not be required at the first assembly 1521, since an activation element 1520 does not
 0 extend through the first assembly 1521; rather, the activation element 1520 extends along an
   outer surface of the first assembly 1521. Here, the first assembly 1521 can include openings,
   referred to above as second cable channels, for receiving one or more steering cables 1510
   which can control a movement of the articulation region 1535 of the first assembly 1521.
   Articulation region 1535 terminates at distal link 1580. Distal link 1580 may be an atraumatic
25 tip, such as a tip designed to prevent trauma to tissue, such as during operation or insertion of
   surgical tool 1500.
            A functional element 1550, for example, scissors, grasper, and so on, can be coupled
   to the activation element 1520, which controls the movement of the functional element 1550
   by applying a force in a manner similar to that described herein. A mount (not shown) such
30 as a clevis can be positioned between the functional element 1550 and a distal end of the
   second assembly 1522.
            In FIG. 15A, the surgical tool 1500 is in a first state, where the first and second
   assemblies 1521, 1522 extend in a longitudinal direction of extension. The functional
                                                  -56-

   element 1550 can be in a state of equilibrium, i.e., the blades are open due to a spring-biased
   element (not shown) attached between the blades similar to that shown in FIGs. 14A and 14B,
   and further due to no tension being applied to the activation element 1520. Here, no force
   Fal of the activation element 1520 is applied, and no forces Fscl, Fsc2 of the first and second
 5 steering cables 1510 are applied.
           In FIG. 15B, the surgical tool 1500 is in a second state, where the first and second
   assemblies 1521, 1522 extend in a longitudinal direction of extension, and the functional
   element 1550 is closed due to a force Fal being at the activation element 1520. For example,
   the activation element 1520 is being pulled in a direction away from the functional element
 0 1550. Here, the force Fal imparted by the movement of the activation element 1520 is
   isolated from the articulation region 1535 of the first assembly 1521, thereby preventing the
   links at the articulation region 1535 from being pressed against each other which can
   otherwise lock them up. Binding at the steering cables 1510 can also be prevented. No
   forces Fscl, Fsc2 of the first and second steering cables 1510 are applied.
 5         In FIG. 15C, the surgical tool 1500 is in a third state, where the first and second
   assemblies 1521, 1522 are bent or angled relative to a longitudinal direction of extension due
   to forces Fsc1 and/or Fsc2 being applied to the steering cables 1510, i.e., Fsc1<0, Fsc2>0.
   Also, the functional element 1550 is opened similar to FIG. 15A due to no force Fal at the
   activation element 1520, i.e., Fal=0. Here, the forces Fscl, Fsc2 applied by the steering
 0 cables 1510 do not affect the force Fal applied by the activation element 1520. Therefore,
   the risk of an unintentional opening or closing of the functional element 1550 is reduced or
   eliminated during movement of the articulation region 1535.
           While the present inventive concepts have been particularly shown and described
   above with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those of
25 ordinary skill in the art, that various changes in form and detail can be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the present inventive concepts described and defined
   by the following claims.
                                                  - 57 -

CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.     A surgical tool comprising:
       an elongated first assembly; and
       an elongated second assembly comprising:
               an elongated support element;
               an elongated activation element moveable relative to the support
               element; and
               a functional mechanism coupled to the activation element, a movement
               of the functional mechanism being in response to a movement of the
               activation element,
       wherein a force imparted by the movement of the activation element is isolated
       from the first assembly by the support element.
2.     The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the second assembly further comprises a
       clevis coupled to the support element.
3.     The surgical tool of claim 2 wherein the clevis is coupled to a distal end of the
       support element.
4.     The surgical tool of claim 2 wherein an inner surface of the clevis is coupled to
       an outer surface of the support element.
5.     The surgical tool of claim 2 wherein the clevis is bonded to the support element.
6.     The surgical tool of claim 5 wherein the bond includes an adhesive.
7.     The surgical tool of claim 5 wherein the clevis is welded to the support element.
8.     The surgical tool of claim 5 wherein the clevis and the support element are
       coupled by at least one of swaging, threading, pinning, snap-fitting, press-fitting,
       or coupling together.
                                            -58-

9.  The surgical tool of claim 2 wherein the activation element moves freely along a
    direction of extension of the support element and the clevis.
10. The surgical tool of claim 2 wherein the surgical tool further comprises a
    longitudinal clearance between the clevis and a distal end of the first assembly.
11. The surgical tool of claim 10 wherein the longitudinal clearance is dimensioned,
    in a longitudinal direction, to prevent contact between the clevis and the distal
    end of the first assembly when the force is imparted by the movement of the
    activation element.
12. The surgical tool of claim 11 wherein the dimension of the longitudinal
    clearance ensures the isolation of the imparted force.
13. The surgical tool of claim 11 wherein the dimension of the longitudinal
    clearance provides for play between the clevis and the distal end of the first
    assembly when the force is imparted.
14. The surgical tool of claim 11 wherein the dimension of the longitudinal
    clearance is reduced when the force is imparted.
15. The surgical tool of claim 10 further comprising a compressible material
    positioned in the longitudinal clearance.
16. The surgical tool of claim 15 wherein the compressible material comprises at
    least one of elastomer, polymer, rubber, foam, sponge material, or combinations
    thereof.
17. The surgical tool of claim 10 further comprising a compressible element
    positioned in the longitudinal clearance.
18. The surgical tool of claim 17 wherein the compressible element comprises at
    least one of a spring, a compressible disk, an elastomeric disk, a hydraulic
    piston, a pneumatic piston, or combinations thereof.
19. The surgical tool of claim 2 wherein the clevis includes a base and a protrusion
    extending from the base.
20. The surgical tool of claim 19 wherein the protrusion extends into a recess of a
    distal end of the first assembly.
                                          -59-

21. The surgical tool of claim 20 wherein the recess includes an inner end wall and a
    sidewall.
22. The surgical tool of claim 21 wherein a longitudinal clearance is between the
    protrusion and the inner end wall of the recess.
23. The surgical tool of claim 19 wherein the base is wider than the protrusion.
24. The surgical tool of claim 19 wherein a longitudinal clearance is between the
    base of the clevis and the distal end of the first assembly.
25. The surgical tool of claim 19 wherein an outer width of the base is equal to an
    outer width of the distal end of the first assembly.
26. The surgical tool of claim 19 wherein the protrusion has a cylindrical outer
    surface and the distal end has a cylindrical inner surface.
27. The surgical tool of claim 26 wherein the cylindrical outer surface of the
    protrusion includes at least one first flat portion that registers with a
    corresponding second flat portion of the inner surface of the distal end.
28. The surgical tool of claim 27 wherein the registration of the first and second flat
    portions prevents twisting of the second assembly relative to the first assembly.
29. The surgical tool of claim 2 wherein the clevis includes a housing for receiving
    the functional mechanism.
30. The surgical tool of claim 29 wherein the activation element is coupled to the
    functional mechanism at the housing.
31. The surgical tool of claim 30 wherein the housing is dimensioned to permit the
    functional mechanism to expand and contract relative to the housing during the
    movement of the functional mechanism.
32. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the second assembly is in communication
    with the first assembly so that the support element of the second assembly is
    movable relative to the first assembly.
33. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element includes a lumen that
    extends along a direction of extension of the support element.
                                           - 60-

34. The surgical tool of claim 33 wherein the activation element is slidably
    positioned in the lumen of the support element.
35. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element slidably
    communicates with the support element in a direction of extension of the
    support element.
36. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element is constructed and
    arranged as a coil.
37. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element is constructed and
    arranged as a rod.
38. The surgical tool of claim 37 wherein the rod has limited compression in a
    direction of extension of the support element and is flexible in a lateral direction
    relative to the direction of extension.
39. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element is constructed and
    arranged as a hollow tube.
40. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element comprises an
    arrangement of multiple links.
41. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element has limited
    compression in a direction of extension of the support element and is flexible in
    a lateral direction relative to the direction of extension.
42. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element absorbs a load caused
    by the force imparted by the movement of the activation element.
43. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the support element prevents a force from
    being applied to the first assembly when the force is imparted by the movement
    of the activation element.
44. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element is freely moveable
    relative to the support element.
45. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element moves freely within
    the support element.
                                            - 61 -

46. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element moves freely
    proximal to an outer surface of the support element.
47. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein movement of the activation element is
    induced by a handle at a proximal end of the surgical tool.
48. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element is constructed and
    arranged as a wire.
49. The surgical tool of claim 48 wherein the wire is constructed and arranged to
    deliver energy and/or data.
50. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element is constructed and
    arranged as a cable.
51. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element is constructed and
    arranged as a fiber.
52. The surgical tool of claim 51 wherein the fiber is constructed and arranged to
    deliver energy and/or data.
53. The surgical tool of claim 51 wherein the activation element comprises a
    lubricious outer surface portion.
54. The surgical tool of claim 53 wherein the lubricious outer surface portion
    comprises a material selected from the group consisting of: Teflon@; graphite; a
    hydrophilic coating; a surface area reducing texture; and combinations thereof.
55. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the functional mechanism comprises at
    least one of: a grasper; a scissor; a cutter; a claw; or a knife.
56. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the functional mechanism comprises at
    least one of: an ablator, a cauterizer, a drug delivery apparatus, a radiation
    source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood sensor, a camera, a magnet,
    a heating element or a cryogenic element.
57. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the functional mechanism comprises a
    spring-biased tool.
                                           - 62  -

58. The surgical tool of claim 57 wherein the spring-biased tool operates to apply a
    force relative to the movement of the activation element.
59. The surgical tool of claim 57 wherein the spring-biased tool operates to apply a
    force to reset the functional mechanism.
60. The surgical tool of claim 57 wherein the spring-biased tool operates to apply a
    force that is opposite the force imparted by the movement of the activation
    element.
61. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the functional element is constructed and
    arranged to articulate with respect to a direction of extension of the first
    assembly.
62. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the functional mechanism includes an
    actuating piston coupled to the activation element to link the activation element
    to the functional mechanism.
63. The surgical tool of claim 62 wherein the actuating piston is positioned within
    an inner cavity of a distal and of the first assembly.
64. The surgical tool of claim 63 wherein the functional element further includes
    first and second actuation link members coupled to the actuating piston.
65. The surgical tool of claim 64 wherein the first and second actuation link
    members include a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic,
    a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride; liquid-crystal
    polymer; and combinations thereof.
66. The surgical tool of claim 64 wherein the functional element further includes
    first and second claw members respectively coupled to the first and second
    actuation link members.
67. The surgical tool of claim 66 wherein the first and second claw members include
    a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic
    polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride; liquid-crystal polymer; and
    combinations thereof.
                                           - 63  -

68. The surgical tool of claim 66 wherein linear movement of the actuating piston
    within the inner cavity causes the first and second claw members to open and
    close.
69. The surgical tool of claim 1 further comprising a handle coupled to a proximal
    end of the support element at a proximal end of the first assembly.
70. The surgical tool of claim 69 wherein the handle controls the surgical tool.
71. The surgical tool of claim 69 further comprising at least one steering cable that
    operates to control articulation of the first assembly, wherein the at least one
    steering cable is coupled to the handle.
72. The surgical tool of claim 71 further comprising a ball and socket mechanism in
    communication with the handle that controls movement of the at least one
    steering cable.
73. The surgical tool of claim 72 further comprising a locking mechanism that locks
    a position of the ball and socket mechanism.
74. The surgical tool of claim 73 wherein the locking mechanism comprises a
    threaded nut or a thumb screw.
75. The surgical tool of claim 69 wherein the activation element is coupled to the
    handle.
76. The surgical tool of claim 75 wherein the handle includes a trigger and wherein
    the activation element is coupled to the trigger.
77. The surgical tool of claim 76 wherein the trigger is spring-loaded.
78. The surgical tool of claim 77 wherein activation of the trigger moves the
    activation element in a first direction.
79. The surgical tool of claim 78 wherein release of the trigger by an operator
    causes the trigger to reset in turn allowing the activation element to move in a
    second direction opposite the first direction.
80. The surgical tool of claim 76 wherein the trigger initiates the movement of the
    activation element in a direction toward the trigger.
                                            - 64-

81. The surgical tool of claim 69 wherein the handle includes a mount at which the
    support element is coupled.
82. The surgical tool of claim 81 wherein the support element is coupled to the
    mount at a proximal end of the support element.
83. The surgical tool of claim 81 wherein the handle further includes a trigger and
    wherein the activation element extends through the mount to the trigger.
84. The surgical tool of claim 69 wherein the handle includes one selected from the
    group consisting of: scissor handles; a palm-held grip; a thumb/index/middle
    finger grip; a pistol grip; a reciprocating trigger; and combinations thereof.
85. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the surgical tool includes a locking device
    constructed and arranged to lock an articulated position of the functional
    mechanism.
86. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the surgical tool includes a locking device
    constructed and arranged to lock an operational mode of the functional
    mechanism.
87. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the first assembly is adjacent an outer
    surface of the second assembly.
88. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the first and second assemblies extend in a
    same direction of extension.
89. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the first assembly and the second assembly
    are co-located in a lumen of an articulating probe.
90. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the second assembly is
    positioned in the first assembly.
91. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the isolation of the force imparted by the
    movement of the activation element relative to the first assembly by the support
    element prevents binding at an articulation region of the first assembly.
                                            - 65 -

92.  The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the isolation of the force imparted by the
     movement of the activation element relative to the first assembly by the support
     element prevents binding of articulation segments at an articulation region of the
     first assembly.
93.  The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the surgical tool is constructed and
     arranged to be controlled via a human interface device.
94.  The surgical tool of claim 93 wherein the human interface device includes one
     selected from the group consisting of: a haptic controller; a joystick; a track ball;
     a mouse; an electromechanical device; and combinations thereof.
95.  The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the first assembly comprises:
     a tool shaft;
     an articulation region comprising a plurality of articulation segments; and
     at least two steering cables extending through the tool shaft to the articulation
     region.
96.  The surgical tool of claim 95 wherein the articulation region is at a distal end of
     the surgical tool.
97.  The surgical tool of claim 95 wherein the at least two steering cables control an
     articulation of the articulation segments.
98.  The surgical tool of claim 97 wherein at least of the articulation segments
     includes at least one articulation cable channel through which a steering cable of
     the at least two steering cables extends.
99.  The surgical tool of claim 98 wherein the at least one articulation cable channel
     comprises first through third articulation cable channels that are spaced
     approximately 1200 apart around a circumference or perimeter of the articulation
     segment.
100. The surgical tool of claim 98 wherein the at least one articulation cable channel
     comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced
     approximately 900 apart around a circumference or perimeter of the articulation
     segment.
                                           - 66 -

101. The surgical tool of claim 98 wherein the at least one articulation cable channel
     comprises first through fourth articulation cable channels that are spaced
     approximately 900 apart from one another along a common radial path relative
     to a center axis of the first assembly.
102. The surgical tool of claim 97 wherein the at least two steering cables operate to
     lock an articulation position of the articulation region.
103. The surgical tool of claim 102 further comprising a locking mechanism that
     retains the steering cables in a locked position.
104. The surgical tool of claim 95 wherein the force imparted by the movement of the
     activation element is isolated from the articulation region by the support
     element.
105. The surgical tool of claim 104 wherein the force imparted by the movement of
     the activation element is independent from an orientation of the articulation
     region.
106. The surgical tool of claim 104 wherein the force imparted by the movement of
     the activation element is independent from a force applied to the at least two
     steering cables.
107. The surgical tool of claim 104 wherein the isolation of the force imparted by the
     movement of the activation element from the articulation region prevents
     binding of the at least two steering cables.
108. The surgical tool of claim 104 wherein the isolation of the force imparted by the
     movement of the activation element from the articulation region prevents
     inadvertent locking of neighboring articulation segments.
109. The surgical tool of claim 104 wherein the isolation of the force imparted by the
     movement of the activation element from the articulation region avoids
     movement of the articulation region in response to a movement of the activation
     element
110. The surgical tool of claim 104 wherein the tool shaft includes a lumen guiding
     member for receiving the activation element and the at least two steering cables.
                                             - 67 -

111. The surgical tool of claim 110 wherein the lumen guiding member includes a
     multi-lumen stiffening rod.
112. The surgical tool of claim 111 wherein the multi-lumen stiffening rod includes a
     first cable channel for receiving the activation element and a plurality of second
     cable channels for receiving the at least two steering cables.
113. The surgical tool of claim 95 wherein the articulation region of the tool shaft
     includes at least two segment links.
114. The surgical tool of claim 113 wherein a first segment link of the at least two
     segment links is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool shaft, and a second
     segment link of the at least two segment links is in communication with the
     functional mechanism.
115. The surgical tool of claim 114 wherein the articulation region of the tool shaft
     further includes one or more third segment links coupled between the first
     segment link and the second segment link.
116. The surgical tool of claim 114 wherein the first segment link includes a body
     having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes
     a semi-spherical body portion.
117. The surgical tool of claim 114 wherein the first segment link includes a body
     having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes
     a convex body portion.
118. The surgical tool of claim 117 wherein the convex body portion is a semi
     spherical body portion.
119. The surgical tool of claim 117 wherein the convex body portion is a semi
     ellipsoidal body portion.
120. The surgical tool of claim 117 wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical
     body portion.
121. The surgical tool of claim 114 wherein a semi-spherical body portion of the first
     segment link mates with a semi-spherical cavity portion of the first shaft portion.
                                           -68-

122. The surgical tool of claim 114 wherein a semi-spherical body portion of the first
     segment link mates with a concave cavity portion of the first shaft portion.
123. The surgical tool of claim 114 wherein the second segment link includes a body
     having a first portion and a second portion, wherein the second portion includes
     a convex body portion.
124. The surgical tool of claim 123 wherein the convex body portion is a semi
     spherical body portion.
125. The surgical tool of claim 123 wherein the convex body portion is a semi
     ellipsoidal body portion.
126. The surgical tool of claim 123 wherein the first portion includes a cylindrical
     body portion.
127. The surgical tool of claim 113 wherein a bottom surface of a first portion of a
     first segment link of the plurality of segment links abuts an upper surface of a
     first portion of a second segment link of the plurality of segment links to restrict
     an angle of articulation with respect to a center axis of each of the first and
     second segment links.
128. The surgical tool of claim 127 wherein the angle of articulation is restricted to
     approximately 120 to 15'.
129. The surgical tool of claim 113 wherein each segment link of the at least two is
     constructed and arranged to provide approximately 12' to 15' of articulation
     between the functional mechanism and a working surface of the surgical tool.
130. The surgical tool of claim 113 wherein each segment link of the at least two is
     constructed and arranged to provide approximately 12' to 150 of articulation
     between the functional mechanism and a working surface of the tool shaft.
131. The surgical tool of claim 113 wherein the articulation region is constructed and
     arranged to support a force of 1 lbF without deflecting more than approximately
        inch.
                                            - 69 -

132. The surgical tool of claim 113 wherein the articulation region is constructed and
     arranged to support a force of approximately 1 lbF without deflecting more than
     approximately      inch when in a fully articulated state.
133. The surgical tool of claim 113 wherein a distal end of the support element is
     positioned at the second segment link.
134. The surgical tool of claim 95 wherein the articulation region of the first
     assembly includes a lumen and wherein a portion of the second assembly is
     positioned in the lumen of the first assembly.
135. The surgical tool of claim 95 wherein each of the at least two steering cables has
     a proximal end terminating at a surgical tool handle, and wherein the movement
     of the articulation segments relative to each other is controlled by the surgical
     tool handle.
136. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the first assembly is adjacent an outer
     surface of the second assembly and extends along a common direction of
     extension as the second assembly.
137. The surgical tool of claim 1 further comprising a sheath, the first assembly and
     the second assembly co-located in a lumen of a sheath.
138. The surgical tool of claim 1 wherein the activation element extends along an
     outer surface of the first assembly.
139. A method of performing a medical procedure using the surgical tool of claim 1.
                                           -70-

140. A system for performing a medical procedure comprising:
     an articulating probe including inner and outer sleeves; and
     a surgical tool comprising:
             an elongated first assembly;
             an elongated second assembly comprising:
                     an elongated support element;
                     an elongated activation element moveable relative to the support
                     element; and
                     a functional mechanism coupled to the activation element, a
                     movement of the functional mechanism being in response to a
                     movement of the activation element,
             wherein a force imparted by the movement of the activation element is
             isolated from the first assembly by the support element,
     wherein the articulating probe and the surgical tool are independently
     controllable.
141. A surgical tool comprising:
     an elongated first assembly; and
     an elongated second assembly comprising:
     an elongated support element;
     an elongated activation element moveable relative to the support element; and
     a functional mechanism coupled to the activation element, a movement of the
     functional mechanism being in response to a movement of the activation
     element,
     wherein a force imparted by the movement of the activation element is isolated
     from the first assembly by the support element.
142. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the second
     assembly further comprises a clevis coupled to the support element.
143. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the clevis is
     coupled to a distal end of the support element.
                                            -71 -

144. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein an inner surface
     of the clevis is coupled to an outer surface of the support element.
145. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the clevis is
     bonded to the support element.
146. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the bond
     includes an adhesive.
147. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the clevis is
     welded to the support element.
148. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the clevis and
     the support element are coupled by at least one of swaging, threading, pinning,
     snap-fitting, press-fitting, or coupling together.
149. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element moves freely along a direction of extension of the support element and
     the clevis.
150. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the surgical tool
     further comprises a longitudinal clearance between the clevis and a distal end of
     the first assembly.
151. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the longitudinal
     clearance is dimensioned, in a longitudinal direction, to prevent contact between
     the clevis and the distal end of the first assembly when the force is imparted by
     the movement of the activation element.
152. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the dimension
     of the longitudinal clearance ensures the isolation of the imparted force.
153. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the dimension
     of the longitudinal clearance provides for play between the clevis and the distal
     end of the first assembly when the force is imparted.
154. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the dimension
     of the longitudinal clearance is reduced when the force is imparted.
                                            -72-

155. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a
     compressible material positioned in the longitudinal clearance.
156. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the
     compressible material comprises at least one of elastomer, polymer, rubber,
     foam, sponge material, or combinations thereof.
157. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a
     compressible element positioned in the longitudinal clearance.
158. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the
     compressible element comprises at least one of a spring, a compressible disk, an
     elastomeric disk, a hydraulic piston, a pneumatic piston, or combinations
     thereof.
159. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the clevis
     includes a base and a protrusion extending from the base.
160. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the protrusion
     extends into a recess of a distal end of the first assembly.
161. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the recess
     includes an inner end wall and a sidewall.
162. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein a longitudinal
     clearance is between the protrusion and the inner end wall of the recess.
163. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the base is
     wider than the protrusion.
164. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein a longitudinal
     clearance is between the base of the clevis and the distal end of the first
     assembly.
165. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein an outer width
     of the base is equal to an outer width of the distal end of the first assembly.
166. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the protrusion
     has a cylindrical outer surface and the distal end has a cylindrical inner surface.
                                            -73-

167. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the cylindrical
     outer surface of the protrusion includes at least one first flat portion that
     registers with a corresponding second flat portion of the inner surface of the
     distal end.
168. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the registration
     of the first and second flat portions prevents twisting of the second assembly
     relative to the first assembly.
169. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the clevis
     includes a housing for receiving the functional mechanism.
170. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element is coupled to the functional mechanism at the housing.
171. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the housing is
     dimensioned to permit the functional mechanism to expand and contract relative
     to the housing during the movement of the functional mechanism.
172. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the second
     assembly is in communication with the first assembly so that the support
     element of the second assembly is movable relative to the first assembly.
173. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element includes a lumen that extends along a direction of extension of the
     support element.
174. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element is slidably positioned in the lumen of the support element.
175. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element slidably communicates with the support element in a direction of
     extension of the support element.
176. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element is constructed and arranged as a coil.
177. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element is constructed and arranged as a rod.
                                            -74-

178. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the rod has
     limited compression in a direction of extension of the support element and is
     flexible in a lateral direction relative to the direction of extension.
179. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element is constructed and arranged as a hollow tube.
180. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element comprises an arrangement of multiple links.
181. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element has limited compression in a direction of extension of the support
     element and is flexible in a lateral direction relative to the direction of extension.
182. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element absorbs a load caused by the force imparted by the movement of the
     activation element.
183. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element prevents a force from being applied to the first assembly when the force
     is imparted by the movement of the activation element.
184. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element is freely moveable relative to the support element.
185. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element moves freely within the support element.
186. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element moves freely proximal to an outer surface of the support element.
187. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein movement of
     the activation element is induced by a handle at a proximal end of the surgical
     tool.
188. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element is constructed and arranged as a wire.
189. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the wire is
     constructed and arranged to deliver energy and/or data.
                                             - 75  -

190. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element is constructed and arranged as a cable.
191. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element is constructed and arranged as a fiber.
192. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the fiber is
     constructed and arranged to deliver energy and/or data.
193. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element comprises a lubricious outer surface portion.
194. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the lubricious
     outer surface portion comprises a material selected from the group consisting of:
     Teflon@; graphite; a hydrophilic coating; a surface area reducing texture; and
     combinations thereof.
195. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the functional
     mechanism comprises at least one of: a grasper; a scissor; a cutter; a claw; or a
     knife.
196. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the functional
     mechanism comprises at least one of: an ablator, a cauterizer, a drug delivery
     apparatus, a radiation source, an EKG electrode, a pressure sensor, a blood
     sensor, a camera, a magnet, a heating element or a cryogenic element.
197. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the functional
     mechanism comprises a spring-biased tool.
198. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the spring
     biased tool operates to apply a force relative to the movement of the activation
     element.
199. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the spring
     biased tool operates to apply a force to reset the functional mechanism.
200. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the spring
     biased tool operates to apply a force that is opposite the force imparted by the
     movement of the activation element.
                                            - 76-

201. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the functional
     element is constructed and arranged to articulate with respect to a direction of
     extension of the first assembly.
202. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the functional
     mechanism includes an actuating piston coupled to the activation element to link
     the activation element to the functional mechanism.
203. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the actuating
     piston is positioned within an inner cavity of a distal and of the first assembly.
204. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the functional
     element further includes first and second actuation link members coupled to the
     actuating piston.
205. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first and
     second actuation link members include a material selected from the group
     consisting of: metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl
     chloride; liquid-crystal polymer; and combinations thereof.
206. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the functional
     element further includes first and second claw members respectively coupled to
     the first and second actuation link members.
207. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first and
     second claw members include a material selected from the group consisting of:
     metal, plastic, a thermoplastic polymer, stainless steel, polyvinyl chloride;
     liquid-crystal polymer; and combinations thereof.
208. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein linear
     movement of the actuating piston within the inner cavity causes the first and
     second claw members to open and close.
209. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a
     handle coupled to a proximal end of the support element at a proximal end of the
     first assembly.
                                            - 77 -

210. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the handle
     controls the surgical tool.
211. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising at
     least one steering cable that operates to control articulation of the first assembly,
     wherein the at least one steering cable is coupled to the handle.
212. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a ball
     and socket mechanism in communication with the handle that controls
     movement of the at least one steering cable.
213. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a
     locking mechanism that locks a position of the ball and socket mechanism.
214. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the locking
     mechanism comprises a threaded nut or a thumb screw.
215. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element is coupled to the handle.
216. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the handle
     includes a trigger and wherein the activation element is coupled to the trigger.
217. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the trigger is
     spring-loaded.
218. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein activation of
     the trigger moves the activation element in a first direction.
219. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein release of the
     trigger by an operator causes the trigger to reset in turn allowing the activation
     element to move in a second direction opposite the first direction.
220. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the trigger
     initiates the movement of the activation element in a direction toward the
     trigger.
221. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the handle
     includes a mount at which the support element is coupled.
                                            -78-

222. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the support
     element is coupled to the mount at a proximal end of the support element.
223. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the handle
     further includes a trigger and wherein the activation element extends through the
     mount to the trigger.
224. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the handle
     includes one selected from the group consisting of: scissor handles; a palm-held
     grip; a thumb/index/middle finger grip; a pistol grip; a reciprocating trigger; and
     combinations thereof.
225. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the surgical tool
     includes a locking device constructed and arranged to lock an articulated
     position of the functional mechanism.
226. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the surgical tool
     includes a locking device constructed and arranged to lock an operational mode
     of the functional mechanism.
227. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first
     assembly is adjacent an outer surface of the second assembly.
228. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first and
     second assemblies extend in a same direction of extension.
229. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first
     assembly and the second assembly are co-located in a lumen of an articulating
     probe.
230. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein at least a
     portion of the second assembly is positioned in the first assembly.
231. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the isolation of
     the force imparted by the movement of the activation element relative to the first
     assembly by the support element prevents binding at an articulation region of the
     first assembly.
                                            - 79 -

232. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the isolation of
     the force imparted by the movement of the activation element relative to the first
     assembly by the support element prevents binding of articulation segments at an
     articulation region of the first assembly.
233. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the surgical tool
     is constructed and arranged to be controlled via a human interface device.
234. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the human
     interface device includes one selected from the group consisting of: a haptic
     controller; a joystick; a track ball; a mouse; an electromechanical device; and
     combinations thereof.
235. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first
     assembly comprises:
     a tool shaft;
     an articulation region comprising a plurality of articulation segments; and
     at least two steering cables extending through the tool shaft to the articulation
     region.
236. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the articulation
     region is at a distal end of the surgical tool.
237. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the at least two
     steering cables control an articulation of the articulation segments.
238. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein at least of the
     articulation segments includes at least one articulation cable channel through
     which a steering cable of the at least two steering cables extends.
239. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the at least one
     articulation cable channel comprises first through third articulation cable
     channels that are spaced approximately 120 apart around a circumference or
     perimeter of the articulation segment.
                                             -80-

240. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the at least one
     articulation cable channel comprises first through fourth articulation cable
     channels that are spaced approximately 900 apart around a circumference or
     perimeter of the articulation segment.
241. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the at least one
     articulation cable channel comprises first through fourth articulation cable
     channels that are spaced approximately 90' apart from one another along a
     common radial path relative to a center axis of the first assembly.
242. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the at least two
     steering cables operate to lock an articulation position of the articulation region.
243. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a
     locking mechanism that retains the steering cables in a locked position.
244. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the force
     imparted by the movement of the activation element is isolated from the
     articulation region by the support element.
245. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the force
     imparted by the movement of the activation element is independent from an
     orientation of the articulation region.
246. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the force
     imparted by the movement of the activation element is independent from a force
     applied to the at least two steering cables.
247. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the isolation of
     the force imparted by the movement of the activation element from the
     articulation region prevents binding of the at least two steering cables.
248. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the isolation of
     the force imparted by the movement of the activation element from the
     articulation region prevents inadvertent locking of neighboring articulation
     segments.
                                            - 81 -

249. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the isolation of
     the force imparted by the movement of the activation element from the
     articulation region avoids movement of the articulation region in response to a
     movement of the activation element
250. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the tool shaft
     includes a lumen guiding member for receiving the activation element and the at
     least two steering cables.
251. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the lumen
     guiding member includes a multi-lumen stiffening rod.
252. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the multi-lumen
     stiffening rod includes a first cable channel for receiving the activation element
     and a plurality of second cable channels for receiving the at least two steering
     cables.
253. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the articulation
     region of the tool shaft includes at least two segment links.
254. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein a first segment
     link of the at least two segment links is coupled to a first shaft portion of the tool
     shaft, and a second segment link of the at least two segment links is in
     communication with the functional mechanism.
255. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the articulation
     region of the tool shaft further includes one or more third segment links coupled
     between the first segment link and the second segment link.
256. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first
     segment link includes a body having a first portion and a second portion,
     wherein the second portion includes a semi-spherical body portion.
257. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first
     segment link includes a body having a first portion and a second portion,
     wherein the second portion includes a convex body portion.
                                            -82-

258. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the convex
     body portion is a semi-spherical body portion.
259. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the convex
     body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
260. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first portion
     includes a cylindrical body portion.
261. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein a semi
     spherical body portion of the first segment link mates with a semi-spherical
     cavity portion of the first shaft portion.
262. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein a semi
     spherical body portion of the first segment link mates with a concave cavity
     portion of the first shaft portion.
263. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the second
     segment link includes a body having a first portion and a second portion,
     wherein the second portion includes a convex body portion.
264. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the convex
     body portion is a semi-spherical body portion.
265. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the convex
     body portion is a semi-ellipsoidal body portion.
266. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first portion
     includes a cylindrical body portion.
267. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein a bottom
     surface of a first portion of a first segment link of the plurality of segment links
     abuts an upper surface of a first portion of a second segment link of the plurality
     of segment links to restrict an angle of articulation with respect to a center axis
     of each of the first and second segment links.
268. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the angle of
     articulation is restricted to approximately 120 to 15'.
                                             -83-

269. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein each segment
     link of the at least two is constructed and arranged to provide approximately 12'
     to 15' of articulation between the functional mechanism and a working surface
     of the surgical tool.
270. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein each segment
     link of the at least two is constructed and arranged to provide approximately 12'
     to 15' of articulation between the functional mechanism and a working surface
     of the tool shaft.
271. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the articulation
     region is constructed and arranged to support a force of 1 lbF without deflecting
     more than approximately        inch.
272. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the articulation
     region is constructed and arranged to support a force of approximately 1 lbF
     without deflecting more than approximately        inch when in a fully articulated
     state.
273. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein a distal end of
     the support element is positioned at the second segment link.
274. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the articulation
     region of the first assembly includes a lumen and wherein a portion of the
     second assembly is positioned in the lumen of the first assembly.
275. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein each of the at
     least two steering cables has a proximal end terminating at a surgical tool
     handle, and wherein the movement of the articulation segments relative to each
     other is controlled by the surgical tool handle.
276. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the first
     assembly is adjacent an outer surface of the second assembly and extends along
     a common direction of extension as the second assembly.
277. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims further comprising a
     sheath, the first assembly and the second assembly co-located in a lumen of a
     sheath.
                                            -84-

278. The surgical tool of at least one of the preceding claims wherein the activation
     element extends along an outer surface of the first assembly.
279. A system as described in reference to the figures.
280. An articulating probe as described in reference to the figures.
281. A surgical tool as described in reference to the figures.
282. A controller as described in reference to the figures.
283. A method of controlling a robotic system as described in reference to the
     figures.
284. A human interface device as described in reference to the figures.
285. A method of performing a medical procedure as described in reference to the
     figures.
                                            - 85 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
