                                             ABSTRACT
   In alternative embodiments, the invention provides methods for treating, ameliorating or
   protecting (preventing) an individual or a patient against a disease, an infection or a condition
   responsive to an increased paracrine polypeptide level in vivo comprising: providing a
 5 paracrine polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively linked to a transcriptional
   regulatory sequence; or an expression vehicle, a vector, a recombinant virus, or equivalent,
   having contained therein a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene, and the expression
   vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent can express the paracrine-encoding nucleic
   acid or gene in a cell or in vivo; and administering or delivering the paracrine polypeptide
10 encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively linked to a transcriptional regulatory sequence, or
   the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, to an individual or a patient
   in need thereof, thereby treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the individual or
   patient against the disease, infection or condition responsive to an increased paracrine
   polypeptide level.

                                                   -1
   SYSTEMIC DELIVERY AND REGULATED EXPRESSION OF PARACRINE GENES
              FOR CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES AND OTHER CONDITIONS
            The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
   No. 2013221615, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5 STATEMENT AS TO RIGHTS TO INVENTIONS MADE UNDER FEDERALLY SPONSORED
                                                RESEARCH
            This invention was made with government support under grant no. HL088426
   awarded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), DHHS. The government has certain rights
   in the invention.
10                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
            This invention relates to cellular and molecular biology and medicine. The invention
   provides compositions and in vitro and ex vivo methods. In alternative embodiments, the
   invention provides methods for treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) an individual
   or a patient against a disease, an infection or a condition responsive to an increased or a
15 sustained paracrine polypeptide level in vivo comprising: providing a paracrine polypeptide
   encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively linked to a transcriptional regulatory sequence; or
   an expression vehicle, a vector, a recombinant virus, or equivalent, having contained therein
   a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message, and the expression vehicle,
   vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent can express the paracrine-encoding encoding
20 nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message in a cell or in vivo; and administering or delivering
   the paracrine polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message operatively
   linked to a transcriptional regulatory sequence, or the expression vehicle, vector,
   recombinant virus, or equivalent, to an individual or a patient in need thereof, thereby
   treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the individual or patient against the disease,
25 infection or condition responsive to an increased paracrine polypeptide level.
                                             BACKGROUND
            Recently an intravenous injection of a virus vector encoding human Factor IX,which
   is deficient in Hemophilia B was shown to increase Factor IX concentration in the serum of
   subjects with Hemophilia B to a degree that lowered their requirements for exogenous Factor
30 IX infusion. However: 1) this protein was not under regulated expression, and therefore, did

                                                - 1a
not enable optimal tailoring of levels of the trans gene in the serum, 2) this system did not
provide for a means to turn off transgene expression in case

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   of undesired or unexpected effects, and 3) the gene, Factor IX, was not a paracrine gene,
   and had no beneficial cardiovascular effects, and therefore, could not be used to treat
   heart disease.
 5                                          SUMMARY
           The invention provides methods for treating, ameliorating or protecting
   (preventing) an individual or a patient against any disease, infection or condition
   responsive to an increased paracrine polypeptide level in vivo. In alternative
   embodiments, the invention provides methods for treating, ameliorating or protecting
10 (preventing) against a disease, an infection or a condition responsive to an increased or
   sustained peptide or paracrine polypeptide level in vivo comprising:
           (a) (i) providing a paracrine polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively
   linked to a transcriptional regulatory sequence; or an expression vehicle, a vector, a
   recombinant virus, or equivalent, having contained therein a paracrine-encoding nucleic
15 acid or gene, or a paracrine polypeptide-expressing nucleic acid, transcript or message,
   and the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent can express the
   paracrine-encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message in a cell or in vivo; and
           (ii) administering or delivering the paracrine polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid,
   gene, transcript or message operatively linked to a transcriptional regulatory sequence, or
20 the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, to the cell, or an
   individual or a patient in need thereof,
           thereby treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the individual or patient
   against the disease, infection or condition responsive to an increased or a sustained
   paracrine polypeptide level;
25         (b) the method of (a), wherein the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
   or equivalent is or comprises:
           an adeno-associated virus (AAV), a lentiviral vector or an adenovirus vector,
           an AAV serotype AAV5, AAV6, AAV8 or AAV9,
           a rhesus-derived AAV, or the rhesus-derived AAV AAVrh. 1OhCLN2,
30         an AAV capsid mutant or AAV hybrid serotype,
           an organ-tropic AAV, or a cardiotropic AAV, or a cardiotropic AAVM41 mutant,
                                                     2

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
           wherein optionally the AAV is engineered to increase efficiency in targeting a
   specific cell type that is non-permissive to a wild type (wt) AAV and/or to improve
   efficacy in infecting only a cell type of interest,
           and optionally the hybrid AAV is retargeted or engineered as a hybrid serotype by
 5 one or more modifications comprising: 1) a transcapsidation, 2) adsorption of a bi
   specific antibody to a capsid surface, 3) engineering a mosaic capsid, and/or 4)
   engineering a chimeric capsid;
           (c) the method of (a), wherein the paracrine-encoding nucleic acid, gene,
   transcript or message is operatively linked to a regulated or inducible transcriptional
10 regulatory sequence;
           (d) the method of (c), wherein the regulated or inducible transcriptional regulatory
   sequence is a regulated or inducible promoter,
           wherein optionally a positive (an activator) and/or a negative (a repressor)
   modulator of transcription and/or translation is operably linked to the paracrine
15 polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message;
           (e) the method of any of (a) to (d), wherein administering the paracrine
   polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message operatively linked to a
   transcriptional regulatory sequence, or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
   or equivalent, to an individual or a patient in need thereof results in a paracrine protein
20 being released into the bloodstream or general circulation, or an increased or sustained
   expression of the paracrine protein in the cell,
           wherein optionally the release or increased or sustained expression of the
   paracrine protein is dependent on activation of an inducible promoter, or de-repression of
   a repressor, operably linked to the paracrine polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid, gene,
25 transcript or message; or
           (f) the method of any of (a) to (e), wherein the disease, infection or condition
   responsive to an increased paracrine polypeptide level in vivo is a cardiac contractile
   dysfunction; a congestive heart failure (CHF); a cardiac fibrosis; a cardiac myocyte
   disease, dysfunction or apoptosis; a pulmonary hypertension; a heart, skin, liver, lung,
30 muscle, nerve, brain or kidney disease, cancer or dysfunction; a cancer or a neoplasia; or,
   a hemophilia or a Hemophilia B.
           In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention:
                                                       3

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            (a) the paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively linked to the
   transcriptional regulatory sequence; or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
   or equivalent, is administered or delivered to the individual or a patient in need thereof,
   by oral, intramuscular (IM) injection, by intravenous (IV) injection, by subcutaneous (SC)
 5 or intradermal injection, by intrathecal injection, by intra-arterial (IA) injection, by
   intracoronary injection, by inhalation, or by a biolistic particle delivery system, or by
   using a "gene gun", air pistol or a HELIOSTM gene gun (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Hercules,
   CA); or
            (b) the paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively linked to the
10 transcriptional regulatory sequence; or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
   or equivalent, is administered or delivered to the individual or a patient in need thereof,
   by introduction into any tissue or fluid space within the body that is adjacent to or is
   drained by the bloodstream, such that the encoded protein may be secreted from cells in
   the tissue and released into the bloodstream.
15         In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine polypeptide
   or peptide is or comprises: a mammalian cardiotonic peptide, a growth factor, a Serelaxin,
   a Relaxin-2, a Urocortin-2 (UCn-2), a Urocortin-1 (UCn-1), a Urocortin-3 (UCn-3), a
   Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like
   Growth Factor-1, or any combination thereof; or, a human cardiotonic peptide, a human
20 growth factor, a Serelaxin, a Relaxin-2, a Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-3, a
   Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like
   Growth Factor-11, or any combination thereof.
           In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine polypeptide
   is a Urocortin, a Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-3, a Relaxin-2 or a Brain
25 Natriuretic Peptide and the disease or condition is a congestive heart failure (CHF); or the
   paracrine polypeptide is Prostacyclin Synthase and the disease or condition a pulmonary
   hypertension and the disease or condition is a congestive heart failure (CHF); or the
   paracrine polypeptide is Prostacyclin Synthase and the disease or condition a pulmonary
   hypertension.
30         In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention:
            (a) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   induces expression of the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or induces or
                                                        4

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   activates a promoter (e.g., operably linked to the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or
   gene) that induces expression of the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene;
           (b) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   induces synthesis of an activator of a promoter, optionally a paracrine-expressing nucleic
 5 acid or gene-specific promoter (e.g., operably linked to the paracrine-expressing nucleic
   acid or gene);
           (c) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   induces synthesis of a natural or a synthetic activator of the paracrine-expressing nucleic
   acid or gene or the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene-specific promoter,
10         wherein optionally the natural activator is an endogenous transcription factor;
           (d) the method of (c), wherein the synthetic activator is a zinc-finger DNA binding
   protein designed to specifically and selectively turn on an endogenous or exogenous
   target gene, wherein optionally the endogenous target is a gene paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or an activator of a paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or an
15 activator of a promoter operatively linked to a paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene;
           (e) the method of any of (a) to (c), wherein the stimulus or signal comprises a
   biologic, a light, a chemical or a pharmaceutical stimulus or signal;
           (f) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   stimulates or induces expression of a post-transcriptional activator of a paracrine
20 expressing nucleic acid or gene, or an activator of a promoter operatively linked to a
   paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or
           (g) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   inhibits or induces inhibition of a transcriptional repressor or a post-transcriptional
   repressor of a paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene.
25         In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the chemical or
   pharmaceutical that induces expression of the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene,
   or induces expression of the regulated or inducible promoter operatively linked to the
   paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, is an oral antibiotic, a doxycycline or a
   rapamycin; or a tet-regulation system using doxycycline is used to induce expression of
30 the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or an equivalent thereof.
                                                       5

 WO 2013/123094                                                                 PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, is
   formulated in a liquid, a gel, a hydrogel, a powder or an aqueous formulation.
            In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine-expressing
 5 nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, or
   the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, is formulated in a vesicle, liposome,
   nanoparticle or nanolipid particle (NLP) or equivalents, or formulated for delivery using a
   vesicle, liposome, nanoparticle or nanolipid particle (NLP) or equivalents.
            In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine-expressing
10 nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, is
   formulated in, or inserted or transfected into, an isolated or cultured cell, and optionally
   the cell is a mammalian cell, a cardiac cell, or a human cell, a non-human primate cell, a
   monkey cell, a mouse cell, a rat cell, a guinea pig cell, a rabbit cell, a hamster cell, a goat
   cell, a bovine cell, an equine cell, an ovine cell, a canine cell or a feline cell.
15          In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, or
   the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, is formulated as a pharmaceutical or a
   sterile formulation.
            In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine-expressing
20 nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, or
   the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, is formulated or delivered with, on, or in
   conjunction with a product of manufacture, an artificial organ or an implant.
            In alternative embodiments of methods of the invention: the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent
25 expresses a paracrine polypeptide in vitro or ex vivo.
            In alternative embodiments the invention provides methods for treating,
   ameliorating or protecting (preventing) an individual or a patient against a paracrine
   responsive pathology, infection, disease, illness, or condition, comprising practicing a
   method of the invention.
30          In alternative embodiments the invention provides methods for treating,
   ameliorating or protecting (preventing) a cardiac contractile dysfunction; a congestive
   heart failure (CHF); a cardiac fibrosis; a cardiac myocyte disease, dysfunction or
                                                       6

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   apoptosis; a pulmonary hypertension; a heart, skin, liver, lung, muscle, nerve, brain or
   kidney disease, cancer or dysfunction; a cancer or a neoplasia; or, a hemophilia or a
   Hemophilia B, comprising practicing a method of the invention.
           In alternative embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating,
 5 ameliorating or protecting (preventing) diabetes or pre-diabetes in a patient or an
   individual comprising:
            (a) practicing a method of the invention, wherein the paracrine polypeptide or
   peptide comprises or consists of a urocortin-2 (UCn-2); and
            (b) administering a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, or a nucleic acid,
10 gene, message or transcript encoding a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) to an individual or patient in
   need thereof,
           wherein optionally the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide is an isolated, a
   recombinant, a synthetic and/or a peptidomimetic peptide or polypeptide or variant
   thereof,
15         thereby treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the diabetes or pre
   diabetes in the patient or individual.
           In alternative embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating,
   ameliorating or protecting (preventing) obesity in a patient or an individual comprising:
            (a) practicing a method of the invention, wherein the paracrine polypeptide or
20 peptide comprises or consists of a urocortin-2 (UCn-2); and
            (b) administering a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, or a nucleic acid,
   gene, message or transcript encoding a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) to an individual or patient in
   need thereof,
           wherein optionally the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide is an isolated, a
25 recombinant, a synthetic and/or a peptidomimetic peptide or polypeptide or variant
   thereof,
           thereby treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the obesity in the patient
   or individual.
           In alternative embodiments, the invention provides methods of suppressing weight
30 gain, or suppressing the appetite, or stimulating or initiating weight loss, in a patient or an
   individual comprising:
                                                      7

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            (a) practicing a method of the invention, wherein the paracrine polypeptide or
   peptide comprises or consists of a urocortin-2 (UCn-2); and
            (b) administering a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, or a nucleic acid,
   gene, message or transcript encoding a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) to an individual or patient in
 5 need thereof,
            wherein optionally the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide is an isolated, a
   recombinant, a synthetic and/or a peptidomimetic peptide or polypeptide or variant
   thereof,
            thereby suppressing weight gain, or suppressing the appetite, or stimulating or
10 initiating weight loss, in the patient or individual.
            In alternative embodiments, the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide is
   formulated in or as a vesicle, liposome, nanoparticle or nanolipid particle (NLP), or is
   formulated for: oral administration, intramuscular (IM) injection, intravenous (IV)
   injection, subcutaneous (SC) or intradermal injection, intrathecal injection, intra-arterial
15 (IA) injection, intracoronary injection, inhalation, or administration by aerosol.
            The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
   accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and
   advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from
20 the claims.
            All publications, patents, patent applications cited herein are hereby expressly
   incorporated by reference for all purposes.
                                  DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
25          Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary construct of the invention comprising AAV5
   encoding IGF 1, as described in Example 2, below.
            Figure 2A and Figure 2B illustrate data from studies where cultured neonatal rat
   cardiac myocytes were infected with the exemplary AAV5.IGFI.tet construct of the
   invention, and IGFI was induced, expressed, and then measured, as described in Example
30 2, below.
                                                       8

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            Figure 3 graphically illustrates regulated expression of IGFI mRNA expression in
   cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes after gene transfer with the exemplary
   AAV5.IGFI-tet adding, and them removing, doxicillin, as described in Example 2, below.
            Figure 4A illustrates photomicrographs showing EGFP expression in unilateral
 5 tibialis anterior muscle 3 weeks after AAV5.EGFP gene transfer in rats; and Figure 4B is
   Table 4, which summarizes data from the echocardiography measuring the effects of
   Skeletal Muscle IGFI Expression in CHF, as described in Example 2, below.
            Figure 5 illustrates the experimental protocol for gene transfer of the exemplary
   AAV5.IGFI.tet of the invention in skeletal muscle in CHF, as described in Example 2,
10 below.
            Figure 6 illustrates the effects of AAV5.IGFI-tet gene transfer on cardiac
   apoptosis and fibrosis: Figure 6A graphically illustrates data from TUNEL staining that
   indicated that activation of IGFI expression (IGF-On) was associated with reduced
   cardiac myocyte apoptosis; Figure 6B illustrates picrosirius red-stained sections of the
15 uninfarcted intraventricular septum from IGF-Off and IGF-On rats that showed reduced
   cardiac fibrosis, and collagen fractional area was reduced; and Figure 6C graphically
   illustrates this data from the IGF-Off and IGF-On rats, as described in Example 2, below.
            Figure 7 graphically illustrates that intravenous gave better results than
   intramuscular administration in increasing serum levels of IGFI when an exemplary when
20 AAV5 construct of the invention was administered: intravenous delivery in mice,
   intramuscular delivery in rats, as described in Example 2, below.
            Figure 8 graphically, and by image, illustrates data showing the relative efficacy
   of intravenous delivery of exemplary AAV5 and AAV9 constructs of the invention using
   copy number and transgene expression in liver and heart as endpoints, as described in
25 Example 2, below.
            Figure 9 illustrates an exemplary protocol for determining and testing the most
   appropriate vector to use for a desired or a particular indication when practicing a method
   of the invention, as discussed in Example 2, below.
            Figure 10A, 1OB, 10C, 1OD, 10E, and 1OF illustrate exemplary vector constructs
30 of the invention, as described in Example 2, below.
                                                        9

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            Figure 11 graphically illustrates data showing that IV AAV8 is the optimal vector
   and delivery route to attain sustained increased levels of serum urocortin-2 (UCn-2) for a
   paracrine approach, as described in Example 3, below.
            Fig 12A graphically illustrates a time course of UCn2 mRNA expression in liver
 5 after IV administration of the exemplary AAV8.CBA.UCn2 construct; and Fig 12B
   graphically illustrates data showing UCn2 mRNA expression in LV 6 weeks after
   AAV8.CBA.UCn2 IV administration, as described in Example 3, below.
            Figure 13 graphically illustrates data from a study to determine if UCn2 gene
   transfer increased LV function by delivery of the exemplary AAV8.UCn2 construct of the
10 invention by intravenous (IV) delivery in normal mice: Fig 13A graphically illustrates
   data showing UCn2 gene transfer increased LV contractile function; Fig 13B graphically
   illustrates data showing -dP/dt also was reduced, indicating enhanced LV relaxation, as
   described in Example 3, below.
            Figure 14 illustrates data showing the effects of UCn2 transfer on the failing heart:
15 Fig. 14A illustrates the study protocol; and Figures 14B and 14C illustrate data showing
   the effects of UCn2 transfer on the failing heart, as described in Example 3, below.
            Figure 15 illustrates data, Fig. 15A by graph, Fig. 15B by immunoblot, where
   normal mice received IV delivery of the exemplary AAV8.CBA.UCn2; and four weeks
   later, LV samples from the UCn2 gene transfer group showed a 2-fold increase in
20 SERCA2a protein expression, as described in Example 3, below.
            Figure 16 shows data of Cat ransients following UCn2 gene transfer: Fig. 16A
   graphically illustrates that UCn2 gene transfer increased the rate of Ca2 + decline; Fig. 16B
   graphically illustrates that time-to-Ca    transient decay was shortened in cardiac
   myocytes from mice that had received UCN2 gene transfer 4w prior, as described in
25 Example 3, below.
            Figure 17 shows data that UCn2 protects cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes
   from hypoxic injury: Fig. 17A illustrates that UCn2 preserves morphological normality
   24 hr after NaN3 treatment; Fig. 17B graphically illustrates that UCn2 reduced LDH
   release after NaN3 treatment, as described in Example 3, below.
30          Figure 18 graphically illustrates that phosphorylation of both CREB (Fig. 18A)
   and 0-catenin (Fig. 18B) was detected in LV samples 4w after IV delivery of the
                                                       10

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   exemplary UCn2.CBA.UCn2 construct of the invention, as described in Example 3,
   below.
           Figure 19 illustrates data showing UCn2 affects glucose regulation: Mice received
   IV delivery of the exemplary AAV8.CBA.UCn2: Fig. 19A illustrates that a small
 5 reduction in fasting blood glucose was seen in the UCn2 group: Fig. 19B illustrates
   results indicating that UCn2 gene transfer promotes glucose utilization and protects
   against diet-induced hyperglycemia, as described in Example 3, below.
           Figure 20A, 20B, 20C, 20D, 20E, and 20F illustrate exemplary constructs of the
   invention, as described in Example 3, below.
10         Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           The invention provides compositions and in vivo and ex vivo methods comprising
   administration of paracrine-encoding nucleic acids, genes, transcripts or messages to
15 treat, ameliorate or protect (as a prophylaxis) individuals against diseases, infections or
   conditions responsive to increased paracrine levels in vivo. In alternative embodiments,
   the invention provides compositions and methods for the in vivo or in situ delivery and/or
   in vivo expression of, and controlled expression of, any paracrine polypeptide or peptide,
   e.g., a mammalian cardiotonic peptide, a Serelaxin, a Relaxin-2, a Urocortin-2, a
20 Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-3, a Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a
   Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like Growth Factor-1, or any combination thereof; or, a
   human cardiotonic peptide, a Serelaxin, a Relaxin-2, a Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-1, a
   Urocortin-3, a Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a Growth Hormone, an
   Insulin-like Growth Factor-1, or any combination thereof
25         In alternative embodiments, the invention provides compositions and methods for
   the delivery and controlled expression of a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene, or an
   expression vehicle (e.g., vector, recombinant virus, and the like) comprising (having
   contained therein) a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene, that results in a paracrine
   protein being released into the bloodstream or general circulation where it can have a
30 beneficial effect on in the body, e.g., such as the heart in the case of treating
   cardiovascular disease, or the lungs or kidneys, or other targets.
                                                      11

 WO 2013/123094                                                                                  PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                                         PATENT
                                                                                 0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            In alternative embodiments, the invention provides expression vehicles, vectors,
   recombinant viruses and the like for in vivo expression of a paracrine-encoding nucleic
   acid or gene to practice the methods of this invention. In alternative embodiments, the
   expression vehicles, vectors, recombinant viruses and the like expressing the paracrine
 5 encoding nucleic acid or gene can be delivered by intramuscular (IM) injection, by
   intravenous (IV) injection, by subcutaneous injection, by inhalation, by a biolistic particle
   delivery system (e.g., a so-called "gene gun"), and the like, e.g., as an outpatient, e.g.,
   during an office visit.
            In alternative embodiments, this "peripheral" mode of delivery, e.g., expression
10 vehicles, vectors, recombinant viruses and the like injected IM or IV, can circumvent
   problems encountered when genes or nucleic acids are expressed directly in an organ
   (e.g., the heart, lung or kidney) itself. Sustained secretion of a desired paracrine
   protein(s) in the bloodstream or general circulation also circumvents the difficulties and
   expense of administering proteins by infusion, which can be particularly problematic for
15 many proteins which exhibit very short half lives in the body, as summarized in Table 1,
   below:
                                   Feature             IV Infusion       Gene Transfer
                          Requires Hospitalization       Most often               No
                          Indwelling Catheters             Often                  No
                          Infection Risk                    High                  No
20                       Thrombosis Risk                    High                  No
                          Expense                           High                  Low
                          Easeof Use                        Low                   High
                         "Mobility" of Therapy              Low                   High
                          Efficacy in CHF                   Yes               Untested
                          Dosage Regulation                Tight         via Reg Expression
                          "Mobility"referstoeaseof using whenaway from home   (traveling, etc);
                         Reg,Regulated (thepatient takes anoral agent ina dosethat provides  the
                         desired leveloftransgene expression)
25
            In alternative embodiments, the invention provides methods for being able to turn
   on and turn off paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene expression easily and efficiently
   for tailored treatments and insurance of optimal safety.
            In alternative embodiments, the paracrine protein or proteins expressed by the
30 paracrine-expressing nucleic acid(s) or gene(s) have a beneficial or favorable effects (e.g.,
   therapeutic or prophylactic) on a tissue or an organ, e.g., the heart, blood vessels, lungs,
                                                                         12

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                          PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   kidneys, or other targets, even though secreted into the blood or general circulation at a
   distance (e.g., anatomically remote) from their site or sites of action.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, a paracrine-expressing nucleic acid
   or gene encoding Urocortin-2 is used, but other paracrine-expressing nucleic acids or
 5 genes can be used to practice methods of this invention, including but not limited to, e.g.,
   for treating congestive heart failure (CHF) or pulmonary hypertension: Urocortin-1 and
   Urocortin-3, Brain Natriuretic Peptide (for CHF), Prostacyclin Synthase (for pulmonary
   hypertension), Growth Hormone, and/or Insulin-like Growth Factor-1, or any
   combination thereof.
10          In alternative embodiments the invention provides applications, and compositions
   and methods, for a regulated expression system providing for controlled expression of a
   paracrine-type gene to treat a heart or lung disease, e.g., congestive heart failure (CHF) or
   pulmonary hypertension.
            For example, in alternative embodiments a recombinant virus (e.g., a long-term
15 virus or viral vector), or a vector, or an expression vector, and the like, can be injected,
   e.g., in a systemic vein (e.g., IV), or by intramuscular (IM) injection, by inhalation, or by
   a biolistic particle delivery system (e.g., a so-called "gene gun"), e.g., as an outpatient,
   e.g., in a physician's office. In alternative embodiments, days or weeks later (e.g., four
   weeks later), the individual, patient or subject is administered (e.g., inhales, is injected or
20 swallows), a chemical or pharmaceutical that induces expression of the paracrine
   expressing nucleic acids or genes; for example, an oral antibiotic (e.g., doxycycline or
   rapamycin) is administered once daily (or more or less often), which will activate the
   expression of the gene. In alternative embodiments, after the "activation", or inducement
   of expression (e.g., by an inducible promoter) of the nucleic acid or gene, a paracrine
25 protein is synthesized and released into the subject's circulation (e.g., into the blood), and
   subsequently has favorable physiological effects, e.g., therapeutic or prophylactic, that
   benefit the individual or patient (e.g., benefit heart, kidney or lung function), depending
   on the paracrine protein or proteins expressed. When the physician or subject desires
   discontinuation of the treatment, the subject simply stops taking the activating chemical
30 or pharmaceutical, e.g., antibiotic.
            The inventors have used an AAV vector encoding Urocortin-2 and administered
   the vector to mice using intravenous delivery. The results showed: 1) a 17-fold increase
                                                       13

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   in serum levels of the transgene 4-6 weeks after intravenous delivery of the vector; 2)
   pronounced favorable effects on cardiac contractile function (systolic function); and 3)
   pronounced favorable effects on cardiac relaxation (diastolic function).
            In alternative embodiments, applications of the present invention include: the
 5 treatment of severe, low ejection fraction heart failure; the treatment of pulmonary
   hypertension; the treatment of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction; replacement
   of current therapies that require hospitalization and sustained intravenous infusions of
   vasoactive peptides for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension and heart failure; and,
   the treatment of other conditions in which controlled expression of a paracrine-type gene
10 can be used to promote favorable effects at a distance in the body.
   Generating and Manipulating Nucleic Acids
            In alternative embodiments, to practice the methods of the invention, the invention
   provides isolated, synthetic and/or recombinant nucleic acids or genes encoding paracrine
   polypeptides. In alternative embodiments, to practice the methods of the invention, the
15 invention provides paracrine-expressing nucleic acids or genes in recombinant form in an
   (e.g., spliced into) an expression vehicle for in vivo expression, e.g., in a vector or a
   recombinant virus. In other alternative embodiments, the invention provides, e.g.,
   isolated, synthetic and/or recombinant nucleic acids encoding inhibitory nucleic acids
   (e.g., siRNA, microRNA, antisense, ribozyme) that can inhibit the expression of genes or
20 messages (mRNAs) that inhibit the expression of the desired paracrine gene.
            In alternative embodiments, nucleic acids of the invention are made, isolated
   and/or manipulated by, e.g., cloning and expression of cDNA libraries, amplification of
   message or genomic DNA by PCR, and the like. The nucleic acids and genes used to
   practice this invention, including DNA, RNA, iRNA, antisense nucleic acid, cDNA,
25 genomic DNA, vectors, viruses or hybrids thereof, can be isolated from a variety of
   sources, genetically engineered, amplified, and/or expressed/ generated recombinantly.
   Recombinant polypeptides (e.g., paracrine chimeric proteins used to practice this
   invention) generated from these nucleic acids can be individually isolated or cloned and
   tested for a desired activity. Any recombinant expression system or gene therapy delivery
30 vehicle can be used, including e.g., viral (e.g., AAV constructs or hybrids) bacterial,
   fungal, mammalian, yeast, insect or plant cell expression systems or expression vehicles.
                                                      14

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            Alternatively, nucleic acids used to practice this invention can be synthesized in
   vitro by well-known chemical synthesis techniques, as described in, e.g., Adams (1983) J.
   Am. Chem. Soc. 105:661; Belousov (1997) Nucleic Acids Res. 25:3440-3444; Frenkel
   (1995) Free Radic. Biol. Med. 19:373-380; Blommers (1994) Biochemistry 33:7886
 5 7896; Narang (1979) Meth. Enzymol. 68:90; Brown (1979) Meth. Enzymol. 68:109;
   Beaucage (1981) Tetra. Lett. 22:1859; U.S. Patent No. 4,458,066.
            Techniques for the manipulation of nucleic acids used to practice this invention,
   such as, e.g., subcloning, labeling probes (e.g., random-primer labeling using Klenow
   polymerase, nick translation, amplification), sequencing, hybridization and the like are
10 well described in the scientific and patent literature, see, e.g., Sambrook, ed.,
   MOLECULAR CLONING: A LABORATORY MANUAL (2ND ED.), Vols. 1-3, Cold
   Spring Harbor Laboratory, (1989); CURRENT PROTOCOLS IN MOLECULAR
   BIOLOGY, Ausubel, ed. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York (1997); LABORATORY
   TECHNIQUES IN BIOCHEMISTRY AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY:
15 HYBRIDIZATION WITH NUCLEIC ACID PROBES, Part I. Theory and Nucleic Acid
   Preparation, Tijssen, ed. Elsevier, N.Y. (1993).
            Another useful means of obtaining and manipulating nucleic acids used to practice
   the methods of the invention is to clone from genomic samples, and, if desired, screen and
   re-clone inserts isolated or amplified from, e.g., genomic clones or cDNA clones.
20 Sources of nucleic acid used in the methods of the invention include genomic or cDNA
   libraries contained in, e.g., mammalian artificial chromosomes (MACs), see, e.g., U.S.
   Patent Nos. 5,721,118; 6,025,155; human artificial chromosomes, see, e.g., Rosenfeld
   (1997) Nat. Genet. 15:333-335; yeast artificial chromosomes (YAC); bacterial artificial
   chromosomes (BAC); P1 artificial chromosomes, see, e.g., Woon (1998) Genomics
25 50:306-316; P1-derived vectors (PACs), see, e.g., Kern (1997) Biotechniques 23:120
    124; cosmids, recombinant viruses, phages or plasmids.
            In alternative embodiments, to practice the methods of the invention, paracrine
   fusion proteins and nucleic acids encoding them are used. Any paracrine polypeptide can
   be used to practice this invention, e.g., a Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-3, a
30 Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like
   Growth Factor-I protein. In alternative embodiments, the paracrine protein can be fused
                                                      15

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   to a heterologous peptide or polypeptide, such as a peptide for targeting the polypeptide
   to a desired cell type, such a cardiac myocytes, or a lung cell.
            In alternative embodiments, a heterologous peptide or polypeptide joined or fused
   to a protein used to practice this invention can be an N-terminal identification peptide
 5 which imparts a desired characteristic, such as fluorescent detection, increased stability
   and/or simplified purification. Peptides and polypeptides used to practice this invention
   can also be synthesized and expressed as fusion proteins with one or more additional
   domains linked thereto for, e.g., producing a more immunogenic peptide, to more readily
   isolate a recombinantly synthesized peptide, to identify and isolate antibodies and
10 antibody-expressing B cells, and the like. Detection and purification facilitating domains
   include, e.g., metal chelating peptides such as polyhistidine tracts and histidine
   tryptophan modules that allow purification on immobilized metals, protein A domains
   that allow purification on immobilized immunoglobulin, and the domain utilized in the
   FLAGS extension/affinity purification system (Immunex Corp, Seattle WA). The
15 inclusion of a cleavable linker sequences such as Factor Xa or enterokinase (Invitrogen,
   San Diego CA) between a purification domain and the motif-comprising peptide or
   polypeptide to facilitate purification. For example, an expression vector can include an
   epitope-encoding nucleic acid sequence linked to six histidine residues followed by a
   thioredoxin and an enterokinase cleavage site (see e.g., Williams (1995) Biochemistry
20 34:1787-1797; Dobeli (1998) Protein Expr. Purif. 12:404-414). The histidine residues
   facilitate detection and purification while the enterokinase cleavage site provides a means
   for purifying the epitope from the remainder of the fusion protein. Technology pertaining
   to vectors encoding fusion proteins and application of fusion proteins are well described
   in the scientific and patent literature, see e.g., Kroll (1993) DNA Cell. Biol., 12:441-53.
25          Nucleic acids or nucleic acid sequences used to practice this invention can be an
   oligonucleotide, nucleotide, polynucleotide, or to a fragment of any of these, to DNA or
   RNA of genomic or synthetic origin which may be single-stranded or double-stranded
   and may represent a sense or antisense strand, to peptide nucleic acid (PNA), or to any
   DNA-like or RNA-like material, natural or synthetic in origin. Compounds use to
30 practice this invention include "nucleic acids" or "nucleic acid sequences" including
   oligonucleotide, nucleotide, polynucleotide, or any fragment of any of these; and include
   DNA or RNA (e.g., mRNA, rRNA, tRNA, iRNA) of genomic or synthetic origin which
                                                       16

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   may be single-stranded or double-stranded; and can be a sense or antisense strand, or a
   peptide nucleic acid (PNA), or any DNA-like or RNA-like material, natural or synthetic
   in origin, including, e.g., iRNA, ribonucleoproteins (e.g., e.g., double stranded iRNAs,
   e.g., iRNPs). Compounds use to practice this invention include nucleic acids, i.e.,
 5 oligonucleotides, containing known analogues of natural nucleotides. Compounds use to
   practice this invention include nucleic-acid-like structures with synthetic backbones, see
   e.g., Mata (1997) Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 144:189-197; Strauss-Soukup (1997)
   Biochemistry 36:8692-8698; Samstag (1996) Antisense Nucleic Acid Drug Dev 6:153
    156. Compounds use to practice this invention include "oligonucleotides" including a
10 single stranded polydeoxynucleotide or two complementary polydeoxynucleotide strands
   that may be chemically synthesized. Compounds use to practice this invention include
   synthetic oligonucleotides having no 5' phosphate, and thus will not ligate to another
   oligonucleotide without adding a phosphate with an ATP in the presence of a kinase. A
   synthetic oligonucleotide can ligate to a fragment that has not been dephosphorylated.
15         In alternative aspects, compounds used to practice this invention include genes or
   any segment of DNA involved in producing a paracrine polypeptide (e.g., a Urocortin-1,
   a Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-3, a Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a
   Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like Growth Factor-I protein); it can include regions
   preceding and following the coding region (leader and trailer) as well as, where
20 applicable, intervening sequences (introns) between individual coding segments (exons).
   "Operably linked" can refer to a functional relationship between two or more nucleic acid
   (e.g., DNA) segments. In alternative aspects, it can refer to the functional relationship of
   transcriptional regulatory sequence to a transcribed sequence. For example, a promoter
   can be operably linked to a coding sequence, such as a nucleic acid used to practice this
25 invention, if it stimulates or modulates the transcription of the coding sequence in an
   appropriate host cell or other expression system. In alternative aspects, promoter
   transcriptional regulatory sequences can be operably linked to a transcribed sequence
   where they can be physically contiguous to the transcribed sequence, i.e., they can be cis
   acting. In alternative aspects, transcriptional regulatory sequences, such as enhancers,
30 need not be physically contiguous or located in close proximity to the coding sequences
   whose transcription they enhance.
                                                      17

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
           In alternative aspects, the invention comprises use of "expression cassettes"
   comprising a nucleotide sequences used to practice this invention, which can be capable
   of affecting expression of the nucleic acid, e.g., a structural gene or a transcript (e.g.,
   encoding a paracrine protein) in a host compatible with such sequences. Expression
 5 cassettes can include at least a promoter operably linked with the polypeptide coding
   sequence or inhibitory sequence; and, in one aspect, with other sequences, e.g.,
   transcription termination signals. Additional factors necessary or helpful in effecting
   expression may also be used, e.g., enhancers.
           In alternative aspects, expression cassettes used to practice this invention also
10 include plasmids, expression vectors, recombinant viruses, any form of recombinant
   "naked DNA" vector, and the like. In alternative aspects, a "vector" used to practice this
   invention can comprise a nucleic acid that can infect, transfect, transiently or permanently
   transduce a cell. In alternative aspects, a vector used to practice this invention can be a
   naked nucleic acid, or a nucleic acid complexed with protein or lipid. In alternative
15 aspects, vectors used to practice this invention can comprise viral or bacterial nucleic
   acids and/or proteins, and/or membranes (e.g., a cell membrane, a viral lipid envelope,
   etc.). In alternative aspects, vectors used to practice this invention can include, but are
   not limited to replicons (e.g., RNA replicons, bacteriophages) to which fragments of
   DNA may be attached and become replicated. Vectors thus include, but are not limited to
20 RNA, autonomous self-replicating circular or linear DNA or RNA (e.g., plasmids,
   viruses, and the like, see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,217,879), and can include both the
   expression and non-expression plasmids. In alternative aspects, the vector used to
   practice this invention can be stably replicated by the cells during mitosis as an
   autonomous structure, or can be incorporated within the host's genome.
25         In alternative aspects, "promoters" used to practice this invention include all
   sequences capable of driving transcription of a coding sequence in a cell, e.g., a
   mammalian cell such as a heart, lung, muscle, nerve or brain cell. Thus, promoters used
   in the constructs of the invention include cis-acting transcriptional control elements and
   regulatory sequences that are involved in regulating or modulating the timing and/or rate
30 of transcription of a gene. For example, a promoter used to practice this invention can be
   a cis-acting transcriptional control element, including an enhancer, a promoter, a
   transcription terminator, an origin of replication, a chromosomal integration sequence, 5'
                                                      18

 WO 2013/123094                                                                  PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                            PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   and 3' untranslated regions, or an intronic sequence, which are involved in transcriptional
   regulation. These cis-acting sequences typically interact with proteins or other
   biomolecules to carry out (turn on/off, regulate, modulate, etc.) transcription.
            In alternative embodiments, "constitutive" promoters used to practice this
 5 invention can be those that drive expression continuously under most environmental
   conditions and states of development or cell differentiation. In alternative embodiments,
   "Inducible" or "regulatable" promoters used to practice this invention can direct
   expression of the nucleic acid of the invention under the influence of environmental
   conditions, administered chemical agents, or developmental conditions.
10 Gene Therapy and Gene Delivery Vehicles
            In alternative embodiments, methods of the invention comprise use of nucleic acid
   (e.g., gene or polypeptide encoding nucleic acid) delivery systems to deliver a payload of
   a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene, or a paracrine polypeptide-expressing nucleic
   acid, transcript or message, to a cell or cells in vitro, ex vivo, or in vivo, e.g., as gene
15 therapy delivery vehicles.
            In alternative embodiments, expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or
   equivalents used to practice methods of the invention are or comprise: an adeno
   associated virus (AAV), a lentiviral vector or an adenovirus vector; an AAV serotype
   AAV5, AAV6, AAV8 or AAV9; a rhesus-derived AAV, or the rhesus-derived AAV
20 AAVrh. 1OhCLN2; an organ-tropic AAV, or a cardiotropic AAV, or a cardiotropic
   AAVM41 mutant; and/or an AAV capsid mutant or AAV hybrid serotype. In alternative
   embodiments, the AAV is engineered to increase efficiency in targeting a specific cell
   type that is non-permissive to a wild type (wt) AAV and/or to improve efficacy in
   infecting only a cell type of interest. In alternative embodiments, the hybrid AAV is
25 retargeted or engineered as a hybrid serotype by one or more modifications comprising:
   1) a transcapsidation, 2) adsorption of a bi-specific antibody to a capsid surface, 3)
   engineering a mosaic capsid, and/or 4) engineering a chimeric capsid. It is well known in
   the art how to engineer an adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsid in order to increase
   efficiency in targeting specific cell types that are non-permissive to wild type (wt) viruses
30 and to improve efficacy in infecting only the cell type of interest; see e.g., Wu et al., Mol.
   Ther. 2006 Sep;14(3):316-27. Epub 2006 Jul 7; Choi, et al., Curr. Gene Ther. 2005
   Jun;5(3):299-310.
                                                       19

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
             For example, the rhesus-derived AAV AAVrh. 1OhCLN2 or equivalents thereof
   can be used, wherein the rhesus-derived AAV may not be inhibited by any pre-existing
   immunity in a human; see e.g., Sondhi, et al., Hum Gene Ther. Methods. 2012
   Oct;23(5):324-35, Epub 2012 Nov 6; Sondhi, et al., Hum Gene Ther. Methods. 2012 Oct
 5 17; teaching that direct administration of AAVrh. 10hCLN2 to the CNS of rats and non
   human primates at doses scalable to humans has an acceptable safety profile and mediates
   significant payload expression in the CNS.
             Also, for example, AAV vectors specifically designed for cardiac gene transfer (a
   cardiotropic AAV) can be used, e.g., the AAVM41 mutant having improved transduction
10 efficiency and specificity in the myocardium, see, e.g., Yang, et al. Virol J. 2013 Feb
   11;10(1):50.
             Because adeno-associated viruses (AAVs) are common infective agents of
   primates, and as such, healthy primates carry a large pool of AAV-specific neutralizing
   antibodies (NAbs) which inhibit AAV-mediated gene transfer therapeutic strategies, the
15 methods of the invention comprise screening of patient candidates for AAV-specific
   NAbs prior to treatment, especially with the frequently used AAV8 capsid component, to
   facilitate individualized treatment design and enhance therapeutic efficacy; see, e.g., Sun,
   et al., J. Immunol. Methods. 2013 Jan 31;387(1-2):114-20, Epub 2012 Oct 11.
   Kits and Instructions
20           The invention provides kits comprising compositions and methods of the
   invention, including instructions for use thereof. As such, kits, cells, expression vehicles
   (e.g., recombinant viruses, vectors) and the like can also be provided.
             For example, in alternative embodiments, the invention provides kits comprising
   compositions used to practice this invention, e.g., comprising a urocortin-2 (UCn-2)
25 peptide or polypeptide; or a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid, (b) a liquid or aqueous
   formulation of the invention, or (c) the vesicle, liposome, nanoparticle or nanolipid
   particle of the invention. In one aspect, the kit further comprising instructions for
   practicing any methods of the invention, e.g., in vitro or ex vivo methods for increasing a
   desired paracrine level in the bloodstream, or for protecting a cell, e.g., a cardiac or lung
30 cell; or for treating, preventing or ameliorating diabetes or pre-diabetes, .
                                                      20

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                          PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   Formulations
            In alternative embodiments, the invention provides compositions and methods for
   use in increasing paracrine levels in vivo. In alternative embodiments, these compositions
   comprise paracrine-encoding nucleic acids formulated for these purposes, e.g., expression
 5 vehicles or paracrine-encoding nucleic acids formulated in a buffer, in a saline solution,
   in a powder, an emulsion, in a vesicle, in a liposome, in a nanoparticle, in a
   nanolipoparticle and the like.
            In alternative embodiments, the invention provides methods comprising
   administration of urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, or UCn-2-encoding
10 nucleic acids, to treat, ameliorate or prevent a diabetes (including Type 1 and Type 2, or
   adult onset diabetes) or pre-diabetes, or obesity or excess weight; or to stimulate weight
   loss, or to act as an appetite suppressant. Accordingly, the invention provides the
   appropriate formulations and dosages of urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, or
   UCn-2-encoding nucleic acids, for same.
15          In alternative embodiments, the compositions (including formulations of
   urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, or paracrine-encoding (e.g., UCn-2
   encoding) nucleic acids, can be formulated in any way and can be applied in a variety of
   concentrations and forms depending on the desired in vitro, in vivo or ex vivo conditions,
   including a desired in vivo or ex vivo method of administration and the like. Details on
20 techniques for in vitro, in vivo or ex vivo formulations and administrations are well
   described in the scientific and patent literature.
            Formulations and/or carriers of the paracrine-encoding nucleic acids, or urocortin
   2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, used to practice this invention are well known in the
   art. Formulations and/or carriers used to practice this invention can be in forms such as
25 tablets, pills, powders, capsules, liquids, gels, syrups, slurries, suspensions, etc., suitable
   for in vivo or ex vivo applications.
            In alternative embodiments, paracrine-encoding nucleic acids, or urocortin-2
   (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, used to practice this invention can be in admixture with
   an aqueous and/or buffer solution or as an aqueous and/or buffered suspension, e.g.,
30 including a suspending agent, such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose,
   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium alginate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gum tragacanth
   and gum acacia, and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring
                                                       21

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   phosphatide (e.g., lecithin), a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid
   (e.g., polyoxyethylene stearate), a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long
   chain aliphatic alcohol (e.g., heptadecaethylene oxycetanol), a condensation product of
   ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol (e.g.,
 5 polyoxyethylene sorbitol mono-oleate), or a condensation product of ethylene oxide with
   a partial ester derived from fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride (e.g., polyoxyethylene
   sorbitan mono-oleate). The aqueous suspension can also contain one or more
   preservatives such as ethyl or n-propyl p-hydroxybenzoate. Formulations can be adjusted
   for osmolarity, e.g., by use of an appropriate buffer.
10         In practicing this invention, the compounds (e.g., formulations) of the invention
   can comprise a solution of paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes, or urocortin-2
   (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, e.g.,
   acceptable vehicles and solvents that can be employed include water and Ringer's
   solution, an isotonic sodium chloride. In addition, sterile fixed oils can be employed as a
15 solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any fixed oil can be employed including
   synthetic mono- or diglycerides, or fatty acids such as oleic acid. In one embodiment,
   solutions and formulations used to practice the invention are sterile and can be
   manufactured to be generally free of undesirable matter. In one embodiment, these
   solutions and formulations are sterilized by conventional, well known sterilization
20 techniques.
           The solutions and formulations used to practice the invention can comprise
   auxiliary substances as required to approximate physiological conditions such as pH
   adjusting and buffering agents, toxicity adjusting agents, e.g., sodium acetate, sodium
   chloride, potassium chloride, calcium chloride, sodium lactate and the like. The
25 concentration of active agent (e.g., paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes) in these
   formulations can vary widely, and can be selected primarily based on fluid volumes,
   viscosities and the like, in accordance with the particular mode of in vivo or ex vivo
   administration selected and the desired results, e.g., increasing in vivo paracrine
   expression.
30         The solutions and formulations used to practice the invention can be lyophilized;
   for example, the invention provides a stable lyophilized formulation comprising
   paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or
                                                     22

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   polypeptides. In one aspect, this formulation is made by lyophilizing a solution
   comprising a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or
   polypeptides, and a bulking agent, e.g., mannitol, trehalose, raffinose, and sucrose or
   mixtures thereof. A process for preparing a stable lyophilized formulation can include
 5 lyophilizing a solution about 2.5 mg/mL protein, about 15 mg/mL sucrose, about 19
   mg/mL NaCl, and a sodium citrate buffer having a pH greater than 5.5 but less than 6.5.
   See, e.g., U.S. patent app. no. 20040028670.
            The compositions and formulations of the invention can be delivered by the use of
   liposomes (see also discussion, below). By using liposomes, particularly where the
10 liposome surface carries ligands specific for target cells, or are otherwise preferentially
   directed to a specific tissue or organ type, one can focus the delivery of the active agent
   into a target cells in an in vivo or ex vivo application.
   Nanoparticles, Nanolipoparticles and Liposomes
            The invention also provides nanoparticles, nanolipoparticles, vesicles and
15 liposomal membranes comprising compounds (e.g., paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or
   genes, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides) used to practice the methods of
   this invention, e.g., to deliver paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes, or urocortin-2
   (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, to an individual, a patient or mammalian cells in vivo
   or ex vivo. In alternative embodiments, these compositions are designed to target specific
20 molecules, including biologic molecules, such as polypeptides, including cell surface
   polypeptides, e.g., for targeting a desired cell type, e.g., a mammalian cardiac cell, a
   kidney cell, a lung cell, a nerve cell and the like.
            The invention provides multilayered liposomes comprising compounds used to
   practice this invention, e.g., as described in Park, et al., U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20070082042.
25 The multilayered liposomes can be prepared using a mixture of oil-phase components
   comprising squalane, sterols, ceramides, neutral lipids or oils, fatty acids and lecithins, to
   about 200 to 5000 nm in particle size, e.g., to entrap a paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or
   gene.
            Liposomes can be made using any method, e.g., as described in Park, et al., U.S.
30 Pat. Pub. No. 20070042031, including method of producing a liposome by encapsulating
   an active agent (e.g., paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2)
   peptides or polypeptides), the method comprising providing an aqueous solution in a first
                                                       23

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   reservoir; providing an organic lipid solution in a second reservoir, and then mixing the
   aqueous solution with the organic lipid solution in a first mixing region to produce a
   liposome solution, where the organic lipid solution mixes with the aqueous solution to
   substantially instantaneously produce a liposome encapsulating the active agent; and
 5 immediately then mixing the liposome solution with a buffer solution to produce a diluted
   liposome solution.
            In one embodiment, liposome compositions used to practice this invention
   comprise a substituted ammonium and/or polyanions, e.g., for targeting delivery of a
   compound (e.g., paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes) used to practice this invention
10 to a desired cell type, as described e.g., in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20070110798.
            The invention also provides nanoparticles comprising compounds (e.g., paracrine
   encoding nucleic acids or genes, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides) used to
   practice this invention in the form of active agent-containing nanoparticles (e.g., a
   secondary nanoparticle), as described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20070077286. In one
15 embodiment, the invention provides nanoparticles comprising a fat-soluble active agent
   of this invention or a fat-solubilized water-soluble active agent to act with a bivalent or
   trivalent metal salt.
            In one embodiment, solid lipid suspensions can be used to formulate and to
   deliver paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or
20 polypeptides, used to practice the invention to a patient, an individual, or mammalian cell
   in vivo or ex vivo, as described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20050136121.
   Delivery vehicles
            In alternative embodiments, any delivery vehicle can be used to practice the
   methods or compositions of this invention, e.g., to deliver paracrine-encoding nucleic
25 acids or genes, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, to practice the methods
   of the invention in vivo or ex vivo. For example, delivery vehicles comprising
   polycations, cationic polymers and/or cationic peptides, such as polyethyleneimine
   derivatives, can be used e.g. as described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20060083737.
            In one embodiment, a dried polypeptide-surfactant complex is used to formulate a
30 composition of the invention, wherein a surfactant is associated with a nucleic acid via a
   non-covalent bond e.g. as described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20040151766.
                                                      24

 WO 2013/123094                                                                 PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                            PATENT
                                                             0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            In one embodiment, a nucleic acid or polypeptide used to practice this invention
   can be applied to cells as polymeric hydrogels or water-soluble copolymers, e.g., as
   described in U.S. Patent No. 7,413,739; for example, a nucleic acid or protein can be
   polymerized through a reaction between a strong nucleophile and a conjugated
 5 unsaturated bond or a conjugated unsaturated group, by nucleophilic addition, wherein
   each precursor component comprises at least two strong nucleophiles or at least two
   conjugated unsaturated bonds or conjugated unsaturated groups.
            In one embodiment, a nucleic acid or protein is applied to cells using vehicles
   with cell membrane-permeant peptide conjugates, e.g., as described in U.S. Patent Nos.
10 7,306,783; 6,589,503. In one aspect, the nucleic acid itself is conjugated to a cell
   membrane-permeant peptide. In one embodiment, a nucleic acid, protein, and/or the
   delivery vehicle are conjugated to a transport-mediating peptide, e.g., as described in U.S.
   Patent No. 5,846,743, describing transport-mediating peptides that are highly basic and
   bind to poly-phosphoinositides.
15          In one embodiment, electro-permeabilization is used as a primary or adjunctive
   means to deliver a paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes to a cell, e.g., using any
   electroporation system as described e.g. in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,109,034; 6,261,815;
   5,874,268.
   Products of Manufacture, Implants and artificial organs
20          The invention also provides products of manufacture comprising cells of the
   invention (e.g., cells modified to express paracrine proteins, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2)
   peptides or polypeptides, to practice the methods of the invention), and use of cells made
   by methods of this invention, including for example implants and artificial organs,
   bioreactor systems, cell culture systems, plates, dishes, tubes, bottles and flasks
25 comprising cells modified to express paracrine proteins to practice the methods of the
   invention. Any implant, artificial organ, bioreactor systems, cell culture system, cell
   culture plate, dish (e.g., petri dish), cell culture tube and/or cell culture flask (e.g., a roller
   bottle) can be used to practice this invention.
            In alternative embodiments the invention provides a bioreactor, implant, stent,
30 artificial organ or similar device comprising cells modified to express paracrine proteins
   to practice the methods of the invention; for example, including implants as described in
   USPNs 7,388,042; 7,381,418; 7,379,765; 7,361,332; 7,351,423; 6,886,568; 5,270,192;
                                                         25

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   and U.S. Pat. App. Pub. Nos. 20040127987; 20080119909 (describing auricular
   implants); 20080118549 (describing ocular implants); 20080020015 (describing a
   bioactive wound dressing); 20070254005 (describing heart valve bio-prostheses, vascular
   grafts, meniscus implants); 20070059335; 20060128015 (describing liver implants).
 5 Implanting cells in vivo
           In alternative embodiments, the methods of the invention also comprise
   implanting or engrafting cells, e.g., cardiac, lung or kidney cells, comprising or
   expressing paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes, or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or
   polypeptides, used to practice the invention; and in one aspect, methods of the invention
10 comprise implanting or engrafting the paracrine-encoding nucleic acids or genes (or cells
   expressing them) , or urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptides or polypeptides, in a vessel, tissue or
   organ ex vivo or in vivo, or implanting or engrafting the re-programmed differentiated cell
   in an individual in need thereof.
            Cells can be removed from an individual, treated using the compositions and/or
15 methods of this invention, and reinserted (e.g., injected or engrafted) into a tissue, organ
   or into the individual, using any known technique or protocol. For example, de
   differentiated re-programmed cells, or re-programmed differentiated cells, can be re
   implanted (e.g., injected or engrafted) using microspheres e.g., as described in U.S. Pat.
   No. 7,442,389; e.g., in one aspect, the cell carrier comprises a bulking agent comprising
20 round and smooth polymethylmethacrylate microparticles preloaded within a mixing and
   delivery system and an autologous carrier comprising these cells. In another
   embodiment, the cells are readministered to a tissue, an organ and/or an individual in
   need thereof in a biocompatible crosslinked matrix, as described e.g., in U.S. Pat. App.
   Pub. No. 20050027070.
25         In another embodiment, the cells of the invention (e.g., cells made by practicing
   the methods of this invention) are readministered (e.g., injected or engrafted) to a tissue,
   an organ and/or an individual in need thereof within, or protected by, a biocompatible,
   nonimmunogenic coating, e.g., as on the surface of a synthetic implant, e.g., as described
   in U.S. Pat. No. 6,969,400, describing e.g., a protocol where a cAMP-incompetent AC
30 can be conjugated to a polyethylene glycol that has been modified to contain multiple
   nucleophilic groups, such as primary amino or thiol group.
                                                      26

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
             In one embodiment, the cells of the invention (e.g., cells made by practicing the
   methods of this invention) are readministered (e.g., injected or engrafted) to a tissue, an
   organ and/or an individual in need thereof using grafting methods as described e.g. by
   U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,442,390; 5,733,542.
 5           Any method for delivering polypeptides, nucleic acids and/or cells to a tissue or
   organ (e.g., a lung, kidney, heart) can be used, and these protocols are well known in the
   art, e.g., as described in U.S. Patent No. (USPN) 7,514,401, describing e.g., using
   intracoronary (IC), intravenous (IV), and/or local delivery (myocardial injection) of
   polypeptides, nucleic acids and/or cells to a heart in situ. For example, in alternative
10 embodiments, aerosol drug particles into the lungs and into the bloodstream, gene
   therapy, continuous infusions, repeated injections and/or sustained release polymers can
   be used for delivering polypeptides, nucleic acids and/or cells to a tissue or organ (e.g., a
   lung, kidney, heart). In alternative embodiments, nucleic acids and/or cells can be given
   through a catheter into the coronary arteries or by direct injection into the left atrium or
15 ventricular myocardium via a limited thoracotomy; or delivered into the myocardium via
   a catheter passed during cardiac catheterization; or delivered into the pericardial space.
             In alternative embodiments, nucleic acids or proteins used to practice this
   invention, or a vector comprising a nucleic acid used to practice the invention (e.g., an
   AAV, or adenoviral gene therapy vector), or vesicle, liposome, nanoparticle or nanolipid
20 particle (NLP) of the invention, and the like, to a tissue or organ (e.g., a lung, kidney,
   heart); e.g. as described in USPN 7,501,486, e.g., polypeptides of the invention
   comprising an amino acid sequence CRPPR (SEQ ID NO: 1), the amino acid sequence
   CARPAR (SEQ ID NO:2) or a peptidomimetic thereof, or amino acid sequence CPKRPR
   (SEQ ID NO:3) or a peptidomimetic thereof.
25           Compositions used to practice this invention can be used in combination with
   other therapeutic agents, e.g. angiogenic agents, anti-thrombotic agents, anti
   inflammatory agents, immunosuppressive agents, anti-arrhythmic agents, tumor necrosis
   factor inhibitors, endothelin inhibitors, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium
   antagonists, antibiotic agents, antiviral agents and viral vectors.
30           Compositions used to practice this invention can be used for ameliorating or
   treating any of a variety of cardiopathies and cardiovascular diseases, e.g., cardiopathies
   and cardiovascular diseases, e.g., coronary artery disease (CAD); atherosclerosis;
                                                     27

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   thrombosis; restenosis; vasculitis including autoimmune and viral vasculitis such as
   polyarteritis nodosa, Churg-Strass syndrome, Takayasu's arteritis, Kawasaki Disease and
   Rickettsial vasculitis; atherosclerotic aneurisms; myocardial hypertrophy; congenital
   heart diseases (CHD); ischemic heart disease and anginas; acquired valvular/endocardial
 5 diseases; primary myocardial diseases including myocarditis; arrhythmias; and transplant
   rejections; metabolic myocardial diseases and myocardiomyopathies such as congestive,
   hypertrophic and restrictive cardiomyopathies, and/or heart transplants. In alternative
   embodiments, compositions used to practice this invention, e.g., urocortin-2 (UCn-2)
   peptides or polypeptides, are used for treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing)
10 diabetes or pre-diabetes in a patient or an individual; or suppressing weight gain, or
   suppressing the appetite, or stimulating or initiating weight loss, in a patient or an
   individual; or treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) diabetes in a patient or an
   individual.
15          The invention will be further described with reference to the following examples;
   however, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to such examples.
                                            EXAMPLES
   EXAMPLE 1: Intravenous delivery of AAV9 encoding urocortin-2 increases cardiac
20                  function in normal mice
            This example demonstrates the effectiveness of an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention: intravenous delivery of AAV9/ urocortin-2 (or AAV9/UCn2) provided
   sustained increases in serum UCn2 and LV contractile function, indicating the
   effectiveness of this exemplary embodiment of the invention for the treatment of heart
25 failure.
            In this study, we developed and tested the relative efficacy of two adeno
   associated virus (AAV) serotypes (AAV5 and AAV9) encoding urocortin-2 (UCn-2),
   which is a vasoactive peptide in the corticotropin-releasing factor family that has protean
   beneficial effects in animals and patients with heart failure. AAV5.Ucn-2 and
30 AAV9.Ucn-2 (5 x 1011 genome copies, gc) were delivered by intravenous injection (IV).
   Four weeks (wks) after gene transfer, AAV DNA (qPCR) was elevated in liver
   (AAV5.UCn2: 2,601,839 copies/pg; AAV9.UCn2: 30,121,663 copies/pg) and heart
                                                     28

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   (AAV5: 87,635gc/pg; AAV9: 300,529 copies/pg; and mRNA was similarly elevated
   compared to endogenous UCn2 (AAV5.Uen-2: 68xx-fold; AAV9.Ucn-2: 8,575).
           Left ventricular samples showed Ucn2 mRNA elevation only with AAV9.UCn2,
   which was increased 28 fold over endogenous mRNA. Plasma Ucn-2 was increased
 5 (AAV5.UCn2: from 2.7 ng/ml pre to 3.6 ng/ml, p<0.0001; AAV9.UCn2. Finally,
   associated with increased serum UCn2 levels were increases in LV contractile function.
   EXAMPLE 2: Gene transfer for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases
           This example demonstrates the effectiveness of an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention in obtaining high yield transgene expression in the heart in a manner that can be
10 easily and safely applied.
           In alternative embodiments, the invention provides methods using expression
   vehicles, e.g., vectors, encoding a paracrine-type transgene.  In this embodiment, the
   transgene acts as a hormone, having cardiac effects after being released to the circulation
   from a distant site. In alternative embodiments this approach can circumvent the problem
15 of attaining high yield cardiac gene transfer and enable patients to be treated by a
   systemic injection during an office visit.
           We examined multiple AAV serotype vectors and delivery methods, and
   successfully completed proof-of-concept studies of paracrine gene transfer. Rats with
   severe dilated CHF underwent skeletal muscle delivery of an adeno-associated virus 5
20 (AAV5) vector encoding Insulin-like Growth Factor I (IGFI) under tetracycline
   regulation. This enabled activation of IGFI expression upon adding doxycycline in the
   rat's water supply. The system provided sustained elevation of serum levels of IGFI and
   improved function of the failing heart.
           In alternative embodiments, a) IGFI gene transfer is used to increase contractile
25 function; b) AAV vectors and promoters are used for intravenous delivery to provide
   maximal transgene expression with minimal off-target effects; c) regulated transgene
   expression is used to enable fine-tuning of serum transgene levels, and allow turning
   expression off and on as needed; d) gene transfer of paracrine-expressing genes, e.g., in a
   rat model of CHF is used; and e) effective doses of AAV are used, and activators of
30 transgene expression are used following intravenous delivery of the vector, e.g., in normal
   pigs, using serum paracrine (e.g., IGFI) as an end-point.
                                                    29

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            In alternative embodiments, IV injection of an AAV vector with regulated
   expression of selective peptides will, through paracrine-mediated actions, have favorable
   effects on the failing heart.
            Vector Selection. In alternative embodiments adeno-associated virus (AAV)
 5 vectors are used, enabling long-term transgene expression superior to adenovirus, while
   avoiding the potential for insertional mutagenesis associated with lentivirus vectors.
   Persistent serum elevation of Factor IX, erythropoietin and al-antitrypsin, have been
   documented in dogs and nonhuman primates, years after single injections of AAV
   vectors1 4 and we have confirmed persistent (>1 year) serum elevation of IGFI after
10 intramuscular injection of AAV5.IGFI-tet in rats in our laboratory.5 Although recent
   clinical trials have found that some AAV serotypes incite immune responses,6'7 newer
   generation AAV vectors do not appear to have similar problems in preclinical studies in
   primates.
            AAV Serotypes: In alternative embodiments an AAV serotype AAV2 is used, but
15 in some embodiments, "pseudotyped" AAV vectors are preferred. These AAV serotypes,
   which include AAV5, AAV6, AAV8 and AAV9, are hybrid constructs that include the
   capsid of AAV2 and unique replication components that confer their specific
   nomenclature. In alternative embodiments, Intravenous delivery of AAV6, AAV8 and
   AAV9 is used; these show substantial distribution and transgene expression in heart,
20 liver, skeletal muscle, and elsewhere.
            We found intravenous better than intramuscular AAV5 in increasing serum levels
   of IGFI, as illustrate in Figure 7, which graphically show data of free IGFI serum levels 3
   months after IV vs. IM AAV5.IGFI.tet gene transfer: Intravenous delivery in mice (n=3,
   each group) provided a 2-fold increase in serum IGFI after activation of IGFI expression
25 with doxycycline (On); Intramuscular delivery in rats (n=9 each group) provided a >1.3
   fold increase in serum IGFI 5 weeks after activation of IGFI expression. P values above
   bars: within group comparison (t-test, 2 tails). Change in serum IGFI was greater after
   intravenous delivery of AAV5.IGFI.tet (p<0.001).
            When given intravenously, AAV9 was superior to AAV5 in terms of transgene
30 expression in liver and heart, as illustrate in Figure 8 graphically, and by image, illustrates
   data showing the relative efficacy of intravenous delivery of exemplary AAV5 and AAV9
                                                      30

 WO 2013/123094                                                                                            PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                                                     PATENT
                                                                              0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   constructs of the invention using copy number and transgene expression in liver and heart
   as endpoints, as illustrated in Figure 8.
           In alternative embodiments, AAV8, like AAV9, provides generalized expression,
   but provides a higher proportion in liver than other organs, a property that, in combination
 5 with a liver-specific promoter, we propose to exploit.
             In alternative embodiments, self-complementary AAV vectors (scAAV) vectors
   are used; they can provide higher transgene expression than their single stranded (ssAAV)
   analogs.8 Transgene expression using the ssAAV vectors (insert capacity 4.7 kb) is
   delayed 4-6w until the complementary DNA strand is synthesized. By encoding for the
10 complementary DNA strand within the vector, scAAV (insert capacity 3.3 kb), enables
   transgene expression in 2w and results in higher transgene expression vs its ssAAV
   analog. 8
           Only one regulated expression vector (AAV8.TBG.IGFI.tet) may be amenable to
   scAAV construction, the others are too large, as illustrated in Figure 10. However, if this
15 vector is selected for the pig studies, ssAAV can be used to provide better yield for
   manufacturing the large amounts required. The scAAV analog can be used for human
   use, taking advantage of superior expression, enabling reduced dose requirements, and
   improving safety in the clinical trials.
20
                                 Feature                      Tetracycline                      Raparmycin
                                 Activator                      Doxycycline                       AP22594
                         Basal Expression ("leak")            Very lownone                          None
                          Linear Dose-Response                       Yes                             Yes
                          Activator Side-effects         Low (avoid in pregnancy)           Immunosuppressant
                          Bacterial/Viral Proteins                   Yes                              No
                           Used in Clinical Trials                Not yet                          Not yet
                                                                                                                  t4
                         TG,tronsgene; AP22594, oral rapomycin analog, I00-fold lessimmune suppression Vsrapamycin
           Promoter vs Target Tissue. In alternative embodiments, the promoter selected for
   transgene expression in AAV vectors has some tissue-dependence. In alternative
   embodiments, promoters used to practice the invention include: chicken P-actin (CBA);
25 thyroid hormone-binding globulin (TBG, liver-specific); and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV)
   promoters. In this regard, CMV has consistently been shown to be a superior promoter in
   skeletal and cardiac muscle. Recent studies indicate that the CMV promoter is
   susceptible to methylation in liver, which eventually shuts off transgene expression.
                                                                      31

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   Losing liver expression would reduce serum levels of transgene-we therefore have
   elected not to use the CMV promoter, selecting instead similarly robust promoters less
   susceptible to methylation: chicken P-actin (CBA); thyroid hormone-binding globulin
   (TBG, liver-specific); and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV) promoters, as illustrated in Figure
 5  10.
           Regulated Expression. In alternative embodiments, using long-term expression
   conferred by AAV-mediated gene transfer, transgene expression is regulated to turn off
   expression if unexpected untoward effects are seen. Regulated expression would also
   enable intermittent rather than constant delivery. In alternative embodiments, the system
10 can be configured so that the activator either turns off or turns on transgene expression.
   In instances where nearly constant transgene expression is required, an "Off' system is
   desirable (e.g., one takes the oral activator only when transgene expression is not desired,
   for example in the event of adverse effects). In alternative embodiments, in instances
   where intermittent transgene expression is required, an "On" system is desirable (e.g., one
15 takes the oral activator only for those times that transgene expression is desired).
           These alternative embodiments enable tight control, and, when tailored for the
   specific disease treated, provide a means to take the least amount of activator. In
   alternative embodiments, regulated expression systems are used, e.g., ecdysone,
   tamoxifen, tetracycline, rapamycin 9-12 ; the large size of the ecdysone system may require
20 a two-vector strategy that would be difficult to develop for clinical gene transfer because
   of regulatory constraints. The tamoxifen system, while not as cumbersome, requires a
   less tolerated activator than the tetracycline system (tamoxifen vs doxycycline). In
   alternative embodiments, only two of the available options (tetracycline and rapamycin
   regulation) may be suitable, and these are the only systems that have been tested in large
25 animal models.'     Both of these systems possess analogous features (Table 2, above): the
   gene of interest is controlled by an engineered transcription factor inducible by an
   activating drug (tetracycline or a rapamycin analog).
           Tetracycline-Regulated Expression. In alternative embodiments the invention
   uses tetracycline-regulated expression in the setting of gene transfer:
30          a)      Basal expression of transgene ("leak"). Newer rtTA variants, such as the
   one we propose and have used in recent studies (rtTA2s-M2), provide robust tetracycline
   dependent expression with no basal activity,13 unlike previous rtTA constructs.
                                                      32

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                          PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            b)      Chronic use of tetracycline vis-a-vis patient tolerability and off target
   effects.
   " The tet-regulation system has been extensively studied;" in vitro studies show that
      doxycycline-stimulated transgene expression begins at 0.001 ng/ml and reaches a
 5    maximum at 0.1 pg/ml, a 10-fold reduction in EC 50 vs the first generation system.1 3 In
      humans, a single oral dose of 200 mg doxycycline provides mean plasma and tissue
      concentrations of 1.5 pg/ml at 24h,14 15-fold higher than required for maximal
      expression. A single daily dose of doxycycline of 10-20 mg may suffice for complete
      activation of transgene expression in human subjects.15 Doses of 200 mg/d are well
10    tolerated by patients using oral doxycycline chronically for acne and chronic
      infections. 14,16
   "  ORACEA* (doxycycline 40 mg orally once daily) is approved by the FDA for
      continuous use to treat rosacea. 16 This dose, 80% lower than the 200 mg dose required
      to treat infection, provides anti-inflammatory effects that treat rosacea, but does not
15    have anti-microbial effects, and does not lead to the development of antibiotic-resistant
      organisms (11 years of clinical data). Each capsule contains 40 mg of anhydrous
      doxycycline as 30 mg of immediate-release and 10 mg of delayed-release beads.
      Subjects with allergies to tetracycline, increased photosensitivity, pregnant or lactating
      women, or children less than 9 years old (discoloration of teeth, possible reduced long
20    bone growth) should not use doxycycline. In 5 years of clinical use, the most common
      side effect was mild gastrointestinal complaints. 16
   " Tetracyclines may attenuate matrix metalloproteinase expression and activity, and have
      an impact on left ventricular (LV) remodeling when administered in the first few days
      after myocardial infarction (MI).17 However, in the proposed preclinical studies,
25    doxycycline is administered 5 weeks after MI, when LV chamber dilation and scar
      formation are stable and equal among groups. We have previously documented that
      doxycycline does not influence LV remodeling, TIMP, or MMP expression in the
      proposed murine MI-induced CHF model.1 8 In the clinical setting, tetracycline will not
      be used in the acute phase of MI.
30          c)      Immune responses to the components of the rtTA system. Immune
   responses to the tet-regulator were not identified in a long-term study that used AAV4.tet
   and AAV5.tet gene transfer (intra-retinal) in non-human primates,3'" where they saw
                                                     33

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   sustained tetracycline-dependent transgene expression for the 2.5 year duration of the
                                                                                            1 9
   study. We do not see inflammation in mouse hearts expressing high levels of rtTA'            or
   in mice and rats after AAV5-mediated regulated expression of IGFI using the rtTA2s-M2
   regulation element.5 It appears that intramuscular delivery of AAV.tet in nonhuman
 5 primates, unlike intra-retinal or vascular delivery, does lead to attenuation of regulated
   expression, owing to immune responses to the bacterial and virus component of the
   transactivator fusion protein.2   Immune response to the tet-regulator can be and
   simultaneously, the rapamycin-regulation system, which does not possess bacterial or
   virus proteins, and is not associated with provocation of the immune response, can be
10 determined. 7 See Table 2 for strengths and limitations of tet- and rapamycin regulation.
           Rapamycin-Regulated Expression. In alternative embodiments, a macrolide
   sirolimus (rapamycin), a product of the bacterium Streptomyces hygroscopicus, is used: it
   was initially developed as an anti-fungal agent, but was found to have anti-proliferative
   and immunosuppressant effects. Currently it is used clinically: a) to prevent rejection in
15 organ transplantation (2 mg P.O. (per os, orally), once daily, which provides mean serum
   levels of 126 ng/ml); and b) in drug-eluting stents to reduce restenosis after angioplasty,
   owing to its antiproliferative effects. Rapamycin increases life span in mice, appears to
   forestall deleterious effects of aging,21 and is used as an adjuvant in the treatment of
   glioblastoma multiforme.22 Rapamycin binds cytosolic FK-binding protein 12 (FKBP 12)
20 and inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway.
   A serine/threonine protein kinase, mTOR influences cell growth and proliferation, and
   promotes cell survival. Rapamycin's usefulness vis-a-vis gene therapy lies in its
   dimerization properties, a feature that is exploited in the rapamycin-regulated expression
   system. In this system, the DNA-binding and activation domains of an engineered
25 transcription factor are expressed separately as fusion proteins, which are cross linked,
   and thereby activated, by the addition of a bivalent "dimerizing" drug, in this case
   rapamycin or a rapamycin analog. 12 Expression is dose-dependent, reversible, and is
   triggered by nanomolar concentrations of activator.     2 The rapamycin system contains no
   virus or bacterial proteins, and is therefore unlikely to incite an immune response. In
30 macaques, intramuscular injection of AAV1 encoding erythropoietin provided up to 6
   year (yr) Rap-regulated expression (26 separate induction cycles) with no decline in
   levels of erythropoietin, and no immune response to the regulation elements.
                                                      34

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   Immunosuppression is a potential disadvantage to rapamycin. However, this problem can
   be circumvented by using an oral rapamycin analog (AP22594), which activates
   transgene expression as effectively as rapamycin, exhibits minimal immune suppression,
   and does not inhibit mTOR.4 Furthermore, as an activator, weekly rather than daily doses
 5 are effective, further reducing off-target effects. The dose-response relationship of orally
   administered AP22594, and its maximal dose-intervals, starting with oral doses used
   effectively in macaques (0.45 mg, once weekly), can be determined in pigs. 4
   Insulin-like Growth Factor I (IGFI)
           Selection of IGFI. Growth hormone (GH) exerts many of its effects through
10 activation of IGFI. IGFI exerts many of its effects through Akt. Because of the
   convergence of signaling from GH through IGFI to Akt, the selection of IGFI over GH or
   Akt must be defended. Increased GH expression would be predicted to increase serum
   glucose and blood pressure-deleterious effects that are avoided by selecting IGFI.
   Increased expression of Akt would be expected to reduce apoptosis, but have other
15 potentially favorable effects not provided by Akt, such as increased angiogenesis. We
   therefore selected IGFI gene transfer for our initial preclinical CHF studies, and recently
   shown that IGFI gene transfer improves function of the failing rat heart5 (see Figures 1-8
   and Tables 4 & 5).
           IGFI Signaling. IGFs, initially known as somatomedins, are a family of peptides
20 that mediate many of the anabolic and mitogenic activities of GH. Two somatomedins
   with structural and metabolic similarities to insulin were isolated from human plasma in
    1978 and named IGFI and IGFII. IGFI (somatomedin C) subsequently was shown to be
   the IGF regulated by circulating GH. IGFI has 70 amino acids in a single chain with 3
   disulfide bridges and a molecular weight of 7.6 kD. Initially thought to be generated only
25 by the liver, it has been shown to be produced by many tissues, including intestine, brain,
   kidney, lung and heart. Liver-specific deletion of the IGFI gene in rats does not alter
   normal growth and development,          indicating that IGFI, expressed widely in other tissues
   including heart, regulates growth and development through local tissue release in a
   paracrine manner.
30         IGFI belongs to a family of proteins including ligands (IGFI, IGFII, insulin), six
   known binding proteins (IGFBP 1-6), and cell surface receptors including IGFI and
   insulin receptors. 2 4 IGFI is translated as a pre-pro peptide which includes an amino
                                                        35

 WO 2013/123094                                                                  PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                                  PATENT
                                                              0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   terminal signal peptide, A, B, C and D domains and a variable carboxyl terminal E
   peptide. There are three known isoforms of pro-IGFI in humans (pro-IGFIa, pro-IGFIb
   and pro-IGFIc) that differ only in the amino acid composition of the variable E peptide.
   IGF binding proteins (IGFBP) act as carrier proteins and prolong the half-life of IGF by
 5 inhibiting degradation.24 Almost all (98%) of IGFI circulates bound predominantly (80%)
   to IGFBP-3.2 4
           IGFI and IGFII display high affinity binding to the IGFI receptor in all tissues
   except liver. The IGF receptor shares 60% homology with the insulin receptor and
   contains a tyrosine kinase domain. Receptor binding of IGFI results in
10 autophosphorylation of tyrosine residues. This activates the receptor, producing
   phosphorylation of substrates including the insulin receptor substrate, which activates
   multiple signaling cascades including the P13 kinase/Akt and mitogen activated protein
   kinase (MAPK) pathways, and others, many of which have beneficial cardiovascular
   effects (see below Sections and Table 3).
15         Effects of Increased IGFI. Increased serum IGFI lowers serum insulin levels,
                                                                 24
   increases insulin sensitivity and improves lipid profiles.       However, infusion of IGFI
   protein can cause hypotension and hypoglycemia.            GH, which opposes insulin activity,
   increases serum glucose levels. The ability of IGFI to increase glucose uptake in the
   heart may play a role in post ischemic recovery of LV function after IGFI administration.
20 IGFI increases muscle blood flow and has vasodilator activity, through receptor
   dependent and independent effects and nitric oxide production.2 6 The combined metabolic
   and vasodilator effects of high-dose intravenous IGFI infusion in humans may cause
   lightheadedness and flushing -       lower doses increase cardiac performance, do not affect
   blood pressure or serum glucose, and are unassociated with symptoms.
25         IGFI receptor activation is responsible for numerous cellular responses including
   regulation of gene expression, stimulation of myogenesis, cell cycle progression, immune
   modulation, and steroidogenesis. In the heart, IGFI and the IGFI receptor/PI3K/Akt
   signaling pathway have beneficial effects on cardiac myocyte function, growth and
   survival. Moreover, IGF exhibits angiogenic effects,2 8 increases cardiac contractile
30 function in normal  25,29,30 and failing hearts,27,29 ,0-3 and inhibits apoptosis. 3 4' 35 ' 38 These
   features make IGFI attractive for CHF therapy (Table 3).
                                                          36

 WO 2013/123094                                                                                                        PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                                                                PATENT
                                                                                        0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
                            Feature                         Mechanism                    Species                Ref
                 4 SVR                            Vasodilation via NO                       R,P, H        25,26,32,39*
                 I LV dP/dt, EFor CO              Inotrope; vasodilation                    R,D H          25,29,30,36
                 I LV Function in CHF             Inotrope, ta"       handling              R, D, P       27,29-33,39*
 5               t  Cardiac Protection            4 Apoptosis via Akt                        M. R            34,35,38
                 1 LV Mass                        CM prolif; 4 Apotosis via Akt              M, R          31,36,45,46
                 1 Blood flow                     Angiogenesis                                 R                 28
                 SVR,systemic vascular resistance; COcardiac output; EF,ejection fraction; LV,left ventricular; prolif
                 proliferation; M, mouse; R,rat; D,dog; P pig; H, human; 39 used GH, which elevated IGFI2-fold
            IGFI Protein in Treatment of Heart Disease (Table 3)
10          Preclinical Studies. The effects of administering recombinant human IGFI or GH
   protein in animal models of heart diseases have been studied. IGFI is a positive inotrope
   in isolated rat hearts and ferret papillary muscle; GH has no inotropic effect in the same
            29
   tissues.    Similar inotropic effects of IGFI were found in isolated papillary muscles from
   dogs with pacing induced heart failure.                           IGFI administered to normal rats for four weeks
15 increased cardiac function and resulted in concentric LV hypertrophy.                                                IGFI and GH
   administered together for two weeks was associated with increased LV dP/dt and LV
                                             36
   hypertrophy in normal rats.                    Administration of IGFI prior to myocardial ischemia and
   reperfusion in rats decreased creatine kinase release and reduced apoptosis. 34 Combined
   IGFI and GH32 or IGFI alone3 3 administered four weeks after MI increased LV function
20 in rats. GH given to rats for four weeks after MI increased LV systolic function,
   reduced cardiac fibrosis, cardiac myocyte apoptosis, and increased survival.38 In the
   pacing model of CHF in pigs, GH increased serum IGFI, increased LV function and
   reduced LV wall stress. 39
             Clinical Studies. Clinical use of GH or IGFI protein has received considerable
25 attention, although there is a paucity of large placebo-controlled studies. The acute
   hemodynamic effects of IGFI infusion were studied in a blinded placebo-controlled
   crossover study of CHF patients (n=8). Four-hour infusions of IGFI increased cardiac
   output, decreased vascular resistance, and reduced right atrial and wedge pressures.
   Chronic administration of IGFI protein has not been evaluated in patients with CHF. Use
30 of GH protein in patients with CHF has produced equivocal results. Two small
   uncontrolled and unblinded studies in a total of 14 patients with CHF reported that three
                                                                                                                                    4 0 41
   months of GH protein therapy increased serum IGFI, LV function and clinical status. '
                                                                               37

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   Randomized placebo-controlled trials of GH (protein) given for up to 3 months in patients
   with CHF did not alter LV function or clinical status.42 43 The most recent literature
   review of GH protein therapy concludes that evidence for efficacy in ischemic and
   idiopathic clinical CHF is lacking, perhaps due to the kinetics of peptide administration.44
 5 Thus, in alternative embodiments, the gene transfer methods of this invention, by
   providing sustained IGFI expression, can be superior to IGFI protein therapy.
            Increased Expression of Cardiac IGFI or GH. Cardiac-directed expression of
   human IGFI in rats, with its attendant increase in cardiac myocyte IGFI production,
   nearly doubles serum IGFI levels. These rats have increased heart weights with cardiac
                                                                         45
10 myocyte hyperplasia, but no increase in cardiac myocyte volume.'         After MI, reduced
   cardiac myocyte apoptosis, and increased phosphorylation of Akt were found.35 Cardiac
   directed expression of IGFI attenuates age-related cell senescence with reductions in
   telomerase activity, telomere shortening and DNA damage. These rats show increased
   Akt activation, and increased LV function at 22 months of age vs age-matched transgene
15 negative littermates.46 Co-expression of cardiac IGFI in a cardiomyopathic background
   (crossbreeding paradigm) appears to prevent cardiac apoptosis, LV remodeling and LV
   dysfunction.4 7 However, since CHF was never present, this strategy is not equivalent to
   treating already existing CHF, an approach that is a central theme in the current proposal.
            To determine if GH gene transfer would influence LV remodeling after MI, rat
20 cardiac muscle was directly injected with adenovirus encoding GH (Ad.GH) at the time
                           48
   of coronary occlusion.     Injections were made in the border zone between jeopardized
   and viable myocardium. Six weeks after MI and gene transfer, favorable effects were
   seen on LV end-diastolic dimension, LV dP/dt and wall thickness in the infarct region.
   The same scientists subsequently showed that Ad.GH injected into the infarct border zone
25 of rats three weeks after coronary artery occlusion increased LV dP/dt and attenuated LV
   dilation and wall thinning three weeks after injection.4 9 GH gene transfer during or 3w
   after MI appeared to have beneficial effects on LV remodeling.
            When adenovirus encoding IGFI (Ad.IGFI) was injected into the jeopardized
   perfusion bed just before coronary occlusion in rats, the extent of infarction was reduced
30 50%, an effect thought primarily to be the result of reduced apoptosis.50 This study did
   not address the effects of IGFI gene transfer on LV remodeling after MI. Adenovirus
   mediated gene transfer of IGFI has been shown to reduce hypoxia-induced myocyte
                                                    38

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   apoptosis in vitro, and, in a rat ischemia reperfusion model, prior injection of adenovirus
   encoding IGFI reduced infarct size approximately 50% (p<0.00 3 ), although the transgene
   was expressed in only about 15% of the ischemic region, consistent with a regional
   paracrine effect. The effect of expressing IGFI in the globally failing heart has not been
 5 explored.
           Potential IGFI Adverse Effects
           Survival. Disruption of the GH/IGFI system appears to increase, not decrease
   longevity in rats with normal cardiac function.5 1 However, we propose to increase IGFI
   expression in the setting of severe CHF, which portends markedly increased short-term
10 mortality. No data suggest that IGF inhibition increases longevity in CHF. To the
   contrary, increased serum IGFI in humans reduces the incidence of CHF and
   mortality.     Epidemiological studies have shown that people with low serum IGFI are at
   increased risk of developing ischemic heart disease. In the Framingham study,
   individuals above the median value for serum IGFI had a 50% reduced incidence of CHF
15 compared to those below the median.       '  A recent report shows that angiotensin
   converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI), which prolong life in CHF, increases IGFI
   signaling.54 Our data show that IGFI gene transfer increases function of the failing rat
   heart, and we propose to determine whether there also is a survival benefit.
           Cancer. Clinical epidemiological studies report a correlation between increases in
                                                                                               55
20 serum IGFI levels (>2-fold elevations) and prostate and premenopausal breast cancer,
   but there is no indication that this correlation is causal. It is noteworthy that the incidence
   of prostate cancer increases with age, while serum IGFI concentration decreases.         In
   cancer patients, increased serum IGFI may originate in the tumor. Indeed, increased
   expression of IGFI in prostate epithelium of rats elevates serum IGFI concentrations and
25 can lead to prostate neoplasia. 56 Increased serum IGFI concentrations may also result
   from changes in nutritional status in cancer patients. One could speculate that IGFI may
   increase tumor growth through angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis. Cardiac-directed
   expression of IGFIb, with attendant sustained elevations in serum IGFI, is not associated
   with prostate or breast cancer and combined increases in serum IGFI and GH do not
30 increase the incidence of prostate, breast or lung cancer in patients with acromegaly.5 4
   The role of IGFI in the genesis or progression of cancer is theoretical. It seems prudent
   that therapies that increase IGFI expression should limit serum concentrations of IGFI,
                                                       39

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   and also provide a means to stop expression if desired. We propose to achieve these
   goals by using gene transfer of a regulated expression vector, which increases IGFI
   concentrations in the serum and thereby has beneficial cardiovascular effects.
           Novelty of Studies. These studies are focused on the development of IGFI gene
 5 transfer for clinical CHF. IGFI (or GH) gene transfer has not been used in clinical CHF.
   No double-blinded placebo-controlled clinical trial of GH/IGFI protein in CHF has been
   successful, perhaps due to the relatively short biological half-life of GH/IGFI protein, a
   problem that would be overcome by gene transfer. Although GH and IGFI cardiac gene
   transfer have been used prior to coronary occlusion to reduce infarct size in animal
10 studies, no previous study has examined IGFI gene transfer for CHF per se. In addition,
   the proposed paracrine approach using systemic delivery of a long term and regulated
   expression vector is new, and can be applied to other paracrine-based peptides to treat a
   variety of cardiovascular diseases.
            Summary. Because of the limitations of preclinical and clinical studies vis-a-vis
15 predictable benefits of peptide administration of IGFI in the treatment of severe CHF, and
   the theoretical promise of paracrine-based gene transfer of IGFI, we embarked on studies
   in our laboratory (see Preliminary Data), designed to circumvent impediments and
   shortcomings of continuous or chronic intermittent intravenous peptide infusion.
            Other Beneficial Peptides. Although the use of IGFI is compelling, it should be
20 emphasized that the paracrine gene therapy methods of the invention are also suited for
   any circulating peptide with beneficial cardiovascular effects. For example, urocortin-2 is
   a recently discovered vasoactive peptide in the corticotropin-releasing factor family that
   acts via corticotropin-releasing factor type 2 receptors, which are robustly expressed in
   the heart and vasculature. Infusions of urocortin-2 peptide have protean beneficial effects
25 in animals and patients with heart failure.    BNP is another biologically effective peptide
   for the treatment of clinical CHF that could be delivered in a similar manner. Moreover,
   in pulmonary hypertension, prostacyclin analogs can be effective in treating pulmonary
   hypertension, but current agents (epoprostenol and trepostinil) require constant systemic
   injection, and the treatment itself is associated with high morbidity.58 In alternative
30 embodiments, methods of the invention provide a regulated expression vector encoding
   prostacyclin synthase as a paracrine-type gene therapy of pulmonary hypertension.
                                                      40

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   Indeed, any current peptide therapeutic that requires prolonged or chronic intermittent
   intravenous infusion, would lend itself to this hormone-like gene transfer approach.
            AAV & Immune Response in Clinical Studies. Long-term transgene expression
   after intramuscular or intravascular delivery of AAV vectors has been the rule rather than
 5 the exception in rodents. However, studies in patients have been bedeviled by limited
   expression due to immune responses to the transgene and, at times, the AAV vector per
   se.  Two conclusions emerge from these and other studies. 1) Intramuscular (as
   compared to intravascular) AAV delivery generally provokes increased immune response
   to the transgene and AAV capsid; and 2) success in rodents, due to their relative immune
10 tolerance, does not always predict success in humans. Rodent and pig studies can be
   designed with humans in mind:
                  AAV serotypes (AAV8 and AAV9) can be selected that are least likely to be
          associated with pre-existing neutralizing antibodies in human subjects. 59 For
          example, AAV8 is associated with the lowest prevalence of anti-AAV neutralizing
15        antibodies (19% vs 59% for AAV1 and 50% for AAV2). Moreover, among the
          minority of human subjects with AAV8/9 antibodies, 75-90% of those subjects
          possess low titers, making AAV8 and AAV9 the current optimal choices vis-a-vis
          anticipated immune response. 59 Human sera possesses almost no seropositivity to
          rhesus-derived AAV vectors, such as AAVrh.32.33, 6 0 providing an alternative
20        vector if AAV8 and AAV9 prove unsuitable, although preclinical and clinical
          experience with AAVrh.32.33 is limited.
                  Intramuscular injection of AAV vectors can be avoided because they may
                                                       6
          incite immune responses in larger animals.
                  Two species-specific IGFI proteins can be used: rat and pig. Both rat and
25        porcine IGFI can be used. The use of species-specific IGFI will reduce immune
          responses to the transgene. Clinical trials can be performed with the optimal vector
          encoding human IGFI.
            Intravenous delivery of AAV8 and AAV9 is appealing because of its simplicity,
   and because it is likely to achieve the highest serum levels of therapeutic transgene at the
30 lowest possible AAV dose. Although seroprevalence to these AAV vectors is important
   in pigs and primates, including humans, it has not been an important factor in rodents.
                                                      41

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   Preliminary sampling of pigs from our vendor show no evidence of AAV8 or AAV9
   antibodies in 7 of the 9 pigs tested.
            In alternative embodiments, expression of a transgene of the invention is limited
   to a single organ, e.g, if such a strategy provides therapeutic serum levels of that
 5 transgene. For example, an exemplary vector of the invention is AAV8 with a
   hepatocyte-specific promoter (TBG, human thyroid hormone-binding globulin).
   Paracrine-based Gene Transfer Using IGFI.
            Although we selected IGFI for these proof-of-concept studies, in alternative
10 embodiments, the invention comprises use of any of the candidate genes outlined herein,
   and any of these genes would be effective for the intended effect. For example, the
   invention provides methods and compositions that effectively deliver any paracrine
   polypeptide, e.g., a mammalian cardiotonic peptide, a Serelaxin, a Relaxin-2, a Urocortin
   2, a Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-3, a Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a
15 Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like Growth Factor-1, or any combination thereof; or, a
   human Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-3, a Brain Natriuretic Peptide, a
   Prostacyclin Synthase, a Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like Growth Factor-1, or any
   combination thereof.
            We engineered an exemplary AAV5 vector encoding rat IGFI (type A) that is
20 under control of a tetracycline response element (TRE): Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary
   construct of the invention comprising AAV5 encoding IGF 1; this exemplary AAV5
   vector provides regulated expression of IGFI: ITR, inverted terminal repeat; TRE,
   tetracycline response element; IGFIAUl, Insulin-like Growth Factor-I; SVpA, polyA
   from SV40 viral genome (bidirectional); rtTA2sM2, reverse tetracycline controlled
25 transactivator; CMV, human cytomegalovirus early gene promoter. Total insert size, 2823
   bp, fits into a scAAV5 vector (capacity 3.3 kb).
            The coding sequence includes a signal peptide to ensure extracellular secretion of
   IGFI. We have used this vector (AAV5.IGFI.tet) in gene transfer experiments in cultured
   cardiac myocytes: Figure 2A illustrates data from studies where cultured neonatal rat
30 cardiac myocytes were infected with AAV5.IGFI.tet (10,000 gc/cell, 2d); the gels
   illustrated show that IGFI expression was induced by doxycycline (+Dox) (2 pg/ml, 3d),
   but did not occur in the absence of doxycycline (-Dox). IGFI was detected in media by
                                                      42

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   anti-AUl antibody by immunoblotting.        Figure 2B illustrates data where in the same
   experiments cardiac myocytes were lysed in Akt lysis buffer (10 min, 4'C) and
   centrifuged (12,000xg, 10 min); total Akt and phospho-Akt were detected by anti-Akt and
   anti-phospho-T308-Akt antibodies. IGFI expression was associated with Akt activation.
 5 After infection, transgene expression was undetectable (no "leak") until activation with
   doxycycline (Figure 2A).
            Our vector (Figure 1) contains a more recent rtTA variant (rtTA2s-M2), which
   provides robust dox-dependent expression and low or absent basal activity, unlike
   previous rtTA constructs.
10   Regulated IGFI Expression in Cultured Cardiac Myocytes
            Cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes underwent gene transfer with AAV5.IGFI
   tet (104 gc/cell, 2 days). As graphically illustrated in Figure 3, subsequently, doxycyline
   (2 pg/ml) was added to media, and IGFI mRNA expression was quantified using real
   time RT-PCR. Expression of IGFI mRNA was increased (versus (vs) unstimulated) by
15  1.5-fold within 30 min, and reached a peak of 14-fold elevation by 24 hrs. At 48 hrs,
   IGFI mRNA was somewhat less (10-fold), reflecting doxycycline degradation. To turn
   off IGFI expression doxycycline was removed using four sequential PBS washes ("off
   wash," see Figure 3). IGFI mRNA rapidly decreased after doxycycline withdrawal.
   Skeletal Muscle Delivery of AAV5.IGFI.tet Improves Function of the Failing Heart
20          Skeletal Muscle Gene Transfer. We initially performed studies in murine heart
   failure after indirect intracoronary delivery of AAV5.IGFI.tet (Figure 1), finding
   substantial improvements in function of the failing heart after cardiac-targeted delivery.
   However, proof-of-concept studies to demonstrate the efficacy of a paracrine-based
   transfer, would require skeletal muscle delivery of the vector. For these pivotal studies,
25 we used intramuscular delivery of AAV5.IGFI.tet in the tibialis anterior muscle of rats. 5
   AAV5 was selected because of its well-known high expression levels after IM injection
   in skeletal muscle. In all instances we have found IGFI expression in media (cell culture
   experiments), and long term IGFI expression in heart (murine CHF model) and in serum
   (rat model after IM injection, mouse after IV injection), and corresponding improvement
30 in function of failing heart.5
            In the rat study, we first examined the feasibility of skeletal muscle injection of
   AAV5.EGFP to provide long-term transgene expression, as illustrated in Figure 4A:
                                                      43

 WO 2013/123094                                                            PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                      PATENT
                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   illustrating photomicrographs showing EGFP expression in unilateral tibialis anterior
   muscle 3 weeks after AAV5.EGFP gene transfer in rats. Contralateral uninjected tibialis
   anterior muscle from the same animal shows no expression of EGFP. Figure 4B is Table
   4, which summarizes data from the echocardiography measuring the effects of Skeletal
 5 Muscle IGFI Expression in CHF.
   MI Model of CHF & Experimental Protocol
            MI was induced in rats by proximal left coronary occlusion, resulting in large
   transmural infarction and severe impairment of LV function. One week after MI, rats with
   impaired LV function received 2x10 12 genome copies (gc) of AAV5.IGFI.tet in the
10 anterior tibialis muscle. Four weeks later (5w after MI), rats with LV ejection fraction
   (EF) <35% were randomly assigned to two groups: one group received doxycycline in
   drinking water to activate IGFI expression (IGF-On; n=10) and the other did not receive
   doxycycline (IGF-Off; n=9). Ten weeks after MI (5w after activation of IGFI
   expression), LV size and function were assessed by echocardiography and hemodynamic
15 studies; Figure 5 illustrates the experimental protocol for AAV5.IGFI.tet skeletal muscle
   gene transfer in CHF.
            Outcome. IGF-On rats showed increased LV ejection fraction (p=0.0 2 ) and
   reduced LV end-systolic dimension (p=0.03) (Table 4, see Figure 4B). Furthermore, LV
   contractile function, assessed by the rate of pressure development (LV +dP/dt) during
20 dobutamine infusion, was increased after initiation of IGFI expression (p=0.001) (Table
   5, next page). In addition, favorable changes in cardiac output (p=0.007) and stroke work
   (p=0.00 3 ) were observed (Table 5). Serum IGFI was increased 5 wk after transgene
   activation (IGF-Off: 16424 ng/ml; IGF-On: 21811 ng/ml; p=0.008; n=9 each group).
   These data indicate that skeletal muscle injection of AAV5.IGFI.tet enables tetracycline
25 activated expression, increases serum IGFI levels, and improves function of the failing
   heart.1 In alternative embodiments, less immunogenic AAV vectors can be used, and
   they can be used intravenously rather than in an intramuscular injection to circumvent
   inciting immune responses, and test two regulated expression systems.
30
                                                     44

   WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
Table 5. Effects of Activation of Skeletal Muscle IGFI Expression in CHF
                                                IGF-Off (n=10)       IGF-On (n=10)          p
 HR (beats/min)          Basal                   37742               36483                0.79
                         Dobutamine              37329               39510
 CO                      Basal                   10.32.2             16.31.8              0.007
 (ml/min)                Dobutamine              15.82.4             23.22.8
 SW (ml-mmHg)            Basal                   1.60.4              4.10.6               0.003
                         Dobutamine              3.80.8              6.41.2
 LV +dP/dt               Basal                   4,237630            6,337687             <0.0001
 (mmHg/s)                Dobutamine              6,842913            12,9741,061
 LV -dP/dt               Basal                   -3,453494           -4,564409            0.030
 (mmHg/s)                Dobutamine              -6,0361,197         -8,5181,056
 Systolic Pressure       Basal                   104 12              143 11               0.011
(mmHg)                  Dobutamine               1139                1638
 Mean Pressure           Basal                   82 13               1108                  0.07
(mmHg)
 SVR (Wood Units)        Basal                   7.51.3              6.80.5               0.23
 HR, heart rate; CO, cardiac output; SW, stroke work.
 Data denote mean SE.
 Probability values from 2-way ANOVA, showing IGFI effect. Reference 5
      Cardiac Apoptosis and Fibrosis (Figure 6)
              Figure 6 illustrates the effects of AAV5.IGFI-tet gene transfer on cardiac
   5  apoptosis and fibrosis. Figure 6A graphically illustrates data from TUNEL staining that
      indicated that activation of IGFI expression (IGF-On) was associated with reduced
      cardiac myocyte apoptosis ( p<0.0001; 2-way ANOVA), which was reduced more in the
      border than remote region. Figure 6B illustrates picrosirius red-stained sections of the
      uninfarcted intraventricular septum from IGF-Off and IGF-On rats that showed reduced
  10  cardiac fibrosis, and collagen fractional area was reduced (p=0.0 4 8 ); Figure 6C
      graphically illustrates this data from the IGF-Off and IGF-On rats.
              Intravenous vs Intramuscular Delivery of AAV5.IGFI.tet. In preliminary studies,
      we determined whether intravenous gene transfer could increase circulating IGFI levels.
      One week after intravenous delivery of AAV5.IGFI.tet (5x10 1 0 gc per mouse, tail vein)
  15  mice were randomly assigned to one of two groups: one group received doxycycline in
      drinking water to activate IGFI expression (IGF-On) and the other did not receive
      doxycycline (IGF-Off). Since the majority of circulating IGFI is bound to IGFI binding
                                                         45

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                      PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   proteins (IGFBPs) with high affinity and is biologically inactive, we measured free serum
   IGFI, the bioactive IGFI form, which was 2-fold higher in IGF-On than in IGF-Off mice
   3 months after activation of IGFI expression (Figure 7, next page). Using the
   intramuscular AAV5.IGFI.tet (2x 1012 gc per rat) gene transfer strategy outlined in
 5 Section 2.2.1.2., we found a 1.3-fold increase of free serum IGFI in IGF-On group than
   IGF-Off group 5 weeks after activation of IGFI expression (Figure 7). These data suggest
   that intravenous delivery of AAV5.IGFI.tet is more effective than intramuscular delivery
   vis-a-vis serum IGFI concentrations.
            Moreover, an intravenous strategy is likely to circumvent provocation of immune
10 response, which has been observed following intramuscular delivery of AAV. 6 These
   experiments provide pivotal feasibility data for our studies.
   Intravenous Delivery: AAV5 vs AAV9.
            We next determined the relative efficacy of intravenous delivery of AAV5 vs
   AAV9, using copy number and transgene expression in liver and heart as endpoints, as
15 illustrated in Figure 8. We used self-complementary (sc) AAV vectors, enabling earlier
   expression vs single-strand (ss) AAV vectors. Mice received intravenous
   scAAV5.CMV.EGFP or scAAV9.CMV.EGFP (5x10"1 gc) and were killed 21d later. PCR
   primers directed to common sequences in both vectors were used to compare AAV DNA
   copy number in liver and heart. In liver, AAV9 (vs AAV5) provided 3-fold increases in
20 both AAV DNA copies and in EGFP expression; in heart, a 5-fold increase in AAV DNA
   copies and an 8-fold increase in EGFP expression were seen. These data show that,
   compared to intravenous AAV5, AAV9 can provide higher serum levels of transgene.
   Methods
            Figure 10 illustrates exemplary vectors and vector designs of the invention: Using
25 intravenous delivery of three vectors selected from preliminary studies and biological
   features, the relative merits of widely distributed and expressed AAV8 and AAV9 (Figure
    10 A), and AAV8 with a liver-specific promoter (Figure 10B) can be determined. The
   criterion for effectiveness can be serum levels of IGFI 6 weeks (w) after delivery. An
   optimal AAV vector is used to generate two regulated expression vectors (Tet and Rap),
30 which can be compared following intravenous delivery in rats, as illustrated in Figure 10
   C-F. The criterion for effectiveness can be serum levels of IGFI, this time examined 16 w
   after activation of transgene expression (20w after delivery).
                                                      46

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                      PATENT
                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            Figure 1OA & B. AAV vectors for the initial studies in rats to determine the best
   AAV serotype for subsequent studies. These vectors encode rat IGFI (unregulated),
   driven by CBA (AAV8 & AAV9) or TBG (AAV8). The best of these, based on serum
   IGFI levels and duration of expression, can be used to undergo subsequent studies to
 5 determine the optimal regulation system.
            Figure 10C-F. Candidate vectors for studies in rats to determine the optimal
   regulated expression system. Using the best AAV vector from the initial studies (above),
   2 regulated expression vectors are generated and tested: one with Tetracycline-regulation,
   the other with Rapamycin-regulation. These vectors encode regulated expression of rat
10 IGFI, driven by RSV (AAV8 & AAV9) or TBG (AAV8). The CBA promoter is too large
   for the Rapamycin-regulation vector, so RSV is used instead. The better of these two
   regulation systems is selected for generation of the optimal vector for the subsequent
   studies in normal pigs, encodes for regulated expression of porcine IGFI. ITR, inverted
   terminal repeat; TRE, tetracycline response element; IGFI, Insulin-like growth factor-I;
15 SVpA, polyA from SV40 virus genome (bidirectional); rtTA2sM2, reverse tetracycline
   controlled transactivator; SV40en, simian virus 40 enhancer; TBG Prom, thyroid
   hormone-binding globulin promoter; RSV Prom, Rous sarcoma virus promoter; FRB-p6,
   part of FRAP, a rapamycin interacting protein, combined with a subunit of transcription
   factor NF-KB (p65); IRE, internal transcription reentry site; ZF, zinc finger HD 1 DNA
20 binding domain; FKBP, FK506 binding protein; pA, minimal polyadenylation segment;
   ZBD, zinc finger HD DNA binding domain (8 copies).
            We do not anticipate that immune responses to AAV will play an important role in
   rats, although such responses are important in dogs, pigs, humans and other primates.
   Immune responses should be carefully assessed. AAV biodistribution (e.g., using qPCR
25 using primers amplifying common sequences in all vectors) and toxicity (e.g., using
   histological analysis) can be quantified.
            Group Size. The primary criterion for success can be serum level of IGFI, which
   has a coefficient of variation of 20%. To detect a 30% difference in serum IGFI between
   groups, assuming an a error of 0.05 and a 0 error of 0.10, will require a group size of
30 n=10.
                                                    47

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                      PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   EXAMPLE 3: Delivery of AAV8 encoding urocortin-2 increases cardiac function
           This example demonstrates that in alternative embodiments of methods of this
   invention a paracrine transgene acts as a hormone and has cardiac effects after being
   released to the circulation from a distant site. This exemplary approach can circumvent
 5 the problem of attaining high yield cardiac gene transfer and enable patients to be treated
   by a systemic injection during an office visit. Furthermore, this exemplary approach can
   eliminate the need for intravenous (IV) delivery of therapeutic peptides and thereby
   circumvent repeated and prolonged hospital stays, high morbidity, and enormous
   economic costs. In alternative embodiments, the most suited vector to achieve these
10 goals is the adeno-associated virus type 8 (AAV8), which provides long term and
   extensive expression after intravenous delivery in rodents, pigs, and primates.
           In alternative embodiments of methods Urocortin-2, a recently discovered
   corticotropin releasing factor family vasoactive peptide, is used as a therapeutic
   transgene. Urocortin-2 can act via corticotropin-releasing factor type 2 receptors, which
15 are robustly expressed in the heart and vasculature. Studies in animals and patients with
   congestive heart failure have shown favorable hemodynamic effects of urocortin-2
   peptide infusions, including increased contractile function independent of loading,
   indicating direct cardiac effects. We established that intravenous delivery of AAV8 using
   the chicken P-actin promoter provides sustained high serum levels of UCn2 and increases
20 function of the failing mouse heart.
           To select the best specific embodiments to practice this aspect of the invention,
   studies in mice and pigs can be carried out, e.g.,: a) determine regulated transgene
   expression to enable fine-tuning of plasma transgene levels, and allow turning expression
   off and on as needed; and b) determine the safety, efficacy, and mechanism of action of
25 urocortin-2 gene transfer, using this exemplary paracrine-based approach in an art
   accepted animal model, a mouse model of CHF. Also, use of normal pigs can determine:
   a) the minimally effective vector dose required to increase serum UCn2; b)
   biodistribution of the vector and transgene; and c) toxicity.
           Potential advantages of paracrine gene transfer methods of the invention over IV
30 peptide infusion are shown in Table 1 (above). In alternative embodiments, practicing
   methods of the invention allows circumvention of infection and reduced repeated and
   prolonged hospital stays, thereby reducing costs. In alternative embodiments, systemic
                                                     48

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   vector delivery is an advantage in paracrine gene transfer by providing the highest level
   of expression for any given AAV dose. The potential safety and efficacy of this approach
   was recently demonstrated in an early phase gene therapy clinical trial in patients with
   hemophilia B,2 a study that has restored hope in gene therapy. In alternative
 5 embodiments, paracrine gene transfer methods of the invention can be suited for any
   circulating peptide with beneficial cardiovascular effects.
            In alternative embodiments, AAV is used to enable longer transgene expression
   than adenovirus, and avoid insertional mutagenesis associated with retrovirus. Persistent
   transgene expression has been shown in large animals years after a single injection of
10 AAV vectors.6-10 We have confirmed this in mice" & rats. Although recent clinical
   trials have found that some AAV serotypes incite immune responses after IM
   injection,      newer generation AAV vectors (AAV5, 6, 8 and 9) do not have similar
                           .14                                      -   vss       rngn
   problems in primates.       IV AAV delivery is superior to IM vis-d-vis serum transgene
   levels, and AAV9 and AAV8 are superior to AAV5 15 (and unpublished data). Moreover,
15 pre-existing anti-AAV8 antibodies are not as prevalent in humans (19%) as are other
   AAV serotypes including AAV1 & AAV2 (50-59%).16 Our data, graphically illustrated in
   Figure 11, indicate that IV AAV8 is the optimal vector and delivery route to attain
   sustained increased levels of serum UCn2 for a paracrine approach. Figure 11 illustrates
   data from: IV delivery of AAV9.CMV.UCn2 (9.CMV), AAV9.CBA.UCn2 (9.CBA) vs
20 AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (8.CBA); where the data indicated that all vectors were associated
   with substantial increases in serum UCn2 6w later. Numbers in bars denote sample size
   for each group; p value from ANOVA. ITR, inverted terminal repeat; SVpA, polyA from
   SV40 viral genome; UCn2, urocortin-2; CBA, chicken P-actin promoter; CMV enhancer,
   human cytomegalovirus enhancer.
25          Despite its robustness in striated muscle, the CMV promoter is susceptible to
   methylation and inactivation in liver,17 and our data indicate that promoters less
   susceptible to methylation are superior. Indeed, although CMV provided a sustained 2
   fold increase in UCn2 after IV vector delivery, use of the chicken P-actin (CBA)
   promoter resulted in 15.7-fold increase in serum UCn2, as illustrated in Figure 11. The
30 hepatocyte-specific thyroid hormone-binding globulin (TBG) promoter also can be used.
            In alternative embodiments, the constructs and methods of the invention allow for
   regulated expression, e.g., turning off expression. Because of the potential for long-term
                                                      49

 WO 2013/123094                                                                                       PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                                                PATENT
                                                                               0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   expression conferred by AAV gene transfer, the ability to turn off expression is desirable
   in the event that untoward effects develop. Regulated expression also enables the
   flexibility of intermittent rather than constant transgene delivery. In alternative
   embodiments, the constructs and methods of the invention use regulated expression
 5 systems such as e.g.,: ecdysone, tamoxifen, tetracycline, rapamycin.18-2 1 The size of the
   ecdysone system requires a two-vector strategy and tamoxifen presents issues with
   toxicity. Tetracycline and rapamycin regulation systems (Table 2) have been tested in
                              2 2 26
   large animal models 91, 0
10
                                Feature                   Tetracycline                Rapamycin
                                Activator                   Doxycycline                 AP22594
                        BasalExpression ("leak")           Very law/none                  None
                         Linear Dose-Response                    Yes                       Yes
                          Activator Side-effects      Low (avoid in pregnancy)      Immunosuppressant
                         Bacteria   iral Proteins               Yes                        Noa
                          Used in Clinical Trials             Not yet                    Not yet
                        TG,d ynsgee; AP22594,  oralropoycinanalog, o-fnicd less    suppression
                                                                              immune        vsr aclyc  l
15
           In alternative embodiments, the constructs and methods of the invention use a tet
   regulation system, which has been extensively studied.                            Unlike previous tTA constructs,
     TA variants of this invention (e.g., rtTA2sM2), provide robust tet-dependent expression
                                                     1 26 28 29 30
   with no basal activity (i.e. no "leak")                              and     0-fold higher sensitivity to
20 tetracycline (maximum transgene expression activation at 0.1                              g/ml). 30 A single daily
   dose of doxycycline of 10-20 mg may suffice for complete activation of transgene
   expression in human subjects .26            1
                                                  Doses of 200 mg/d are well tolerated by patients using
   oral doxycycline chronically for acne and chronic infections. 1 3 Tetracyclines may
   attenuate matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity and affect LV remodeling when
25 administered in the first few days after MI. 24 We have previously shown that doxycycline
   does not influence LV remodeling, TIMP, or MMP expression in the proposed murine
   MI-induced CHF model, where doxycycline is given 5w after MI. 25 In clinical settings,
   tetracycline will not be used in the acute phase of MI.
           Immune responses to components of the utTA system, a potential problem, were
30 not identified in a study of AAV4.tet and AAV5.tet gene transfer (intraretinal) in non
   human primates,9 where tetracycline-dependent transgene expression persisted for the 2.5
   year duration of the study. We do not see inflammation in mouse hearts expressing high
                                                                        50

 WO 2013/123094                                                                 PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                          PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   levels of rtTA,25,28,29 or in mice after AAV5-mediated regulated expression of IGFI using
   the rtTA2s-M2 regulation element."       It appears that IM delivery of AAV.tet in nonhuman
   primates, unlike intra-retinal or vascular delivery, does lead to attenuation of regulated
   expression, owing to immune responses to the bacterial and virus components of the
 5 transactivator fusion protein.3 3 Immune response to the tet-regulator and the rapamycin
   regulation system, which does not possess bacterial or virus proteins and is not associated
   with provocation of the immune response, can be simultaneously tested.1 0 See Table 2 for
   strengths and limitations of tet- & rapamycin regulation.
            In the rapamycin regulation system, transgene expression is triggered by
10 nanomolar concentrations of rapamycin or a rapamycin analog, which is dose-dependent
   and reversible.2 1 Rapamycin is used clinically to suppress immune response, forestalls
   deleterious effects of aging in mice     and inhibits glioblastoma multiforme34 by blocking
   the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway.              The oral rapamycin
   analog AP22594, which activates transgene expression as effectively as rapamycin,
15 exhibits minimal immune suppression, and does not inhibit mTOR.10 '3 5 3 7 Pigs can be
   used to determine the dose-response relationship of orally administered AP22594, and its
   required dosing intervals, starting with oral doses similar to those used effectively in
   macaques (0.45 mg/kg, once weekly).10
            In alternative embodiments, the constructs and methods of the invention express
20 in vivo Urocortin-2, including UCnl, UCn2 and UCn3 (38-40 amino acids (aa)), which
   belong to the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) family. These peptides can stimulate
   corticotropin-releasing factor receptors 1 and 2 (CRF1, CRF2). UCnl binds to CRFR1 &
   CRFR2, but UCn2 & Ucn3 exclusively bind CRFR2 , 38 4 1which are expressed in cardiac
                                                             42,43,44
   myocytes, vasculature, gut, brain and skeletal muscle.             Although UCnl was found in
25 LPS-induced inflammation and was implicated in tissue permeability,         45,46 UCn2's
   effects, which are diverse, have been associated with favorable biological effects, owing
   in part to its affinity for CRFR2. UCn2's effects are not entirely cAMP-dependent. For
   example, CRFR2 desensitization after UCn2 binding induces PI3K/Akt signaling via
   translocation of P-arrestin. In addition, increased ERKl/2 signaling occurs via
30 disassociation of G protein 0 & y subunits. 4 7' 48 These cAMP-independent events
   contribute to reduced cardiac myocyte apoptosis. Peptide infusions of UCn2 in
                                                       51

 WO 2013/123094                                                                                                           PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                                                                     PATENT
                                                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   preclinical and clinical CHF have consistently shown favorable effects on LV function,
   and reduced activation of the sympathoadrenal axis.4 9 5 1
           As listed in Table 3, below, among many beneficial effects, UCn2 infusion using
   methods and compositions of the invention can increase contractile function independent
 5 of loading conditions, indicating direct cardiac effects.                                     The mechanisms for inotropic
   effects have not been defined. Recent studies suggest beneficial effects on Ca2
   handling,    action potential duration,54 ischemia-reperfusion injury,                                                   and the renin
   aldosterone system.4 9 The safety and efficacy of UCn2 infusion has been confirmed in
   large animal models of CHF,58'59 and in normal human subjects & patients with CHF.5 '
                                                                                              60
10 A recent editorial promotes its use in Class 3 & 4 CHF.
                                 Feature                           Mechanism                    Species            Ref
                        4 SVR                           Vasodilation via CRFR2                    M. S.H        44,57-59
                        * CO & EF                       Inotrope:vasodilation                     MS.H          44,57-59
                        4 Cardiac Work                 4   SVRand LAP                             M.S.H         44,57-59
                        * LV Diastolic Function         Lusotrope                                M.R.S.H         44,52.56
15                      * Diuresis                     * RBF & Na excretion         4 RAS          S.H          49,57-59
                        * LV function in CHF            All of the above are reported            MRSH         44,49,56,57.59
                        4 LV IR Injury  & apoptosis     Unknown                                    M.R            53-55
                        SVR,systemic va clar resistcc: CRFR2,                                          9crd1c output:F Ift
                                                              corticotopi,,-reiosi,,gfactorreceptor-2:CO,
                                  election
                        ventricular                     ventricular:LAP,ft atriclpressure:RBF
                                         fracton;:LV,;eft                                       ,enalbloodflow;RASrenn
                        ongiotensisystemCM    cArdic myocyte:1R, iscihemio-reperfuio                 ,
                                                                                      : M,mouse:R rt;Ssheep:H-iumo
           Since plasma half-life of UCn2 is 15 min,                                    chronic infusion is required. In
20 contrast, in alternative embodiments, paracrine-based UCn2 gene transfer of the invention
   can circumvent impediments associated with chronic peptide infusions, as noted in Table
    1, above. By expressing only species-specific UCn2 in the two species proposed,
   immune responses to the transgene will be abrogated.
           Paracrine-basedGene Transfer Proofof Concept. We proved that paracrine gene
25 transfer via IM injection of AAV5 encoding Insulin-like Growth Factor-I (AAV5.IGFI)
   improves function of the failing rat."                   We now also have shown that IV delivery of
   AAV8 encoding UCn2 not only provides sustained high levels of serum UCn2 (>15-fold
   increase), but increases function of normal and failing hearts.
           Selection of AAV Vector and Promoter. It was clear from previous published
30 studies that IV AAV8 or AAV9 would provide higher levels of transgene expression than
   other AAV serotypes, and CMV or CBA promoters, which generally are the most robust,
   would be optimal. Therefore we engineered an AAV8 & two AAV9 vectors encoding
                                                                               52

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   murine UCn2 driven by CMV or CBA to determine which vector would most effectively
   increase serum UCn2, as illustrated in Figure 11. A commercially available UCn2
   specific ELISA was used. AAV9.CMV raised serum UCn2 2.3-fold, which, while lower
   than the other 2 vectors, may be sufficient for a therapeutic response. However,
 5 AAV8.CBA was associated with a 15.7-fold rise in serum UCn2 (AAV8.CBA.UCn2: 109
    7 ng/ml, n=9; Control: 7  Ing/ml). Such a high level of serum UCn2 would enable
   reducing the AAV8 dose. The superiority of AAV8.CBA and AAV9.CBA over
   AAV9.CMV may reflect either CBA's relative robustness or CMV's susceptibility to
   methylation and inactivation in liver.     We therefore selected AAV8.CBA for additional
10 studies.
            AAV8.CBA.UCn2 Distribution & Expression After Intravenous Delivery. In
   alternative embodiments, the constructs and methods of the invention express in vivo by a
   paracrine-based gene transfer strategy UCn2, and can be used to increase serum levels of
   UCn2. Alternative embodiments do not require that UCn2 expression be present in the
15 heart per se, because it is the effects of circulating UCn2 and its effects on the heart and
   vasculature that will provide the therapeutic effects of the transgene, effects that do not
   require UCn2 expression in cardiac myocytes themselves.
              Liver Expression of UCn2. The 15.7-fold increase in serum UCn2 documented
   6w after IV delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5 x 1011 gc; see Figure 11) was associated
20 with a time-dependent increase in UCn2 mRNA expression in liver, as illustrated in
   Figure 12, that plateaued 4-6 weeks after delivery, which correlated well with the steady
   rise in serum UCn2. Fig 12A graphically illustrates a time course of UCn2 mRNA
   expression in liver after AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5x 1011 gc, IV). Liver UCn2 expression
   (each bar is mean value from 2 mice) reached a plateau 4-6 weeks after delivery, which
25 correlated with the plateau seen with serum UCn2 (data not shown). Fig 12B graphically
   illustrates data showing UCn2 mRNA expression in LV 6 weeks (w) after
   AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5x 1011 gc, IV). Similar high levels of UCn2 mRNA were seen in
   skeletal muscle samples (data not shown).
            Cardiac Expression of UCn2. Although cardiac expression of UCn2 is not
30 required for the beneficial effects of the paracrine-based gene therapies of the invention,
   we documented substantial increases in UCn2 mRNA expression in LV samples 6w after
   IV delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2, see Figure 12B. In alternative embodiments, a
                                                       53

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   construct of the invention, including e.g., AAV8, including AAV8 DNA presence and
   UCn2 mRNA, can be delivered to and/or expressed in any organ or other organs,
   including skeletal muscle, lung, brain, kidney, spleen, small intestine, bone marrow.
            UCn2 Gene Transfer in Normal Mice. To determine if UCn2 gene transfer
 5 increased LV function, we delivered AAV8.UCn2 (5x 101 gc) or saline (control) by
   intravenous (IV) delivery in normal mice. Five weeks after UCn2 gene transfer, mice
   underwent an invasive procedure in which Millar catheters (1.4F) were placed in the LV
   chamber to measure pressure development. Data acquisition and analyses were blinded
   to group identity. UCn2 gene transfer increased LV contractile function (LV +dP/dt) (Fig
10  13A, left); -dP/dt also was reduced, indicating enhanced LV relaxation (Fig 13B, right
   panel). No adverse effects on LV mass, histology, or LV structure or function were
   detected. Fig. 3 graphically illustrates: LV function in normal mice 6 weeks after IV
   delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (vs saline-injected control mice. Fig. 3A: LV +dp/dt; Fig.
   3B. LV -dP/dt. Values represent meanSE. Number in bars denotes group size. UCn2
15 gene transfer increased both contractile function and cardiac relaxation.
            UCn2 Gene Transfer in Mice with CHF. We used proximal left coronary
   occlusion to induce severe CHF in mice, a model that we have used extensively and that
   mimics aspects of clinical ischemia-based CHF.       As shown in the protocol (Fig 12A),
   3w after coronary occlusion, we performed echocardiography to confirm severe LV
20 dysfunction and chamber dilation. We then randomly assigned enrollees to receive IV
                                          1
   delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5x10           gc per mouse) or an equivalent volume of saline.
   Five weeks after randomization, mice underwent repeat echocardiography and
   measurement of LV pressure development and decay and their first derivative, LV
   +dP/dt. Data acquisition and analyses were blinded to group identity. Despite marked
25 LV dysfunction that was present at the time of UCn2 gene transfer, LV fractional area
   change (FAC%), an ejection fraction surrogate, was increased (Fig 14B). UCn2 gene
   transfer also increased LV systolic (LV +dP/dt) and diastolic (LV -dP/dt) function (Fig
    14C). Peak LV +dP/dt was increased to a value that approached normal, confirming that
   the proposed strategy merits development as a novel therapy for CHF. Figure 14B and
30  14C illustrate data showing the effects of UCn2 transfer on the failing heart: Fig. 14A: 3w
   after MI and development of CHF, mice received IV AAV8.UCn2 or saline; 5w after
   gene transfer (8w after MI), LV function was assessed (blinded studies); Fig.14B. UCn2
                                                     54

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   gene transfer increased LV fractional area change (%FAC); Fig. 14C. UCn2 gene transfer
   increased LV peak +dP/dt and peak -dP/dt, indicating marked benefits in systolic &
   diastolic LV function of the failing heart.
           UCn2 Gene Transfer: Effects on Cardiac Ca2+ Handling
 5         C2.5. 1.UCn2 Gene Transfer Alters Expression of SERCA2a. AAV8.CBA.UCn2
   gene transfer (5x1011 gc, IV) was associated with increased expression of SERCA2a
   mRNA and protein in LV samples obtained from mice 4w after gene transfer (Fig 15).
   These changes would be anticipated to promote Ca2+ availability to the myofilament, and
   thereby to increase both systolic and diastolic function, as we have observed in normal
10 and failing hearts following UCn2 gene transfer (Fig 13 and 14), providing a plausible
   mechanism by which UCn2 gene transfer increases LV function. Similar effects of UCn2
   peptide have been described in isolated cardiac myocytes.
           Fig. 15 illustrates data (Fig. 15A, by graph, Fig. 15B, by immunoblot) where
   normal mice received IV delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5x10 11 gc) or saline (CON); and
15 four weeks later, LV samples from the UCn2 gene transfer group showed a 2-fold
   increase in SERCA2a protein expression. Immunoblotting signal was normalized to TnI
   content. Numbers in bars denote group size. These changes in SERCA2a expression
   would be anticipated to promote Ca 2+ availability at the myofilament, and thereby
   increase LV systolic and diastolic function.
20         UCn2 Gene Transfer & Ca 2+ Transients. Cardiac myocytes (CM) were isolated
   from mice 4w after AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5x1011 gc, IV). Mice that had received IV saline
   were used as controls. During the measurement, cardiac myocytes from UCn2 mice were
   incubated with 24 nM UCn2 peptide to mimic serum UCn2 levels in vivo. Cardiac
   myocytes from mice receiving UCn2 gene transfer showed altered Ca2+ transients with
25 reduced ti/2 , as illustrated in Figure 16: Ca 2+transients following UCn2 gene transfer:
   Fig. 16A graphically illustrates that UCn2 gene transfer increased the rate of Ca2+ decline;
   Fig. 16B graphically illustrates that time-to-Ca2+ transient decay was shortened in cardiac
   myocytes from mice that had received UCN2 gene transfer 4w prior. Experiments were
   repeated three times. Bars denote mean +SE; numbers in bars denote number of cardiac
30 myocytes; numbers above bars indicate p value.
           UCn2 is Cardioprotective. To test UCn2's effects on hypoxic injury, we treated
   cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes with sodium azide (NaN3), which irreversibly
                                                       55

 WO 2013/123094                                                            PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                     PATENT
                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   binds the heme cofactor in cytochrome oxidase and inhibits mitochondrial respiration,
   mimicking hypoxia-induced cytotoxicity. UCn2 treatment protected cardiac myocytes
   from injury as reflected morphologically and by reduced LDH release, as illustrated in
   Figure 17. UCn2 also protects isolated cardiac myocytes from hypoxia-reoxygenation
 5 injury (p<0.001; data not shown). Figure 17 shows data that UCn2 protects cultured
   neonatal rat cardiac myocytes from hypoxic injury: Fig. 17A illustrates that UCn2 (60
   nM) preserves morphological normality 24 hr after NaN3 (10 mM) treatment; Fig. 17B
   graphically illustrates that UCn2 reduced LDH release after NaN3 treatment (p<0.00 1).
           Effects on CREB and b-Catenin. LV samples were obtained from mice 4w after
10 AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5x 101 gc, IV). Mice that had received IV saline were used as
   controls. LV samples from mice that had received UCn2 gene transfer showed increased
   phosphorylation of CREB (a 3-fold increase, p<0.01, Fig 18A). CREB is a
   transcriptional factor that enables CRE-mediated gene expression in the heart. In
   addition, UCn2 gene transfer was associated with a 2-fold increase in LV $-catenin
15 phosphorylation (p<0.0001, Fig 18B). Increased $-catenin phosphorylation reduces 0
   catenin accumulation in the intercalated disks of cardiac myocytes and thereby reduces
   cardiac stiffness and diastolic dysfunction. This may contribute to our observation that
   UCn2 gene transfer increases LV relaxation in normal and failing hearts. Figure 18
   graphically illustrates that phosphorylation of both CREB (Fig. 18A) and 0-catenin (Fig.
20  18B) was detected in LV samples 4w after IV delivery of UCn2.CBA.UCn2. Control
   mice received IV saline.
            Non-Cardiac Effects of UCn2 Gene Transfer. IV delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2
   (5x 1011 gc) has a favorable effect on glucose metabolism-an anti-diabetic effect. For
   example, mice that received UCn2 gene transfer are resistant to hyperglycemia induced
25 by high fat diet (HFD), a model of Type 2 diabetes used in preclinical studies (Fig 19A).
   Reduced glucose levels are due to increased glucose utilization as seen in glucose
   tolerance testing of HFD-fed mice (Fig 19B). Figure 19 illustrates data showing UCn2
   affects glucose regulation. Mice received IV delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5 x 1011 gc,
   n=8) or saline (n=8), & standard chow for 3w. A small reduction in fasting blood glucose
30 was seen in the UCn2 group. Mice then received a high fat diet (HFD) for 8w.
   Hyperglycemia was seen in Controls, as expected, but UCn2 mice maintained normal
   blood glucose levels. Fig. 19B. Mice received IV delivery of AAV8.CBA.UCn2 (5 x
                                                     56

 WO 2013/123094                                                            PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                     PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   1011 gc, n=8) or saline (n=8) & HFD for 2 months & glucose tolerance tests conducted.
   Fasted mice received glucose (2 mg/g body weight, IP) and glucose levels measured.
   Results indicate that UCn2 gene transfer promotes glucose utilization and protects against
   diet-induced hyperglycemia.
 5         Figure 20 illustrates exemplary constructs of the invention: Abbreviations: ITR,
   inverted terminal repeat; TRE, tetracycline response element; SVpA, polyA from SV40
   viral genome (bidirectional); rtTA2SM2, reverse tetracycline controlled transactivator;
   SV40en, simian virus 40 enhancer; TBG Prom, thyroid hormone-binding globulin
   promoter; RSV Prom, Rous sarcoma virus promoter; FRB-p6, part of FRAP, a rapamycin
10 interacting protein, combined with a subunit of transcription factor NF-KB (p65); IRE,
   internal transcription reentry site; ZF, zinc finger HD 1 DNA binding domain; FKBP,
   FK506 binding protein; pA, minimal polyadenylation segment; ZBD, zinc finger HD
   DNA binding domain (8 copies).
15         References:
       1 Roger VL, Go AS, Lloyd-Jones DM, Benjamin EJ, Berry JD, Borden WB et al.
   Heart disease and stroke statistics--2012 update: a report from the American Heart
   Association. Circulation2012; 125: e2-e220. PMID: 22179539
       2 Nathwani AC, Tuddenham EG, Rangarajan S, Rosales C, McIntosh J, Linch DC
20 et al. Adenovirus-associated virus vector-mediated gene transfer in hemophilia B. NEngl
   JMed 2011; 365: 2357-2365. PMCID: PMC3265081
       3 Buchlis G, Podsakoff GM, Radu A, Hawk SM, Flake AW, Mingozzi F et al.
   Factor IX expression in skeletal muscle of a severe hemophilia B patient 10 years after
   AAV-mediated gene transfer. Blood 2012; in press. PMID: 22271447
25     4 Flotte TR, Trapnell BC, Humphries M, Carey B, Calcedo R, Rouhani F et al.
   Phase 2 clinical trial of a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector expressing alphal
   antitrypsin: interim results. Hum Gene Ther 2011; 22: 1239-1247. PMCID: PMC3205788
       5 Brantly ML, Spencer LT, Humphries M, Conlon TJ, Spencer CT, Poirier A et al.
   Phase I trial of intramuscular injection of a recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 2
30 alphal-antitrypsin (AAT) vector in AAT-deficient adults. Hum Gene Ther 2006; 17:
   1177-1186. PMID: 17115945
       6 De BP, Heguy A, Hackett NR, Ferris B, Leopold PL, Lee J et al. High levels of
   persistent expression of alphal-antitrypsin mediated by the nonhuman primate serotype
   rh.10 adeno-associated virus despite preexisting immunity to common human adeno
35 associated viruses. Mol Ther 2006; 13: 67-76. PMID: 16260185
       7 Gao GP, Lu Y, Sun X, Johnston J, Calcedo R, Grant R et al. High-level transgene
   expression in nonhuman primate liver with novel adeno-associated virus serotypes
   containing self-complementary genomes. J Virol 2006; 80: 6192-6194. PMCID:
   PMC1472562
40     8 Nathwani AC, Rosales C, McIntosh J, Rastegarlari G, Nathwani D, Raj D et al.
   Long-term safety and efficacy following systemic administration of a self-complementary
                                                      57

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                       PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   AAV vector encoding human FIX pseudotyped with serotype 5 and 8 capsid proteins.
   Mol Ther 2011; 19: 876-885. PMCID: PMC3098629
        9 Stieger K, Le Meur G, Lasne F, Weber M, Deschamps JY, Nivard D et al. Long
   term doxycycline-regulated transgene expression in the retina of nonhuman primates
 5 following subretinal injection of recombinant AAV vectors. Mol Ther 2006; 13: 967-975.
   PMID: 16442848
        10 Rivera VM, Gao GP, Grant RL, Schnell MA, Zoltick PW, Rozamus LW et al.
   Long-term pharmacologically regulated expression of erythropoietin in primates
   following AAV-mediated gene transfer. Blood 2005; 105: 1424-1430. PMID: 15507527
10      11 Lai NC, Tang T, Gao MH, Saito M, Miyanohara A, Hammond HK. Improved
   function of the failing rat heart by regulated expression of insulin-like growth factor I via
   intramuscular gene transfer. Hum Gene Ther 2012; 23: 255-261. PMID: 22017392
        12 Mingozzi F, Meulenberg JJ, Hui DJ, Basner-Tschakarjan E, Hasbrouck NC,
   Edmonson SA et al. AAV-1-mediated gene transfer to skeletal muscle in humans results
15 in dose-dependent activation of capsid-specific T cells. Blood 2009; 114: 2077-2086.
   PMCID: PMC2744569
        13 Manno CS, Pierce GF, Arruda VR, Glader B, Ragni M, Rasko JJ et al. Successful
   transduction of liver in hemophilia by AAV-Factor IX and limitations imposed by the
   host immune response. Nat Med 2006; 12: 342-347. PMID: 16474400
20      14 Hildinger M, Auricchio A, Gao G, Wang L, Chirmule N, Wilson JM. Hybrid
   vectors based on adeno-associated virus serotypes 2 and 5 for muscle-directed gene
   transfer. J Virol 2001; 75: 6199-6203. PMCID: PMC 114336
        15. Fang H, Lai NC, Gao MH, Miyanohara A, Roth DM, Tang T, Hammond HK.
   Comparison of adeno-associated virus serotypes and delivery methods for cardiac gene
25 transfer. Hum Gene Ther Methods 2012; Oct 17 [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 23075106
        16 Boutin S, Monteilhet V, Veron P, Leborgne C, Benveniste 0, Montus MF,
   Masurier C. Prevalence of serum IgG and neutralizing factors against adeno-associated
   virus (AAV) types 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, and 9 in the healthy population: implications for gene
   therapy using AAV vectors. Hum Gene Ther 21:704-712, 2010
30      17 Everett RS, Evans HK, Hodges BL, Ding EY, Serra DM, Amalfitano A. Strain
   specific rate of shutdown of CMV enhancer activity in murine liver confirmed by use of
   persistent [El(-), E2b(-)] adenoviral vectors. Virology 2004; 325: 96-105. PMID:
   15231389
        18 Hoppe UC, Marban E, Johns DC. Adenovirus-mediated inducible gene expression
35 in vivo by a hybrid ecdysone receptor. Mol Ther 2000; 1: 159-164. PMID: 10933926
        19 Sipo I, Wang X, Hurtado Pico A, Suckau L, Weger S, Poller W et al. Tamoxifen
   regulated adenoviral ElA chimeras for the control of tumor selective oncolytic
   adenovirus replication in vitro and in vivo. Gene Ther 2006; 13: 173-186. PMID:
    16136163
40     20 Goverdhana S, Puntel M, Xiong W, Zirger JM, Barcia C, Curtin JF et al.
   Regulatable gene expression systems for gene therapy applications: progress and future
   challenges. Mol Ther 2005; 12: 189-211. PMCID: PMC2676204
       21 Rivera VM, Clackson T, Natesan S, Pollock R, Amara JF, Keenan T et al. A
   humanized system for pharmacologic control of gene expression. Nat Med 1996; 2: 1028
45  1032. PMID: 8782462
       22 Stieger K, Belbellaa B, Le Guiner C, Moullier P, Rolling F. In vivo gene
   regulation using tetracycline-regulatable systems. Adv Drug Deliv Rev 2009; 61: 527-54 1.
   PMID: 19394373
                                                     58

 WO 2013/123094                                                            PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                     PATENT
                                                        0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
        23 Harrison DE, Strong R, Sharp ZD, Nelson JF, Astle CM, Flurkey K et al.
   Rapamycin fed late in life extends lifespan in genetically heterogeneous mice. Nature
   2009; 460: 392-395. PMCID: PMC2786175
        24 Villarreal FJ, Griffin M, Omens J, Dillmann W, Nguyen J, Covell J. Early short
 5 term treatment with doxycycline modulates postinfarction left ventricular remodeling.
   Circulation2003; 108: 1487-1492.
        25 Lai NC, Tang T, Gao MH, Saito M, Takahashi T, Roth DM et al. Activation of
   cardiac adenylyl cyclase expression increases function of the failing ischemic heart in
   mice. JAm Coll Cardiol2008; 51: 1490-1497. PMID: 18402905
10      26 Stieger K, Mendes-Madeira A, Meur GL, Weber M, Deschamps JY, Nivard D et
   al. Oral administration of doxycycline allows tight control of transgene expression: a key
   step towards gene therapy of retinal diseases. Gene Ther 2007; 14: 1668-1673. PMID:
   17914405
        27 Goverdhana S, Puntel M, Xiong W, Zirger JM, Barcia C, Curtin JF, Soffer EB,
15 Mondkar S, King GD, Hu J, Sciascia SA, Candolfi M, Greengold DS, Lowenstein PR,
   Castro MG. Regulatable gene expression systems for gene therapy applications: progress
   and future challenges. Mol Ther 12: 189-211, 2005
        28 Gao MH, Bayat H, Roth DM, Yao Zhou J, Drumm J, Burhan J et al. Controlled
   expression of cardiac-directed adenylylcyclase type VI provides increased contractile
20 function. CardiovascRes 2002; 56: 197-204. PMID: 12393090
        29 Tang T, Hammond HK, Firth A, Yang Y, Gao MH, Yuan JXJ, Lai NC. Adenylyl
   cyclase 6 improves calcium uptake and LV function in aged heart. JAm Coll Cardiol
   2011; 57: 1846-1855. PMID:21527140
        30 Urlinger S, Baron U, Thellmann M, Hasan MT, Bujard H, Hillen W. Exploring
25 the sequence space for tetracycline-dependent transcriptional activators: novel mutations
   yield expanded range and sensitivity. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97:7963-7968, 2000
        31 Rolain JM, Mallet MN, Raoult D. Correlation between serum doxycycline
   concentrations and serologic evolution in patients with Coxiella burnetii endocarditis. J
   Infect Dis 2003; 188: 1322-1325. PMID: 14593588
30      32 Berman B, Perez OA, Zell D. Update on rosacea and anti-inflammatory-dose
   doxycycline. Drugs Today (Barc) 2007; 43: 27-34. PMID: 17315050
        33 Herzog RW, Hagstrom JN, Kung SH, Tai SJ, Wilson JM, Fisher KJ et al. Stable
   gene transfer and expression of human blood coagulation factor IX after intramuscular
   injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus. Proc NatlAcad Sci USA 1997; 94:
35 5804-5809. PMCID: PMC20861
        34 Minniti G, Muni R, Lanzetta G, Marchetti P, Enrici RM. Chemotherapy for
   glioblastoma: current treatment and future perspectives for cytotoxic and targeted agents.
   AnticancerRes 2009; 29: 5171-5184. PMID: 20044633
        35 Zoncu R, Efeyan A, Sabatini DM. mTOR: from growth signal integration to
40 cancer, diabetes and ageing. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2011; 12: 21-35. PMID: 21157483
        36 Yang W, Digits CA, Hatada M, Narula S, Rozamus LW, Huestis CM et al.
   Selective epimerization of rapamycin via a retroaldol/aldol mechanism mediated by
   titanium tetraisopropoxide. Org Lett 1999; 1: 2033-2035. PMID: 10905864
        37 Abraham RT, Wiederrecht GJ. Immunopharmacology of rapamycin. Annu Rev
45 Immunol 1996; 14: 483-510. PMID: 8717522
        38 Davidson SM, Rybka AE, Townsend PA. The powerful cardioprotective effects of
   urocortin and the corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) family. Biochem Pharmacol.
   2009; 77:141-150. PMID: 18817752
                                                    59

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                     PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
        39 Perrin MH, Vale WW. Corticotropin releasing factor receptors and their ligand
   family. Ann N YAcad Sci. 1999; 885:312-328. PMID: 10816663
        40 Eckart K, Radulovic J, Radulovic M, Jahn 0, Blank T, Stiedl 0, Spiess J. Actions
   of CRF and its analogs. CurrMed Chem. 1999; 6:1035-1053. PMID: 10519912
 5      41 Wiley KE, Davenport AP. CRF2 receptors are highly expressed in the human
   cardiovascular system and their cognate ligands urocortins 2 and 3 are potent
   vasodilators. Br JPharmacol2004; 143:508-514. PMCID: PMC 1575420
        42 Imperatore A, Florio P, Torres PB, Torricelli M, Galleri L, Toti P, Occhini R,
   Picciolini E, Vale W, Petraglia F. Urocortin 2 and urocortin 3 are expressed by the human
10 placenta, deciduas, and fetal membranes. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2006; 195:288-295.
   PMID: 16626608
        43 Boorse GC, Denver RJ. Widespread tissue distribution and diverse functions of
   corticotropin-releasing factor and related peptides. Gen Comp Endocrinol.2006; 146:9
    18. PMID: 16413023
15      44 Wiley KE, Davenport AP. CRF2 receptors are highly expressed in the human
   cardiovascular system and their cognate ligands urocortins 2 and 3 are potent
   vasodilators. Br J Pharmacol 143:508-514, 2004
        45 Singh LK, Boucher W, Pang X, Letourneau R, Seretakis D, Green M, Theoharides
   TC. Potent mast cell degranulation and vascular permeability triggered by urocortin
20 through activation of corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors. JPharmacolExp Ther.
    1999; 288:1349-1356. PMID: 10027877
        46 Emeto TI, Moxon JV, Rush C, Woodward L, Golledge J. Relevance of urocortins
   to cardiovascular disease. JMol Cell Cardiol.2011; 51:299-307. PMID: 21689660
        47 Hauger RL, Grigoriadis DE, Dallman MF, Plotsky PM, Vale WW, Dautzenberg
25 FM.,. International Union of Pharmacology. XXXVI. Current status of the nomenclature
   for receptors for corticotropin-releasing factor and their ligands. Pharmacol.Rev. 2003;
   55:21-26. PMID: 12615952
        48 Perrin MH, Donaldson CJ, Chen R, Lewis KA, Vale WW. Cloning and functional
   expression of a rat brain corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) receptor. Endocrinology.
30  1993; 133:3058-3061. PMID: 8243338
        49 Hinkle RT, Donnelly E, Cody DB, Bauer MB, Isfort RJ. Urocortin II treatment
   reduces skeletal muscle mass and function loss during atrophy and increases
   nonatrophying skeletal muscle mass and function. Endocrinology 144: 4939-4946, 2003
        50 Davis ME, Pemberton CJ, Yandle TG, Fisher SF, Lainchbury JG, Frampton CM,
35 Rademaker MT, Richards AM. Urocortin 2 infusion in healthy humans: hemodynamic,
   neurohormonal, and renal responses. J Am Coll Cardiol. 30:461-741, 2007
        51 Davis ME, Pemberton CJ, Yandle TG, Fisher SF, Lainchbury JG, Frampton CM,
   Rademaker MT, Richards M. Urocortin 2 infusion in human heart failure. Eur Heart J 28:
   2589-2597, 2007
40      52 Bale TL, Hoshijima M, Gu Y, Dalton N, Anderson KR, Lee KF, Rivier J, Chien
   KR, Vale WW, Peterson KL. The cardiovascular physiologic actions of urocortin II:
   acute effects in murine heart failure. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101:3697-3702, 2004
        53 Yang LZ, Kockskamper J, Khan S, Suarez J, Walther S, Doleschal B, Unterer G,
   Khafaga M, Machler H, Heinzel FR, Dillmann WH, Pieske B, Spiess J. cAMP- and
45 Ca 2 /calmodulin-dependent protein kinases mediate inotropic, lusitropic and
   arrhythmogenic effects of urocortin 2 in mouse ventricular myocytes. Br J Pharmacol
    162:544-56, 2011
                                                     60

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                     PATENT
                                                         0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
       54 Meili-Butz S, Blhler K, John D, Buser P, Vale WW, Peterson KL, Brink M,
   Dieterle T. Acute effects of urocortin 2 on cardiac function and propensity for
   arrhythmias in an animal model of hypertension-induced left ventricular hypertrophy and
   heart failure. Eur J Heart Fail. 12:797-804, 2010
 5     55 Brar BK, Jonassen AK, Stephanou A, Santilli G, Railson J, Knight RA,Yellon
   DM, Latchman DS. Urocortin protects against ischemic and reperfusion injury via a
   MAPK-dependent pathway. J Biol Chem 275:8508-8514, 2000
       56 Brar BK, Jonassen AK, Egorina EM, Chen A, Negro A, Perrin MH, Mjos OD,
   Latchman DS, Lee KF, Vale W. Urocortin-II and urocortin-Ill are cardioprotective
10 against ischemia reperfusion injury: an essential endogenous cardioprotective role for
   corticotropin releasing factor receptor type 2 in the murine heart. Endocrinology 145:24
   35, 2004
       57 Barry SP, Lawrence KM, McCormick J, Soond SM, Hubank M, Eaton S,
   Sivarajah A, Scarabelli TM, Knight RA, Thiemermann C, Latchman DS, Townsend PA,
15 Stephanou A. New targets of urocortin-mediated cardioprotection. J Mol Endocrinol 45:
   69-85, 2010
       58 Rademaker MT, Charles CJ, Espiner EA, Fisher S, Frampton CM, Kirkpatrick
   CM, Lainchbury JG, Nicholls MG, Richards AM, Vale WW. Beneficial hemodynamic,
   endocrine, and renal effects of urocortin in experimental heart failure: comparison with
20 normal sheep. J Am Coll Cardiol 40:1495-1505, 2002
       59 Miriam T, Rademaker MT, Charles CJ, Nicholls MG, Richards AM. Urocortin 2
   inhibits furosemide-induced activation of renin and enhances renal function and diuretic
   responsiveness in experimental heart failure. Circ Heart Fail 2: 532-540, 2009
       60 Tang WHW, Francis GS. Exploring new drugs for heart failure: the case of
25 urocortin. Eur Heart J 28: 2561-2562, 2007
       61 Haurigot V, Mingozzi F, Buchlis G, Hui DJ, Chen Y, Basner-Tschakarjan E,
   Arruda VR, Radu A, Franck HG, Wright JF, Zhou S, Stedman HH, Bellinger DA,
   Nichols TC, High KA. Safety of AAV factor IX peripheral transvenular gene delivery to
   muscle in hemophilia B dogs. Mol Ther 18:1318-1329, 2010
30     62 Roth DA, McKirnan MD, Canestrelli I, Gao MH, Dalton N, Lai NC, Roth DM,
   Hammond HK. Intracoronary delivery of an adenovirus encoding fibroblast growth
   factor-4 in myocardial ischemia: effect of serum antibodies and previous exposure to
   adenovirus. Human Gene Ther 17:230-238, 2006
       63 Kaspar BK, Roth DM, Lai NC, Drumm JD, Erickson DA, McKirnan MD,
35 Hammond HK. Myocardial gene transfer and long-term expression following
   intracoronary delivery of AAV. J Gene Med 7: 316-324, 2005.
           A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless, it
40 will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the
   spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of
   the following claims.
                                                     61

 WO 2013/123094                                                              PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                        PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
            1.      A method for treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) an
   individual or a patient against a disease, an infection or a condition responsive to an
   increased or sustained peptide or paracrine polypeptide level in vivo comprising:
 5         (a) (i) providing a paracrine polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively
   linked to a transcriptional regulatory sequence; or an expression vehicle, a vector, a
   recombinant virus, or equivalent, having contained therein a paracrine-encoding nucleic
   acid or gene, or a paracrine polypeptide-expressing nucleic acid, transcript or message,
   and the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent can express the
10 paracrine-encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message in a cell or in vivo; and
           (ii) administering or delivering the paracrine polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid,
   gene, transcript or message operatively linked to a transcriptional regulatory sequence, or
   the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, to the cell, or an
   individual or a patient in need thereof,
15         thereby treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the individual or patient
   against the disease, infection or condition responsive to an increased or a sustained
   paracrine polypeptide level;
           (b) the method of (a), wherein the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
   or equivalent is or comprises:
20         an adeno-associated virus (AAV), a lentiviral vector or an adenovirus vector,
           an AAV serotype AAV5, AAV6, AAV8 or AAV9,
           a rhesus-derived AAV, or the rhesus-derived AAV AAVrh. 1OhCLN2,
           an AAV capsid mutant or AAV hybrid serotype,
           an organ-tropic AAV, or a cardiotropic AAV, or a cardiotropic AAVM41 mutant,
25         wherein optionally the AAV is engineered to increase efficiency in targeting a
   specific cell type that is non-permissive to a wild type (wt) AAV and/or to improve
   efficacy in infecting only a cell type of interest,
           and optionally the hybrid AAV is retargeted or engineered as a hybrid serotype by
   one or more modifications comprising: 1) a transcapsidation, 2) adsorption of a bi
30 specific antibody to a capsid surface, 3) engineering a mosaic capsid, and/or 4)
   engineering a chimeric capsid;
                                                       62

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
           (c) the method of (a), wherein the paracrine-encoding nucleic acid, gene,
   transcript or message is operatively linked to a regulated or inducible transcriptional
   regulatory sequence;
           (d) the method of (c), wherein the regulated or inducible transcriptional regulatory
 5 sequence is a regulated or inducible promoter,
           wherein optionally a positive (an activator) and/or a negative (a repressor)
   modulator of transcription and/or translation is operably linked to the paracrine
   polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message;
           (e) the method of any of (a) to (d), wherein administering the paracrine
10 polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid, gene, transcript or message operatively linked to a
   transcriptional regulatory sequence, or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
   or equivalent, to an individual or a patient in need thereof results in a paracrine protein
   being released into the bloodstream or general circulation, or an increased or sustained
   expression of the paracrine protein in the cell,
15         wherein optionally the release or increased or sustained expression of the
   paracrine protein is dependent on activation of an inducible promoter, or de-repression of
   a repressor, operably linked to the paracrine polypeptide -encoding nucleic acid, gene,
   transcript or message; or
           (f) the method of any of (a) to (e), wherein the disease, infection or condition
20 responsive to an increased paracrine polypeptide level in vivo is a cardiac contractile
   dysfunction; a congestive heart failure (CHF); a cardiac fibrosis; a cardiac myocyte
   disease, dysfunction or apoptosis; a pulmonary hypertension; a heart, skin, liver, lung,
   muscle, nerve, brain or kidney disease, cancer or dysfunction; a cancer or a neoplasia; or,
   a hemophilia or a Hemophilia B.
25
           2.      The method of claim 1, wherein:
           (a) the paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively linked to the
   transcriptional regulatory sequence; or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
   or equivalent, is administered or delivered to the individual or a patient in need thereof,
30 by oral, intramuscular (IM) injection, by intravenous (IV) injection, by subcutaneous (SC)
   or intradermal injection, by intrathecal injection, by intra-arterial (IA) injection, by
   intracoronary injection, by inhalation, by aerosol, or by a biolistic particle delivery
                                                     63

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   system, or by using a "gene gun", air pistol or a HELIOSTM gene gun (Bio-Rad
   Laboratories, Hercules, CA); or
            (b) the paracrine-encoding nucleic acid or gene operatively linked to the
   transcriptional regulatory sequence; or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus,
 5 or equivalent, is administered or delivered to the individual or a patient in need thereof,
   by introduction into any tissue or fluid space within the body that is adjacent to or is
   drained by the bloodstream, such that the encoded protein may be secreted from cells in
   the tissue and released into the bloodstream.
10          3.       The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the paracrine polypeptide or
   peptide is or comprises: a mammalian cardiotonic peptide, a growth factor, a Serelaxin, a
   Relaxin-2, a Urocortin-2 (UCn-2), a Urocortin-1 (UCn-1), a Urocortin-3 (UCn-3), a Brain
   Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like Growth
   Factor-1, or any combination thereof; or, a human cardiotonic peptide, a human growth
15 factor, a Serelaxin, a Relaxin-2, a Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-3, a Brain
   Natriuretic Peptide, a Prostacyclin Synthase, a Growth Hormone, an Insulin-like Growth
   Factor-11, or any combination thereof.
           4.        The method of claim 3, wherein the paracrine polypeptide is a Urocortin, a
20 Urocortin-2, a Urocortin-1, a Urocortin-3, a Relaxin-2 or a Brain Natriuretic Peptide and
   the disease or condition is a congestive heart failure (CHF); or the paracrine polypeptide
   is Prostacyclin Synthase and the disease or condition a pulmonary hypertension.
            5.       The method of any of claims I to 4, wherein:
25          (a) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   induces expression of the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or induces or
   activates a promoter (e.g., operably linked to the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or
   gene) that induces expression of the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene;
            (b) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
30 induces synthesis of an activator of a promoter, optionally a paracrine-expressing nucleic
   acid or gene-specific promoter (e.g., operably linked to the paracrine-expressing nucleic
   acid or gene);
                                                       64

 WO 2013/123094                                                               PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                         PATENT
                                                          0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
           (c) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   induces synthesis of a natural or a synthetic activator of the paracrine-expressing nucleic
   acid or gene or the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene-specific promoter,
           wherein optionally the natural activator is an endogenous transcription factor;
 5         (d) the method of (c), wherein the synthetic activator is a zinc-finger DNA binding
   protein designed to specifically and selectively turn on an endogenous or exogenous
   target gene, wherein optionally the endogenous target is a gene paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or an activator of a paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or an
   activator of a promoter operatively linked to a paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene;
10         (e) the method of any of (a) to (c), wherein the stimulus or signal comprises a
   biologic, a light, a chemical or a pharmaceutical stimulus or signal;
           (f) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   stimulates or induces expression of a post-transcriptional activator of a paracrine
   expressing nucleic acid or gene, or an activator of a promoter operatively linked to a
15 paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or
           (g) the individual, patient or subject is administered a stimulus or signal that
   inhibits or induces inhibition of a transcriptional repressor or a post-transcriptional
   repressor of a paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene.
20         6.       The method of claim 5, wherein the chemical or pharmaceutical that
   induces expression of the paracrine-expressing nucleic acid or gene, or induces
   expression of the regulated or inducible promoter operatively linked to the paracrine
   expressing nucleic acid or gene, is an oral antibiotic, a doxycycline or a rapamycin; or a
   tet-regulation system using doxycycline is used to induce expression of the paracrine
25 expressing nucleic acid or gene, or an equivalent thereof.
           7.       The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, is
   formulated in a liquid, a gel, a hydrogel, a powder or an aqueous or a saline formulation.
30
                                                       65

 WO 2013/123094                                                                 PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                           PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            8.     The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, is
   formulated in a vesicle, liposome, nanoparticle or nanolipid particle (NLP).
 5          9.     The method of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, is
   formulated in an isolated or cultured cell, and optionally the cell is a mammalian cell, a
   cardiac cell, or a human cell, a non-human primate cell, a monkey cell, a mouse cell, a rat
   cell, a guinea pig cell, a rabbit cell, a hamster cell, a goat cell, a bovine cell, an equine
10 cell, an ovine cell, a canine cell or a feline cell.
             10.   The method of any of claims I to 8, wherein the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, is
   formulated as a pharmaceutical or sterile.
15
             11.   The method of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent, is
   formulated or delivered with, on, or in conjunction with a product of manufacture, an
   artificial organ or an implant.
20
             12.   The method of any of claims I to 11, wherein the paracrine-expressing
   nucleic acid or gene or the expression vehicle, vector, recombinant virus, or equivalent
   expresses a paracrine polypeptide in vitro or ex vivo.
25           13.   A method for treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) an
   individual or a patient against a paracrine-responsive pathology, infection, disease,
   illness, or condition, comprising practicing the method of any of claims 1 to 12.
             14.   A method for treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) a cardiac
30 contractile dysfunction; a congestive heart failure (CHF); a cardiac fibrosis; a cardiac
   myocyte disease, dysfunction or apoptosis; a pulmonary hypertension; a heart, skin, liver,
   lung, muscle, nerve, brain or kidney disease, cancer or dysfunction; a cancer or a
                                                        66

 WO 2013/123094                                                             PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                      PATENT
                                                           0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
   neoplasia; or, a hemophilia or a Hemophilia B, comprising practicing the method of any
   of claims I to 12.
            15.     A method of treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) diabetes or
 5 pre-diabetes in a patient or an individual comprising:
            (a) practicing the method of any of claims I to 12, wherein the paracrine
   polypeptide or peptide comprises or consists of a urocortin-2 (UCn-2); and
            (b) administering a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, or a nucleic acid,
   gene, message or transcript encoding a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) to an individual or patient in
10 need thereof,
           wherein optionally the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide is an isolated, a
   recombinant, a synthetic and/or a peptidomimetic peptide or polypeptide or variant
   thereof,
           thereby treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the diabetes or pre
15 diabetes in the patient or individual.
            16.     A method of treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) obesity in a
   patient or an individual comprising:
            (a) practicing the method of any of claims I to 12, wherein the paracrine
20 polypeptide or peptide comprises or consists of a urocortin-2 (UCn-2); and
            (b) administering a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, or a nucleic acid,
   gene, message or transcript encoding a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) to an individual or patient in
   need thereof,
           wherein optionally the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide is an isolated, a
25 recombinant, a synthetic and/or a peptidomimetic peptide or polypeptide or variant
   thereof,
           thereby treating, ameliorating or protecting (preventing) the obesity in the patient
   or individual.
30          17.     A method of suppressing weight gain, or suppressing the appetite, or
   stimulating or initiating weight loss, in a patient or an individual comprising:
                                                      67

 WO 2013/123094                                                                PCT/US2013/025997
                                                                                          PATENT
                                                            0001 5-208WO1/SD2012-21 0-PCT
            (a) practicing the method of any of claims I to 12, wherein the paracrine
   polypeptide or peptide comprises or consists of a urocortin-2 (UCn-2); and
            (b) administering a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide, or a nucleic acid,
   gene, message or transcript encoding a urocortin-2 (UCn-2) to an individual or patient in
 5 need thereof,
            wherein optionally the urocortin-2 (UCn-2) peptide or polypeptide is an isolated, a
   recombinant, a synthetic and/or a peptidomimetic peptide or polypeptide or variant
   thereof,
            thereby suppressing weight gain, or suppressing the appetite, or stimulating or
10 initiating weight loss, in the patient or individual.
             18.    The method of any of claims 15 to 17, wherein the urocortin-2 (UCn-2)
   peptide or polypeptide is formulated in or as a vesicle, liposome, nanoparticle or
   nanolipid particle (NLP), or is formulated for: oral administration, intramuscular (IM)
15 injection, intravenous (IV) injection, subcutaneous (SC) or intradermal injection,
   intrathecal injection, intra-arterial (IA) injection, intracoronary injection, inhalation, or
   administration by aerosol.
                                                       68

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
