   1002022957
                                          ABSTRACT
            Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods, software, devices
   and APIs for defining touch events for application level software. Furthermore, some
   embodiments are directed to simplifying the recognition of single and multiple touch
 5 events for applications running in multi-touch enabled devices. To simplify the
   recognition of single and multiple touch events, each view within a particular window
   can be configured as either a multi-touch view or a single touch view. Furthermore, each
   view can be configured as either an exclusive or a non-exclusive view. Depending on the
   configuration of a view, touch events in that and other views can be either ignored or
10 recognized. Ignored touches need not be sent to the application. Selectively ignoring
   touches can allow for simpler software elements that do not take advantage of advanced
   multi touch features to be executed at the same device and time as more complex
   software elements.

1002022957
                             TOUCH EVENT MODEL
                                       Technical Field
[0001]          This relates to multi-point and multi-touch enabled devices in general, and
more specifically to recognizing single and multiple point and touch events in multi-point
and multi-touch enabled devices.
                                    Related Applications
[0001A]         This application is related to Australian Patent Application No.
2009200493, filed on 9 February 2009, the contents of which are incorporated herein in
their entirety.
                                         Background
[0002]          A multi-touch enabled device is a device that can sense multiple touches at
the same time. Thus, a multi-touch enabled device can, for example, sense two touch
events that take place simultaneously at two different positions on a multi-touch panel
and are caused by two fingers being pressed down on the panel. Examples of multi-touch
enabled devices are discussed in U.S. Pat. Application No. 11/649,998 (published by the
United States Patent & Trademark Office as US 2008-0158172 Al), entitled
"PROXIMITY AND MULTI-TOUCH SENSOR DETECTION AND
DEMODULATION," filed on January 3, 2007, and hereby incorporated by reference in
its entirety. Multi-point enabled devices define a more general set of devices that include
multi-touch enabled devices as well as similar devices such as the multi-proximity sensor
devices discussed in U.S. Pat. Application No. 11/649,998 mentioned above.
[0003]          While the benefits of multi-touch enabled interfaces are known, these
devices can present some interface design challenges. Existing interface design
                                               1

1002022957
conventions have assumed a single pointing user input device that specifies a single
location at a time. Examples include a mouse or a touch pad.
[0004]            More specifically, many existing graphical user interface (GUI) systems
provide user interfaces in which various portions of a display are associated with separate
software elements. Thus, for example, portions of a display can be associated with a
window, and the window can be associated with a specific software application and/or
process. A mouse can be used to interact with the window and the application or process
associated with that window. The mouse cursor can then be moved to another window to
interact with another application or process. Because only a single pointing device is
used, interaction with only a single window and application or process can occur at a
time.
[0005]            The assumption of a single interaction with a window at any one time can
greatly simplify user interface design. The application and/or process running within a
window can operate under the assumption that a detected interaction with that particular
window is the only input being received. Thus, the application and/or process need not
concern itself with the possibility of other user interactions occurring in other portions of
the display outside that window. Furthermore, a window can be additionally partitioned
into various elements, wherein each element is associated with a specific portion of the
window. Each element can be implemented by a separate software element (e.g., a
software object). Again, each software object can process interactions that occur in its
associated area without concerning itself with interactions that may be simultaneously
occurring elsewhere.
[0006]            On the other hand, if a multi-touch interface is being used, two or more
touch events can simultaneously occur at different portions of the display. This can make
it difficult to split the display into different portions and have different independent
software elements process interactions associated with each portion. Furthermore, even if
the display is split up into different portions, multiple touch events can occur in a single
portion. Therefore, a single application, process or other software element may need to
process multiple simultaneous touch events. However, if each application, process or
                                                  2

1002022957
other software element needs to consider multiple touch interactions, then the overall cost
and complexity of software running at the multi-touch enabled device may be undesirably
high. More specifically, each application may need to process large amounts of incoming
touch data. This can require high complexity in applications of seemingly simple
functionality, and can make programming for a multi-touch enabled device generally
difficult and expensive. Also, existing software that assumes a single pointing device can
be very difficult to convert or port to a version that can operate on a multi-point or a
multi-touch enabled device.
[00071          Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art
could reasonably be expected to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a
person skilled in the art.
                                           Summary
[0008]          According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computer readable storage medium, storing one or more programs for execution by a
multi-touch device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. The one or more
programs including instructions that when executed by the multi-touch device cause the
multi-touch device to: display a user interface including a plurality of views, each view
corresponding to a respective portion of the user interface, the plurality of views
including a first view and a second view; execute one or more software elements, each
software element being associated with a particular view; receive at least one touch in the
first view, wherein the first view is associated with a software element of said one or
more software elements; and in response to receiving the at least one touch in the first
view, send at least one touch event describing a touch received in the first view to the
software element associated with the first view; while receiving the at least one touch in
the first view: receive at least one touch in the second view; and in response to receiving
the at least one touch in the second view: in accordance with a determination that the first
view is an exclusive-touch view in the sense that the first view does not allow software
                                               3

1002022957
elements associated with other views to receive touch events while the first view is
receiving a touch, ignore, with respect to the second view, the at least one touch received
in the second view; and in accordance with a determination that the first view is not an
exclusive-touch view in the sense that the first view allows software elements associated
with other views to receive touch events while the first view is receiving a touch, provide
at least one touch event describing a touch received in the second view to a software
element associated with the second view.
[0009]          According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method for handling touch events at a multi-touch device. The method includes
displaying a user interface including a plurality of views, each view corresponding to a
respective portion of the user interface, the plurality of views including a first view and a
second view; executing one or more software elements, each software element being
associated with a particular view; receiving at least one touch in the first view, wherein
the first view is associated with a software element of said one or more software
elements; and in response to receiving the at least one touch in the first view, sending at
least one touch event describing a touch received in the first view to the software element
associated with the first view; while receiving the at least one touch in the first view:
receiving at least one touch in the second view; and in response to receiving the at least
one touch in the second view: in accordance with a determination that the first view is an
exclusive-touch view in the sense that the first view does not allow software elements
associated with other views to receive touch events while the first view is receiving a
touch, ignoring, with respect to the second view, the at least one touch received in the
second view; and in accordance with a determination that the first view is not an
exclusive-touch view in the sense that the first view allows software elements associated
with other views to receive touch events while the first view is receiving a touch,
providing at least one touch event describing a touch received in the second view to a
software element associated with the second view.
[0010]          According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
multi-touch device, comprising one or more processors; memory; a display; and a touch
sensitive surface. The memory stores one or more programs for execution by the one or
                                               4

1002022957
more processors. The one or more programs include instructions that when executed by
the one or more processors cause the multi-touch device to: display, on the display, a user
interface including a plurality of views, each view corresponding to a respective portion
of the user interface, the plurality of views including a first view and a second view;
execute one or more software elements, each software element being associated with a
particular view; receive, with the touch-sensitive surface, at least one touch in the first
view, wherein the first view is associated with a software element of said one or more
software elements; and in response to receiving the at least one touch in the first view,
send at least one touch event describing a touch received in the first view to the software
element associated with the first view; while receiving the at least one touch in the first
view: receive at least one touch in the second view; and in response to receiving the at
least one touch in the second view: in accordance with a determination that the first view
is an exclusive-touch view in the sense that the first view does not allow software
elements associated with other views to receive touch events while the first view is
receiving a touch, ignore, with respect to the second view, the at least one touch received
in the second view; and in accordance with a determination that the first view is not an
exclusive-touch view in the sense that the first view allows software elements associated
with other views to receive touch events while the first view is receiving a touch, provide
at least one touch event describing a touch received in the second view to a software
element associated with the second view.
[0011]          Also provided is a method for recognizing point events at a multi-point
device. The method comprising displaying one or more views and executing one or more
software elements, with each software element being associated with a particular view.
The method further comprises associating a multi-point flag or an exclusive point flag
with each view, receiving one or more point inputs at the one or more views, and
selectively sending one or more point events, with each point event describing a received
point input, to one or more of the software elements associated with views at which a
point input was received based on the values of the multi-point and exclusive point flags.
[0012]          The multi-point device may be a multi-touch device.
                                               5

1002022957
[00131          There is also provided a method for recognizing one or more touch events
at a multi-touch device, comprising defining one or more views, assigning an exclusive
touch or a multi-touch flag to each view, and accepting one or more touch events detected
in each view in accordance with the exclusive touch or multi-touch flag for each view.
[0014]          A computer readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions
configured for execution at a multi-point device is also provided. The instructions are
configured to cause the multi-point device to display one or more views and execute one
or more software elements, each software element being associated with a particular
view. The instructions are also configured to cause the multi-point device to associate a
multi-point flag or an exclusive point flag with each view, receive one or more point
inputs at the one or more views, and selectively send one or more point events, each point
event describing a received point input, to one or more of the software elements
associated with views at which a point input was received based on the values of the
multi-point and exclusive point flags.
[0015]          There is also provided a multi-touch enabled mobile telephone including a
computer readable medium as described above and configured for execution at the
mobile telephone. There is also provided a multi-touch enabled digital media player
including a computer readable medium as described above and configured for execution
at the mobile digital media player.
[0016]          According to another embodiment, there is provided a computer readable
medium comprising a plurality of instructions configured for execution at a multi-point
device, the instructions being configured to cause the multi-point device to define one or
more views, assign an exclusive point or a multi-point flag to each view; and accept one
or more point events detected in each view in accordance with the exclusive point or
multi-point flag for each view.
[00171          According to another embodiment, there is provided a method for
recognizing one or more point events at a multi- point device, comprising defining one or
more views, assigning an exclusive point or a multi- point flag to each view, and
                                             6

1002022957
accepting one or more point events detected in each view in accordance with the
exclusive point or multi- point flag for each view.
[0018]          According to another embodiment, there is provided a computer readable
medium comprising a touch data structure defining a state, at a particular time, of a single
touch having been or being received at a multi-touch panel. The touch data structure
comprises a phase field defining the phase of the touch at the particular time, a view field
indicating the view in which the touch was or is being received, and a location field
indicating the location where the touch is currently being received.
[0019]          According to another embodiment, there is provided a device comprising a
multi touch panel and a computer readable medium comprising a touch data structure
defining a state, at a particular time, of a single touch having been or being received at
the multi-touch panel. The touch data structure comprises a phase field defining the phase
of the touch at the particular time, a view field indicating the view in which the touch was
or is being received, and a location field indicating the location where the touch is
currently being received.
[0020]          According to another embodiment, there is provided a method for
operating a multi touch enabled device comprising executing a software element
representing a view, the software element displaying a visual representation of the view
at a display, detecting a touch at a multi touch panel, and generating a data structure for
defining a state of the touch at a particular time. The data structure comprises a phase
field defining the phase of the touch at the particular time, a view field indicating the
view in which the touch was or is being received, a location field indicating the location
where the touch is currently being received.
[0021]          According to another embodiment, there is provided in an environment
with a device having a display and a multi touch panel and application software
interacting with user interface software, a method for operating through an application
programming interface (API), comprising detecting a touch at the multi touch panel and
generating a data structure for defining a state of the touch at a particular time. The data
structure comprises a phase field defining the phase of the touch at the particular time, a
                                                7

1002022957
view field indicating the view in which the touch was or is being received, and a location
field indicating the location where the touch is currently being received. The method
further comprises sending the data structure to the application software by the user
interface software.
[0022]          Embodiments are directed to methods, software, devices and APIs for
defining touch events for application level software. Furthermore, some embodiments are
directed to simplifying the recognition of single and multiple touch events for
applications running in multi-touch enabled devices. To simplify the recognition of
single and multiple touch events, each view within a particular window can be configured
as either a multi-touch view or a single touch view. Furthermore, each view can be
configured as either an exclusive or a non-exclusive view. Depending on the
configuration of a view, touch events in that and other views can be either ignored or
recognized. Ignored touches need not be sent to the application. Selectively ignoring
touches can allow for simpler applications or software elements that do not take
advantage of advanced multi touch features to be executed at the same device (and even
at the same time) as more complex applications or software elements.
[0023]          Further embodiments described in the preceding paragraphs and additional
aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description.
[0024]          As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
"comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and
"comprised", are not intended to exclude further additives, components, integers or steps.
                              Brief Description of the Drawings
[0025]          Fig. 1 is a diagram of an input/output processing stack of an exemplary
multi-touch capable device according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0026]          Figs. 2A is a diagram of an exemplary multi-touch enabled device
according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                               8

1002022957
[00271           Figs. 2B is a diagram of another exemplary multi-touch enabled device
according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0028]           Fig. 3 is a diagram of an exemplary multi-touch display according to one
embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0029]           Fig. 4 is a flow chart showing an exemplary method of operation of the
multi-touch flag according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0030]           Figs. 5A and 5B are flowcharts showing an exemplary method of
operation of the exclusive touch flag according to one embodiment of the present
disclosure.
                                      Detailed Description
[0031]           In the following description of preferred embodiments, reference is made
to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof, and in which it is shown by way
of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be
understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made
without departing from the scope of the preferred embodiments of the present invention.
[0032]           This relates to a touch event model that simplifies the recognition of single
and multiple touch events for user interface applications running in multi-point and multi
touch enabled devices. To simplify the recognition of single and multiple touch events,
each view within a particular window can be configured as either a multi-touch view or a
single touch view. Furthermore, each view can be configured as either an exclusive or a
non-exclusive view. Depending on the configuration of a view, touch events in that and
other views can be either ignored or recognized.
[0033]           Although embodiments of the present invention may be described and
illustrated herein in terms of specific multi-touch capable devices, it should be
understood that embodiments of the present invention are not limited to such devices, but
is generally applicable to any multi-touch capable device. Furthermore, embodiments of
                                               9

1002022957
the invention are not limited to multi-touch devices but also include multi-point devices,
such as multi proximity sensor devices as discussed in U.S. Application No. 11/649,998,
mentioned above.
[0034]          Some embodiments are related to APIs. In general, an API is a source
code interface that a computer system provides in order to support requests for services
from a software operation. An API is specified in terms of a program language that can
be interpreted or compiled when a system is built, rather than an explicit low level
description of how data is laid out in memory. The software that provides the
functionality of an API is said to be an implementation of the API. Various devices such
as computer systems, electronic devices, portable devices and handheld devices have
software applications. The device interfaces between the software applications and user
interface software to provide a user of the device with certain features and operations.
[0035]          At least some embodiments of the invention can include one or more APIs
in an environment with user interface software interacting with a software application.
Various function calls or messages are transferred via the APIs between the user interface
software and the software applications. Transferring the function calls or messages may
include issuing, initiating, invoking or receiving the function calls or messages. Example
APIs can include sending touch event information. An API may also implement functions
having parameters, variables or pointers. An API may receive parameters as disclosed or
other combinations of parameters. In addition to the APIs disclosed, other APIs
individually or in combination can perform similar functionality as the disclosed APIs.
[0036]          FIG. 1 is a diagram of an input/output processing stack of an exemplary
multi-touch capable device according to some embodiments of the invention. Hardware
100 can be provided at the base level of a multi-touch enabled device. It can include
various hardware interface components, such as a multi-touch enabled panel 101 and/or
an accelerometer 102. The multi-touch panel can include a display and a panel that senses
multiple touches simultaneously. An example of such a panel is discussed in more detail
in the 11/649,998 application mentioned above. The accelerometer can be a hardware
device that senses acceleration of the multi-touch enabled device. It can be used to sense
                                              10

1002022957
when the device is being moved, how it is being moved, if it is dropped, etc. Other
hardware interface devices, such as gyroscopes, speakers, buttons, infrared (IR) sensors,
etc. (not shown) can also be included.
[00371           A driver or a set of drivers 103 can communicate with the hardware 100.
The drivers can receive and process input data from received from the hardware. A core
Operating System (OS) 104 can communicate with the driver(s). The core OS can
process raw input data received from the driver(s). In some embodiments, the drivers can
be considered to be a part of the core OS.
[00381           A set of OS application programming interfaces (APIs) 105 can
communicate with the core OS. These APIs can be a set of APIs that are usually included
with operating systems (such as, for example, Linux or UNIX APIs). User Interface APIs
106 (UI APIs) can include a set of APIs designed for use by applications running on the
device. The UI APIs can utilize the OS APIs. Applications 107 running on the device can
utilize the APIs of the UI APIs in order to communicate with the user. The UI APIs can,
in turn, communicate with lower level elements, ultimately communicating with the
multi-touch panel 101 and various other user interface hardware. While each layer can
utilize the layer underneath it, that is not always required. For example, in some
embodiments, applications 107 can occasionally communicate with OS APIs 105. APIs
105 and 106 can comprise respective sets of application programming interfaces as well
as their respective implementations. For example UI APIs 106 can also include user
interface (UI) software for implementing the UI APIs.
[0039]           Figs. 2A and 2B are diagrams of two types of exemplary multi-touch
enabled devices according to some embodiments of the invention. Fig. 2A shows
exemplary device 200. Device 200 can include a CPU 201 and a memory 202 connected
through a bus 204. The bus can also connect to a multi-touch display 203. The multi
touch display can include a multi-touch panel and a display. The multi-touch panel and
the display can be combined to form the multi-touch display 203. The multi-touch display
can correspond to the multi-touch panel 101 within hardware layer 100 of Fig. 1. The
CPU can be used to execute software stored in the memory. The software executed by the
                                                11

1002022957
CPU can include layers 103-109 of Fig. 1. Thus, the software can include drivers, an OS,
various APIs and applications.
[0040]          Fig. 2B shows alternative device 210. Device 210 can be similar to device
200. However, device 210 can include a separate multi-touch panel (212) and display
(211) instead of the single unit of device 200. Thus, for device 210 one need not touch
the display in order to interact with the multi-touch panel. Device 210 can be, for
example, a multi-touch track-pad equipped laptop computer (the multi-touch panel
serving as a track pad).
[0041]          The multi touch panel and/or display of Figs. 2A and 2B can also utilize
other sensory technology, such as proximity sensing, as discussed in U.S. App. No.
11/649,998, mentioned above. Generally, a multi-point panel and/or display can be used
for the devices of Figs 2A and 2B. The multi-point panel and/or display can feature
various types of sensor technology. For example, it can feature multi-touch technology
only (thus resulting in a multi-touch panel and/or display), multi-proximity sense
technology, a combination of the two, or another type of multi-point technology.
[0042]          The devices of Figs 2A and 2B can include various different types of
multi-touch enabled devices. For example, they can include a mobile telephone, a
portable video game console, an electronic music player, an e-book, a PDA, an electronic
organizer, an e-mail device, a laptop or other personal computer, a kiosk computer, a
vending machine, etc.
[0043]          Fig. 3 is a diagram of an exemplary multi-touch display 300. The multi
touch display can be display 203 of Fig. 2A or display 211 of Fig. 2B. The display can
display various user interface elements (such as graphics, etc.) generated by software
running in the device incorporating the display (e.g., device 200 of Fig. 2A or device 210
of Fig. 2B). The user can interact with the various user interface elements in order to
interact with the software. When using the device of Fig. 2A, the user can interact with
the user interface elements by touching them directly on the display. When using the
device of Fig. 2B, the user can touch the separate multi-touch panel 212 in order to move
                                              12

1002022957
and control one or more cursors on the display 211, the cursors being used to interact
with the software.
[0044]          The user interface elements rendered at the display 300 can include one or
more views. Each view can represent a graphical user interface element handled by a
separate software element. The separate software elements can include different
applications, different processes or threads (even if within the same application), different
routines or subroutines, different objects, etc. In some embodiments, each separate
software element can create user interface elements for its respective portion of the
display as well as receive and handle touch inputs for that portion of the display. The
touch inputs can be processed by the various layers discussed in connection with Fig. 1,
which can subsequently send processed touch input data to the software element (which
can be part of applications 109). The processed touch input data can be referred to as
touch event(s) and can be in a format that is easier to handle than raw touch data
generated by the multi-touch panel. For example, each touch event can include a set of
coordinates at which a touch is currently occurring. In some embodiments, the set of
coordinates may correspond to the centroid of a touch. For the sake of brevity and
simplicity, the discussion below may refer to a software element associated with a view
by simply referring to the view itself.
[0045]          Views can be nested. In other words, a view can include other views.
Consequently, the software element associated with a first view can include or be linked
to one or more software elements associated with views within the first view. While some
views can be associated with applications, others can be associated with high level OS
elements, such as graphical user interfaces, window managers, etc.
[00461          The exemplary display of Fig. 3 shows a music browsing application. The
display can include a status bar view 301 that indicates the overall status of the device.
The status bar view can be part of the OS. Title view 302 can also be included. The title
view can itself include several other views, such as centre title view 310, back button 312
and forward button 311. Table view 303 can also be included. Table view 303 can
include one or more table element views, such as table element view 304. As seen, in one
                                              13

1002022957
embodiment, the table element views can be song titles. A button bar view 305 can also
be included. The button bar view can include buttons 306-309.
[00471           Each view and its associated software element may be able to receive,
process and handle touch events that occur at that particular view. Thus, for example, if a
user touches song title view 304, the software element associated with that view can
receive a touch event indicating that the view has been touched, process it and respond
accordingly. For example, the software element can change the graphical representation
of the view (i.e., highlighting the view), and/or cause other actions such as playing a song
associated with the touched view.
[00481           In some embodiments, touch events are processed at the lowest level of
the view hierarchy. Thus, for example, if a user touches title bar view 302, the touch
event need not be directly processed by the software element associated with the title bar
view, but instead can be processed by a software element associated with a view included
within the title bar view where the touch occurred (i.e., a software element associated
with one of views 310, 311 and 312). In some embodiments, some higher level views can
also handle touch events. In addition, various software elements that are not associated
with a view being touched can nevertheless be alerted or can discover that the view is
being touched.
[0049]           Since display 300 is a multi-touch display, multiple touches can occur at
the same time. The multiple touches can occur in the same view, or in two or more
different views. Furthermore, the user can perform gestures (e.g., by pressing down one
or more fingers and moving them) that can have predefined meanings. Multi-touch
gestures are discussed in more detail in U.S. Pat. Application No. 10/903,964 (published
by the United States Patent & Trademark Office as US 2006-0026521 Al), entitled
"GESTURES FOR TOUCH SENSITIVE INPUT DEVICES," filed on July 30, 2004, and
hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0050]           A view can receive touch events that start within the view. If a user keeps
a finger pressed against the display, then the view can receive multiple touch events
indicating a continuous touch. If a user moves a pressed finger, the view can receive
                                               14

1002022957
multiple touch events indicating movement of the touch. If a user moves a pressed finger
outside of the view, then the view can still receive touch events associated with that
movement (and the views to which the finger has been moved need not receive such
touch events). Thus, a view can receive events associated with a gesture or a movement
that begins at the view, even if it continues outside of the view.
[0051]          A touch can refer to an act which begins with pressing a finger or another
body part or object to the surface of a multi touch panel (or multi touch display) and ends
when the finger or object is removed from the display. Thus, the touch can include
moving of the finger or object, or keeping the finger or object at the same place for a
period of time.
[0052]          Touch events can be sent to views (or the software elements that
implement the views) by one or more APIs (and their respective implementations). An
example of an API for handling touch events is provided in Appendix A below.
According to the API of Appendix A, the API can send each view a touch event data
structure that includes one or more single touch data structures (or touch data structures).
Each touch event data structure can define the current state of all touches taking place at
the view at a particular moment in time. The respective touch data structures within a
touch event data structure can define the current states of one or more respective single
touches at the particular moment in time. Thus, if there are three touches taking place at a
particular moment in time in a particular view, a touch event data structure comprising
three touch data structures defining the states of the five touches can be sent to the view.
In some embodiments, touch data structures can be sent even if their associated touches
are no longer taking place in order to alert the view that the touches have terminated.
[00531          As noted above, a touch may include an act that need not be instantaneous.
E.g., a touch can include an act of moving or holding a finger against a display for a
period of time. A touch data structure, however, defines a state of a touch at a particular
time. Therefore, multiple touch data structures may be associated with a single touch,
thus defining the single touch at different points in time.
                                               15

1002022957
[00541           Each touch data structure can comprise various fields. A "first touch for
view" field can indicate whether the touch data structure defines the first touch for the
particular view (since the software element implementing the view was instantiated). A
"time stamp" field can indicate the particular time that the touch data structure relates to.
[0055]           An "info" field can be used to indicate if a touch is a rudimentary gesture.
For example, the "info" field can indicate whether the touch is a swipe and, if so, in
which direction the swipe is oriented. A swipe is a quick drag of one or more fingers in a
straight direction. The API implementations can determine if a touch is a swipe and pass
that information to the application through the "info" field, thus alleviating the
application of some data processing that would have been necessary if the touch were a
swipe.
[00561           A "tap count" field can indicate how many taps have been sequentially
performed at the position of the touch. A tap can be defined as a quick pressing and
lifting of a finger against a panel at a particular position. Multiple sequential taps can
occur if the finger is again pressed and released in quick succession at the same position
of the panel. Thus, the API implementation can count taps for various application and
relay this information through the tap "count field." Multiple taps at the same location are
sometimes considered to be a very useful and easy to remember command for touch
enabled interfaces. Thus, by counting taps, the API can again alleviate some data
processing from the application.
[00571           A "phase" field can indicate a particular phase the touch is currently in.
The phase field can have various values, such as "touch phase began" which can indicate
that the touch data structure defines a new touch that has not been referenced by previous
touch data structures. A "touch phase moved" value can indicate that the touch being
defined has moved from a position defined in a previous touch data structure. A "touch
phase stationary" value can indicate that the touch has stayed in the same position since
the last touch data structure for that touch was generated. A "touch phase ended" value
can indicate that the touch has ended (e.g., the user has lifted his/her finger from the
surface of a multi touch display). A "touch phase cancelled" value can indicate that the
                                                16

1002022957
touch has been cancelled by the device. A cancelled touch can be a touch that is not
necessarily ended by a user, but which the device can determine to ignore. For example,
the device can determine that the touch is being generated inadvertently (i.e., as a result
of placing a portable multi touch enabled device in one's pocket) and ignore the touch for
that reason. Each value of the "phase field" can be a integer number.
[00581           Thus, each touch data structure can define what is happening with a touch
at a particular time (e.g., whether the touch is stationary, being moved, etc.) as well as
other information associated with the touch (such as position). Accordingly, each touch
data structure can define the state of a particular touch at a particular moment in time.
One or more touch data structures referencing the same time can be added in a touch
event data structure that can define the states of all touches a particular view is receiving
at a moment in time (as noted above, some touch data structures may also reference
touches that have ended and are no longer being received). Multiple touch event data
structures can be sent to the software implementing a view as time passes, in order to
provide the software with continuous information describing the touches that are
happening at the view. One or more elements of the device such as, for example,
hardware 100, drivers 103, core OS 104, OS APIs 105 and UI APIs can detect touches at
the multi touch panel 101 and generate the various touch event data structures defining
these touches.
[0059]           The ability to handle multiple touches and multi-touch gestures can add
complexity to the various software elements. In some cases, such additional complexity
can be necessary to implement advanced and desirable interface features. For example, a
game may require the ability to handle multiple simultaneous touches that occur in
different views, as games often require the pressing of multiple buttons at the same time.
However, some simpler applications and/or views (and their associated software
elements) need not require advanced interface features. For example, a simple button
(such as button 306) can be satisfactorily operable with single touches and need not
require multi-touch functionality. In these cases, the underlying OS may send
unnecessary or excessive touch data (e.g., multi-touch data) to a software element
associated with a view that is intended to be operable by single touches only (e.g., a
                                               17

1002022957
button). Because the software element may need to process this data, it may need to
feature all the complexity of a software element that handles multiple touches, even
though it is associated with a view for which only single touches are relevant. This can
increase the cost of development of software for the device, because software elements
that have been traditionally very easy to program in a mouse interface environment (i.e.,
various buttons, etc.) may be much more complex in a multi-touch environment.
[00601           Embodiments of the present invention address the above discussed issues
by selectively providing touch data to various software elements in accordance with
predefined settings. Thus, a simpler interface can be provided for selected software
elements, while others can take advantage of more complex multi-touch input.
[00611           Embodiments of the invention can rely on one or more flags associated
with one or more views, wherein each flag or combination thereof indicates a mode of
touch event processing for a particular view. For example, multi-touch and/or exclusive
touch flags can be used. The multi-touch flag can indicate whether a particular view is
capable of receiving multiple simultaneous touches or not. The exclusive touch flag can
indicate whether a particular view is to allow other views to receive touch events while
the view is receiving a touch event.
[0062]           Fig. 4 is a flow chart showing the operation of the multi-touch flag
according to one embodiment of the invention. At step 400, a user can touch a view at a
first location within the view. It can be assumed that no other touches are present on the
multi-touch display when the touch of step 400 is received. At step 402, the OS can send
a touch event defining the received touch to a software element associated with the
touched location.
[00631           At step 404, the user can touch the view at a second location while not
releasing the first touch (i.e., while keeping a finger pressed down at the first location).
Thus, for example, the user can touch the right portion of table element view 304 at step
400 and touch the left portion of table element view 304 at step 404 without releasing
his/her finger from the right portion. Therefore, the second touch is contemporaneous
with the first touch (thus taking advantage of the multi-touch capabilities of display 300).
                                               18

1002022957
[00641           At step 406, the OS can determine whether the multi-touch flag for the
view being touched is set. If the multi-touch flag is set, then the view can be a view that
can handle multiple contemporaneous touches. Therefore, at step 408, a second touch
event for the second touch can be sent to the software element associated with the view.
It should be noted that new instances of the first touch event can also be sent, indicating
that the first touch event is still taking place (i.e., the finger at the first location has not
been lifted). The new instances of the first touch event can specify different locations if
the finger at the first location is moved away from that location without being lifted (i.e.,
if it is being "dragged" on the surface of the display).
[00651           If, on the other hand, the multi-touch flag is not set, the OS can ignore or
block the second touch. Ignoring the second touch can result in not sending any touch
events associated with the second touch to the software element associated with the
touched view. In some embodiments, the OS can alert other software elements of the
second touch, if necessary.
[00661           Thus, embodiments of the present invention can allow relatively simple
software elements that are programmed to handle only a single touch at a time to keep
their multi-touch flag unasserted, and thus ensure that touch events that are part of
multiple contemporaneous touches will not be sent to them. Meanwhile, more complex
software elements that can handle multiple contemporaneous touches can assert their
multi-touch flag and receive touch events for all touches that occur at their associated
views. Consequently, development costs for the simple software elements can be reduced
while providing advanced multi-touch functionality for more complex elements.
[00671           Figs. 5A and 5B are a flow chart showing an exemplary method of
operation of the exclusive touch flag according to one embodiment of the invention. At
step 500, a user can touch a first view. At step 502, the OS can send a touch event to a
first software element associated with the first view. At step 504, the user can touch a
second view without releasing the first touch.
[00681           At step 506, the OS can check whether the exclusive touch flag for the
first view is asserted. If it is set (asserted), that means that the first view needs to receive
                                                  19

1002022957
touches exclusively, and no other touches are to be sent to other views. Thus, if the
exclusive touch flag is set, the OS can ignore (or block) the second touch and not send it
to any software elements. If the exclusive view flag is not set, then the process can
continue to step 510 of Fig. 5B.
[00691           In step 510, the OS can determine if the exclusive view flag for the second
view is set. If that flag is set, than the second view can only receive exclusive touch
events. Thus, if there is another touch event already being received by another view (i.e.,
the first view), the second view cannot receive a touch event, and the OS can ignore the
second touch (step 512). However, if the exclusive touch flag for the second touch is not
set (unasserted), the OS can send a touch event associated with the second touch to the
second view. More specifically, the OS can send a touch event associated with the second
touch to a software element associated with the second view (step 514).
[0070]           Thus, the exclusive touch flag can ensure that views flagged as exclusive
only receive touch events when they are the only views on the display receiving touch
events. The exclusive flag can be very useful in simplifying the software of applications
running on a multi-touch enabled device. In certain situations, allowing multiple views to
receive touches simultaneously can result in complex conflicts and errors. For example, if
a button to delete a song and a button to play a song are simultaneously pressed, this may
cause an error. Avoiding such conflicts may require complex and costly software.
However, embodiments of the present invention can reduce the need for such software by
providing an exclusive touch flag which can ensure that a view that has that flag set will
receive touch events only when it is the only view that is receiving a touch event.
Alternatively, one or more views can have their exclusive touch flags unasserted, thus
allowing multiple simultaneous touches at two or more of these views.
[00711           In some embodiments the exclusive flag can signify exclusivity for the
entire display. Thus, when a view with the exclusive flag set is receiving a touch event,
all other views in the display can be blocked from receiving any touch events. In
alternative embodiments, the exclusive flag can signify exclusivity in a smaller area such
as a single application, or a single window. For example, a first view with its exclusivity
                                                20

1002022957
flag set can block other views that are in the same window from receiving any touch
events while the first view is receiving a touch event, but not block views in other
windows.
[0072]          The exclusive touch and multi-touch flags can be combined. Accordingly,
one or more views being displayed can each include two flags - a multi-touch flag and an
exclusive touch flag. In some embodiments, all displayed views can include these two
flags. The value of one flag need not depend on the value of another. In one example, a
view with both exclusive and multi-touch flags set can allow multiple touches within the
view but may only receive touches exclusively (i.e., when the view is receiving touches,
touches to other views can be blocked). A view with both flags unasserted can block
multiple touches within the view but allow single touches within the view even if touches
are simultaneously taking place in other views. A view with the multi-touch flag
unasserted and the exclusive touch flag asserted can allow only single touches within the
view when no other touches are taking place in any other views. A view with the multi
touch flag asserted and the exclusive touch flag unasserted can allow all touches received
for the view. A view with both flags asserted can allow multiple touches in the view
while no other touches are taking place for other views.
[00731          Alternative embodiments can feature only one of the flags (and the
associated functionality). Thus, some embodiments can use the multi-touch flag only or
exclusive touch flag only. In some embodiments, different views can use different
combinations of the flags.
[0074]          The various functionalities performed by the OS in Figs 4, 5A and 5B can
instead be performed by other software, such as various utility software. These
functionalities can be performed by software at any one layer of layers 103 through 108
of Fig. 1. In an alternative embodiment, these functionalities can even be performed by
hardware 100.
[00751          Provided below is an exemplary set of code showing the methods of an
exemplary software element associated with a view according to some embodiments of
                                              21

1002022957
the invention. A person of skill in the art would recognize that other code may also be
used to implement the functionalities discussed above.
[00761          While the above discussion centres on multi-touch displays and panels, the
present invention is not limited to multi-touch device but may include various multi-point
devices as discussed above (including, for example, multi-proximity sensor devices). For
multi-point devices, multi-point and an exclusive point flags can be used. These flags can
operate in a similar manner to the multi-touch and exclusive touch flags discussed above.
[00771          Although the present invention has been fully described in connection
with embodiments thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings, it is to be noted
that various changes and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art.
Such changes and modifications are to be understood as being included within the scope
of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                              22

1002022957
                                  APPENDIX A
                          EXEMPLARY UI API CODE
@interface UIResponder
-   (void)touchesBegan:(NSSet *)touches withEvent:(UIEvent   *)event;
-   (void)touchesMoved:(NSSet *)touches withEvent:(UIEvent   *)event;
-   (void)touchesEnded:(NSSet *)touches withEvent:(UIEvent   *)event;
-   (void)touchesCanceled;
// This method can be implemented instead of the individual
touchBegan:/touchMoved:/touchEnded:
// methods if the view author wishes to handle all associated touches
simultaneously.
-   (void)touchesChangedWithEvent:(UIEvent *)event;
@end
typedef enum
      UITouchPhaseBegan,         // whenever a finger touches the surface.
      UITouchPhaseMoved,         // whenever a finger moves on the surface.
      UITouchPhaseStationary,    // whenever a finger is touching the
surface but hasn't moved since the previous event.
      UITouchPhaseEnded,         // whenever a finger leaves the surface.
      UITouchPhaseCanceled,      // whenever a touch doesn't end but we
need to stop tracking (e.g. putting device to face)
} UITouchPhase;
enum {
      UITouchSwipedUp       = 1 << 0, // more than one of the swipe flags
can be set if it's swiped at an angle.
      UITouchSwipedDown     = 1 << 1, // these swipe directions are
relative to the UI    orientation   (see UIApplication)
      UITouchSwipedLeft     = 1 << 2,
      UITouchSwipedRight    = 1 << 3,
};
typedef unsigned int UITouchInfo;
@interface UITouch      NSObject
      BOOL              firstTouchForView;
      NSTimeInterval    timestamp;
      UITouchPhase      phase;
      UITouchInfo       info;
      NSUInteger        tapCount;
      UIWindow           window;
      UIView             view;
                                        23

1002022957
      CGPoint           locationInView;
      CGPoint           previousLocationInView;
-   (NSTimeInterval)timestamp;
-   (UITouchPhase)touchPhase;
-   (UITouchInfo)touchInfo;
-   (NSUInteger)tapCount; //  touch down within a certain point within a
certain amount of time
-   (UIWindow *)window;
-   (UIView *)view;
-   (CGPoint)locationInView;
-   (CGPoint)previousLocationInView;
@end
@interface UIEvent    : NSObject
      CFTypeRef                  event;
      NSTimeInterval             timestamp;
      NSMutableSet                touches;
      CFMutableDictionaryRef     keyedTouches;
-   (NSTimeInterval)timestamp;
-   (NSSet *)allTouches;
-   (NSSet *)touchesForWindow:(UIWindow *)window;
-   (NSSet *)touchesForView:(UIView *)view;
@end
                                        24

   1002022957
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.       A computer readable medium comprising software for displaying a user interface
              and a touch data structure defining a state, at a particular time, of a single touch
 5            having been or being received at a multi-touch panel, the touch data structure
              comprising:
                      a location field indicating the location where the touch was or is being
              received;
                       a phase field defining a phase of the touch at the particular time, the
10            phase of the touch being selected from a plurality of predefined phase state
              values; and
                      a view field indicating a view, of a plurality of views corresponding to
              portions of the displayed user interface, that corresponds to a location where the
              touch was or is being received on the multi-touch panel.
15
   2.       The computer readable medium of claim 1 further comprising a touch event data
              structure indicating the state, at a particular time, of two or more touches being
              or having been simultaneously received at the multi-touch panel, the touch event
              data structure comprising a plurality of the touch data structures, each touch data
20            structure being associated with one of the two or more touches.
   3.       The computer readable medium of claim 1 or 2, wherein the touch data structure
              further comprises:
                     a time field indicating the particular time;
25                   a window field indicating the window in which the touch was or is being
              received;
                     a previous location field indicating a location at which the touch was
              previously received; and
                     a first touch for view field indicating whether the touch is the first one
30            received for the view in which it was or is being received.
   4.       The computer readable medium of any preceding claim, wherein the touch data
                                                   25

   1002022957
              structure further comprises an info field indicating whether the current touch
              comprises a swiping motion and, if it does, a general direction along which the
              motion is aligned.
 5 5.       The computer readable medium of any preceding claim, wherein the phase field
              holds a value indicating that the touch is a new touch that had been initiated at
              the particular time.
   6.       The computer readable medium of any preceding claim, wherein the phase field
10            holds a value indicating that the touch has been moved from a previous position
              to a new position.
   7.       The computer readable medium of any preceding claim, wherein the phase field
              holds a value indicating that the touch has stayed stationary since the issuance of
15            a previous data structure for the touch.
   8.       The computer readable medium of any preceding claim, further comprising a tap
              count field indicating a number of short taps that have been sequentially
              performed at the location of the touch.
20
   9.       The computer readable medium of any preceding claim, wherein the phase field
              holds a value indicating that the touch has ended.
   10.      The computer readable medium of any preceding claim, wherein the phase field
25            holds a value indicating that the touch has been cancelled by a device of which
              the multi touch panel forms part.
   11.      A device comprising a multi touch panel and a computer readable medium
              comprising a touch data structure defining a state, at a particular time, of a single
30            touch having been or being received at the multi-touch panel, the touch data
              structure comprising:
                                                   26

   1002022957
                       a location field indicating the location where the touch was or is being
              received;
                     a phase field defining a phase of the touch at the particular time, the phase
              of the touch being selected from a plurality of predefined phase state values; and
 5                   a view field indicating a view, of a plurality of views corresponding to
              portions of the displayed user interface, that corresponds to a location where the
              touch was or is being received on the multi-touch panel.
   12.      The device of claim 11, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises
10            a touch event data structure indicating the state, at a particular time, of two or
              more touches being or having been simultaneously received at the multi-touch
              panel, the touch event data structure comprising a plurality of the touch data
              structures, each touch data structure being associated with one of the two or
              more touches.
15
   13.      A method for operating a multi-touch enabled device with a multi-touch panel and
              a computer readable medium storing software for displaying a user interface on
              the multi-touch panel, comprising:
                     detecting a touch at the multi-touch panel; and
20                   sending to the software a data structure for defining a state of the touch at
              a particular time, the data structure comprising:
               a location field indicating the location where the touch was or is being received;
                       a phase field defining a phase of the touch at the particular time, the
              phase of the touch being selected from a plurality of predefined phase state
25            values; and
                     a view field indicating a view, of a plurality of views corresponding to
              portions of the displayed user interface, that corresponds to a location where the
              touch was or is being received on the multi-touch panel.
30 14.      The method of claim 13, comprising updating a touch event data structure
               indicating the state, at a particular time, of two or more touches being or having
                                                     27

   1002022957
              been simultaneously received at the multi-touch panel, the touch event data
              structure comprising a plurality of the touch data structures, each touch data
              structure being associated with one of the two or more touches.
 5 15.      The method of claim 13, wherein the data structure further comprises a time field
              indicating the particular time;
                     a window field indicating the window in which the touch was or is being
              received;
                     a previous location field indicating a location at which the touch was
10            previously received; and
                     a first touch for view field indicating whether the touch is the first one
              received for the view in which it was or is being received.
   16.      A device comprising a multi touch panel and a computer readable medium
15            comprising a touch data structure defining a state, at a particular time, of a single
              touch having been or being received at the multi-touch panel, the computer
              readable medium as claimed in any one of claims 3-10.
   17.      A method for displaying a user interface using a touch data structure defining a
20            state, at a particular time, of a single touch having been or being received at a
              multi-touch panel, the touch data structure stored in a computer readable
              medium as claimed in any one of claims 3-10.
                                                   28

                                        1/6
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                <U+2736><U+2715><U+2716>           <U+2746>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                <U+2736><U+2715><U+2717>           <U+276F><U+2720> <U+2746><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
                <U+2736><U+2715><U+2718>           <U+2756><U+261B> <U+2746><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+261E><U+2702><U+2663><U+260E><U+2706><U+270C>          <U+2748><U+271D><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2756><U+261B>
                                                         <U+2736><U+2715><U+271A>
                <U+2736><U+2715><U+2719>           <U+2749><U+261E><U+2702><U+2663><U+270C><U+261E><U+270D><U+271F><U+270E>
                              <U+274D><U+2746><U+270F><U+2749><U+2711><U+2746><U+270F><U+2712>
                <U+2736><U+2715><U+2715>    <U+25BC><U+2713> <U+2721><U+260E><U+271E><U+270C><U+2701>           <U+2746><U+2704><U+2704><U+270C><U+2701><U+2714> <U+25BC><U+270C><U+2706><U+270C><U+261E>
                        <U+2736><U+2715><U+2736>                   <U+2736><U+2715><U+271B>

                                                                  2/6
<removed-date>
                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                   <U+2701>
                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                   <U+2701>
                                      <U+270D>
                                                                   <U+2737>
                                      <U+270C>
                                      <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2749>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                       P
                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                           <U+25BC>
                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                              <U+2461>
                                              <U+2720>
                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                              <U+271E>
                  <U+2706>
                                                                           <U+2737>                                                       <U+261E>
                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                  <U+260E>
              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                              <U+25BC>
                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                   <U+275E>
                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                          <U+270C>
                              <U+2711>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2749>
                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                       <U+2461>
                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                       <U+271D>
                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                       <U+25BC>
                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                       <U+275E>
                                          <U+2706>
                                          <U+260E>
                                          <U+2748>

                                              3/6
<removed-date>                                  <U+2719><U+2736><U+2715>
                                                                              <U+2719><U+2715><U+2736>
                                                                            s<U+260E>t<U+260E><U+2721>s
                                                                      <U+2719><U+2736><U+2736>     <U+271F>t<U+275C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                        <U+2719><U+2715><U+271B>
              <U+2719><U+2736><U+271B>
                                                                        <U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E>
                                     <U+2759><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E>                         <U+271F>t<U+275C>
                                     <U+2759><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E>                                 <U+2719><U+2715><U+271A>
                                                                              <U+260E>t<U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>
                                     <U+2759><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E>
                                                                            <U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2761><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2719><U+2715><U+2719>
                                                                                 <U+260E>t<U+271F><U+271D><U+271E>
                                                                                 <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720>
                                                                        <U+2719><U+2715><U+2715>
                                                                     <U+25BC><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2706>s<U+270C><U+271D>t<U+270D>
                     <U+2719><U+2715><U+2718>    <U+2719><U+2715><U+2717>                     <U+2719><U+2715><U+2738>
                                     <U+2719><U+2715><U+2716>                     <U+2719><U+2715>
                    <U+271F><U+2721><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2721><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702>                  <U+271F><U+2721><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702>
                                    <U+271F><U+2721><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702>                  <U+271F><U+2721><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702>
                     <U+271F>t<U+275C>

                                         4/6
<removed-date>
                                     <U+276F>s<U+271E><U+275C> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701><U+271E>s t
                                     <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720> t<U+260E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E>
                                                                  <U+271A><U+2715><U+2715>
                                     <U+271D><U+2701> t<U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>                      <U+2756><U+2759> s<U+271E><U+2702><U+261E>s t <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2708><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E>
                                <U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> s<U+2701><U+2708><U+260E><U+2720>t<U+275C><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2761><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E>           <U+271A><U+2715><U+271B>
                                tss<U+2701> <U+2706>t<U+260E><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720>
                           <U+276F>s<U+271E><U+275C> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701><U+271E>s <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720> t<U+260E> t s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E>
                           <U+271D><U+2701> t<U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2720><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2721><U+260E> <U+275C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E>ts<U+2706><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E>         <U+271A><U+2715><U+271A>
                           <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701> <U+2708><U+275C><U+2701><U+2761> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E> <U+271D><U+2701> t<U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2702>
                                                       <U+271A><U+2715><U+2717>
                         <U+2768><U+271E>s             <U+25BC><U+2721><U+271D><U+260E><U+2706><U+25BC>              <U+25C6><U+2701>
                                       <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701> <U+2708><U+271D>t<U+2704>
                                          s<U+271E><U+260E>s
              <U+2756><U+2759> s<U+271E><U+2702><U+261E>s t s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E>                        <U+2756><U+2759> <U+2706><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+275C><U+271E>s s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2708><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E>                       <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701>
              s<U+2701><U+2708><U+260E><U+2720>t<U+275C><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2761><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2708><U+2701><U+275C>
              <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701>
                                                             <U+271A><U+2736><U+2715>
                   <U+271A><U+2715><U+2738>

                                           5/6
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+276F>s<U+271E><U+275C> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701><U+271E>s t <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720>
                                                                 <U+2718><U+2715><U+2715>
                              <U+2756><U+2759> s<U+271E><U+2702><U+261E>s t <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701> <U+271E><U+2708><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2701>
                              t <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E> s<U+2701><U+2708><U+260E><U+2720>t<U+275C><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2761><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E>            <U+2718><U+2715><U+271B>
                              tss<U+2701> <U+2706>t<U+260E><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720>
                              <U+276F>s<U+271E><U+275C> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701><U+271E>s t s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720>
                              <U+2720><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2701><U+2721><U+260E> <U+275C><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E>ts<U+2706><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E>               <U+2718><U+2715><U+271A>
                                                           <U+2718><U+2715><U+2717>
                        <U+2768><U+271E>s             <U+274A> <U+271D><U+2721>s<U+2706><U+2708><U+271E>                  <U+25C6><U+2701>
                                    <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701> <U+2708><U+271D>t<U+2704> <U+2708><U+2701><U+275C> <U+2708><U+2706><U+275C>s<U+260E>
                                         <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720> s<U+271E><U+260E>
              <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+275C><U+271E> s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701>
                  <U+2718><U+2715><U+2738>                    <U+260E><U+2701> t<U+2706><U+2704> <U+2701><U+2702>

                                        6/6
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                            <U+2708><U+275C><U+2701><U+2761> t<U+2706><U+2704> <U+2701><U+2762>
                                                    <U+2718><U+2736><U+2715>
                        <U+2768><U+271E>s          <U+274A> <U+271D><U+2721>s<U+2706><U+2708><U+271E>                <U+25C6><U+2701>
                                <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701> <U+2708><U+271D>t<U+2704> <U+2708><U+2701><U+275C> s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E>
                                      <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720> s<U+271E><U+260E>s
              <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+275C><U+271E> s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701>                   <U+2756><U+2759> s<U+271E><U+2702><U+261E>s s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2701>
                                                    <U+271E><U+2708><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E> <U+260E><U+2701> t s<U+2701><U+2708><U+260E><U+2720>t<U+275C><U+271E>
                                                    <U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2761><U+271E><U+2702><U+260E> tss<U+2701> <U+2706>t<U+260E><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701>
                  <U+2718><U+2736><U+271B>
                                                    <U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> s<U+271E> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E> <U+2708><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720>
                                                    <U+2718><U+2736><U+271A>

