                                           Abstract:
The present invention relates to a negative pressure wound closure system and methods for
using such a system. Preferred embodiments of the invention facilitate closure of the wound
by preferentially contracting to provide for movement of the tissue. Preferred embodiments
can utilize tissue grasping elements to apply a wound closing force to the tissue.

WO 2014/014842                               PCT/US2013/050558
                               1/21
                                    121           p          120
                  100
                           107
  z
               xx                                         xx     _
                       104            K106
                           FIG. 1A
    100                                               104
       1022
                      1006
               102104
     FIG. lB                            FIG. IC

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
                                       TITLE OF THE INVENTION
                        NEGATIVE PRESSURE WOUND CLOSURE DEVICE
                         CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
          This application claims priority to U.S. Application No. 61/672,173 filed July 16, 2012,
  U.S. Application No. 61/679,982 filed August 6, 2012 and to U.S. Application No. 61/779,900 filed
  on March 13, 2013. The entire contents of the above applications are being incorporated herein by
  reference.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          A number of techniques have been developed for treatment of wounds, including wounds
  resulting from accident and wounds resulting from surgery. Often, wounds are closed using sutures
  or staples. However, inserting these mechanical closure techniques requires making additional
  punctures or wounds to the skin, which can result in tissue injury and in the case of excess swelling,
  possible ischemia and tissue loss. Also, mechanical wound closures such as staples and sutures can
  cause highly-localized stresses at the insertion points that can impede and damage the normal
  wound healing processes of the skin.
          In recent years, there has been increased interest in using negative pressure devices for the
  treatment of wounds. Negative pressure wound treatment utilizes devices that remove wound
  fluids by applying negative pressure suction to the wound. It is believed that such negative
  pressures promote wound healing by facilitating the formation of granulation tissue at the wound
  site and assisting the body's normal inflammatory process while simultaneously removing excess
  fluid, which may contain adverse cytokines bacteria. However, further improvements in negative
  pressure wound therapy are needed to fully realize the benefits of treatment.
5
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          The present invention relates to a negative pressure wound closure device that specifically
  exerts force at the edges of the wound to facilitate closure of the wound. The device operates to
  reduce the need for repetitive replacement of wound filler material currently employed and can
0 advance the rate of healing. The device simultaneously uses negative pressure to remove wound
  fluids and to assist in closure of the wound.
          In one embodiment, a negative pressure wound closure device includes a wound filler
  material that is sized and shaped to fit within a wound opening and which contracts along at least
  one dimension upon application of a negative pressure to the filler material. The filler material is
                                                     -1-

      WO 2014/014842                                                                PCT/US2013/050558
  thus configured to preferentially contract in at least one direction and inhibit contractions in one or
  more additional directions. Prior negative pressure devices did not assist in wound closure, but
  were used to drain fluids. By providing for the controlled movement of tissue during the healing
  process in conjunction with the drainage of fluids from wounds as described in connection with the
  present invention, a substantial improvement in the rate of healing can be realized. Note that
  depending on the size of the wound, increased negative pressure can be used.
           In another preferred embodiment, a tissue grasping surface extends over an outer peripheral
  surface of the wound filler material and includes a plurality of tissue anchors that engage the tissue
  at the wound margin. Upon application of negative pressure, the tissue at the wound margin is
  displaced to facilitate closure of the wound. A negative pressure source, such as a vacuum pump, is
  coupled to the wound filler material to provide the negative pressure.
           The wound filler material generally comprises a porous material, such as a foam. For
  embodiments employing tissue anchors, these can be integrally formed in the filler material. In
  other embodiments, the tissue anchors are provided on a separate covering or film that is secured to
  the filler material.
           In preferred embodiments, the filler material includes a stabilizing structure that enables the
  material to collapse in at least one first direction and inhibits collapse in at least one second
  direction. The stabilizing structure can include regions of relatively rigid material surrounded by
  regions of relatively compressible material. In preferred embodiments, the stabilizing structure is
  an endoskeleton formed of rigid and/or semi-rigid materials.
           In exemplary embodiments, the regions of compressible material may include one or more
  sections of a compressible material configured, e.g., sized and shaped, for association with one or
  more surfaces defined by the stabilizing structure. For example, a stabilizing structure may define
  a top surface, a bottom surface and one or more side surfaces each, of which being associated with
5 a corresponding section of a compressible material. In exemplary embodiments, each section of the
  compressible material can be configured, e.g., sized and shaped, to match the corresponding
  surface. Thus, the sections of compressible material cooperate to envelope the stabilizing structure,
  e.g. to facilitate structural characteristics as described in the present application. In some
  embodiments, a tissue grasping surface, such as described above, may extend over an outer
0 peripheral surface of the compressible material, e.g. of the side sections of the compressible
  material that can engage the wound margins of an open wound.
           In exemplary embodiments the sections of compressible material can define a plurality of
  surface features on the inner peripheral surfaces thereof. For example ,the sections of compressible
  material may define an "egg crate" pattern of ridges and valleys. Advantageously, the surface
                                                        -2-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  features defined on the inner peripheral surface of the sections of compressible material can be
  configured for operative association with an inner volume of stabilizing structure. In exemplary
  embodiments, each surface of the stabilizing structure may define a lattice pattern of stabilizer
  elements. Thus, the surface features defined on the inner peripheral surface of each section of
  compressible material may be configured, e.g., patterned, to match the lattice pattern of the
  corresponding surface of the stabilizer element. In exemplary embodiments, the surface features
  defined on the inner peripheral surface of each section may provide tensile forces to the stabilizing
  structure, e.g., during the collapse thereof, to facilitate a structured collapse, e.g., in one or more
  directions. In some embodiments, the surface features defined on the inner peripheral surface of
  each section may be configured to impart a pre-selected force profile to the stabilizing structure,
  e.g., during the collapse thereof. In some embodiments, a pre-selected force profile can control the
  collapse of the stabilizing structure, e.g., providing for a non-uniform collapse such as by resisting
  collapse in one or more directions and/or in one or more regions. The shaped wound filler material
  provides for fluid transport across the device during the application of negative pressure.
  Consequently, a preferred embodiment provides for continuous contact of wound filler elements to
  facilitate continuous flow of fluid from the tissue margins and underlying tissue to the fluid exit
  port(s) for drainage from the wound.
           In certain embodiments, the stabilizing structure inhibits the filler material from collapsing
  along its height dimension, while enabling the filler material to collapse within the plane defined by
  the wound margins. This is useful in the case of abdominal surgery, for example, in which the
  surgical incision is along a straight line and opens laterally to form an oval shaped wound. This
  generally oval shaped wound can extend through muscle and fatty tissue having variable
  mechanical properties. Wound healing is better served through the use of an oval shaped structure
  adapted to preferentially collapse towards the original line of incision. In preferred embodiments,
5 the stabilizing structure promotes collapse of the filler material in a manner to effect
  reapproximation of the wound tissue. Fasciotomy wounds, or other wound dehiscences, or any
  open wound can be successfully treated using embodiments of the present invention.
           The wound closure device can be used to treat wounds in the mediastinum, for pressure
  ulcers, for wounds in the extremities (arms or legs) etc. The wound closure device can also be used
0 to treat wounds of different shapes, such as circular, square, rectangular or irregularly shaped
  wounds. A plurality of wound closure elements can be shaped to fit within a wound and can attach
  together to preferentially close the wound in a desired direction. The different elements can
  comprise different materials or have different characteristics, such as pore size and/or anchor size
  and distribution to form a composite structure.
                                                       -3-

      WO 2014/014842                                                              PCT/US2013/050558
           In one embodiment, an endoskeleton stabilizing structure includes a plurality of spaced
  apart rigid members forming a cross-hatched configuration. The endoskeleton enables the filler
  material to collapse along its width dimension and elongate to a smaller degree along its length
  dimension. In certain embodiments, a plurality of rigid members extend along the height of the
  filler material and inhibit collapse of the material in its height dimension, for example. According
  to certain embodiments, the endoskeleton comprises a network of interconnected rigid members
  that can articulate with respect to one another during collapse of the filler material. The
  endoskeleton can include truss supports to inhibit tilting motion of the filler material. In some
  embodiments, the tissue anchors can be integrally formed in the endoskeleton. The endoskeleton
  can have flexure elements with elastic properties such that the lateral force imparted by the skeleton
  is a function of displacement. The endoskeleton or frame prevents tilting of the wound closure
  device during use. The frame can include hollow tubes or cavities that alter the flex characteristics
  of the frame. The tubes or cavities can be used for the delivery of media into the wound.
           A preferred embodiment of the invention utilizes a wound healing device for the treatment
  of wounds in which seromas can form. The wound healing device can include apertures to provide
  for tissue contact through the apertures to promote wound healing. The device can include
  removalable drain elements for the application of negative pressure.
           In certain embodiments, the wound filler material includes a smooth bottom surface having
  micropores to allow the passage of fluid from the wound through the bottom surface and into the
  device for removal. The micropores can have variable pore size and/or pore density to direct the
  distribution of vacuum force from the negative pressure source. In some embodiments, the wound
  filler material can have variable internal pore sizes and/or pore density to direct the distribution of
  vacuum force.
           In one embodiment, a negative pressure wound treatment component for managing and/or
5 removing fluid is coupled to the wound filler material. A single negative pressure source can be
  used for wound closure and fluid management/drainage. A sliding surface is provided at the
  interface between the wound closure and fluid management components.
           In yet another embodiment, the filler material includes removable portions to adjust the size
  of the wound closure device. The filler material can be provided with pre-determined cleavage
0 lines for tearing or cutting away portions of the material. In certain embodiments, sets of tissue
  anchors are embedded in the filler material, and become exposed by removing excess portions of
  the material.
           According to another embodiment, the tissue anchors are provided with a variable force
  profile. The force profile can vary based on the depth of tissue or the type of tissue engaged. In
                                                      -4-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
  some embodiments, the force profile of the tissue grasping surface varies around the perimeter of
  the wound closure device. The force profile is varied, for instance, by varying one or more of the
  length of the tissue anchors, the shape of the anchors, the materials of the anchors and the density of
  the anchors.
          The present invention also relates to methods of closing a wound using a wound closure
  device as described above. For example, a linear incision in the skin overlying the abdomen
  provides access to a surgical site such as the gastrointestinal system of the human or animal body.
  Following completion, the wound must be treated by negative pressure therapy to facilitate
  recovery. Thus, a wound closure device in accordance with preferred embodiments of the
  invention is inserted for wound closure treatment.
          In a preferred embodiment, the wound closure device does not include tissue anchors, but
  instead utilizes a structure having a shape memory such that it expands to fill the wound cavity.
  Thus, the expanding frame exerts an expansion force when compressed so that the lateral peripheral
  elements of the device maintain contact with the wound margins around the peripheral surfaces of
  the wound closure device. The laterally directed outward expansion force is less than the closure
  force exerted on the tissue upon application of negative pressure that operates to close the wound
  margins and compress the wound closure device.
          By using the negative pressure wound closure device of the invention, patients with large or
  severe wounds are able to be discharged or engage in rehabilative physical therapy, changed at
  home and then brought back to have their wounds simply stitched closed. By improving wound
  closure treatment and thereby reducing cost, there is an opportunity for these devices to be a
  significant part of the instruments used for wound care.
          A preferred embodiment of the invention uses a wound healing device in combination with
  a wound closure device for treatment of wounds requiring both components.
5
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following
  detailed description of the invention, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings of
  which:
0         Fig. 1A is a perspective schematic view of a negative pressure wound closure device.
          Fig. 1B is a cross-section view of the tissue grasping surface of the wound closure device.
          Fig. IC is a side view of one embodiment of the tissue grasping surface.
          Fig. ID is a top view of the wound closure device showing x-y stabilizers in phantom.
          Fig. 1E is a cross-section view of filler material showing x-y stabilizers and z-stabilizers.
                                                     -5-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
           Fig. IF is a bottom view of the wound closure device showing a smooth bottom surface and
  micropores for removing fluid from the wound site.
           Fig. IG is an elevation view of a peripheral stabilizer element.
           Figs. 2A and 2B are perspective and side views, respectively, of a supporting endoskeleton.
5          Figs. 3A and 3B are perspective and side views, respectively, of a supporting endoskeleton
  with support trusses.
           Fig. 3C is a side view of a supporting endoskeleton with x-shaped support trusses.
           Figs. 4A-C illustrate a wound closure device of the invention closing a wound.
           Figs. 4D-4E illustrate the use of a plurality of wound closure elements used for wounds of
  different shapes.
           Fig. 5 illustrates a two-stage negative pressure wound treatment and negative pressure
  wound closure (NPWT/NPWC) device.
           Fig. 6 illustrates an enlarged view of a preferred embodiment of the tissue anchor system in
  accordance with the invention.
5          Fig. 7 illustrates an embodiment of a wound filler material having a tear-away or cut-away
  design for accommodating different wound sizes, with tissue anchors embedded within the filler
  material at pre-determined cleavage points.
           Fig. 8A is a side view of a tissue grasping surface, illustrating different tissue anchors for
  different types of tissue (T1 , T2) and the respective force profiles for the anchors, including the
  maximum force applied during vacuum closure (F1 ) and the force required to remove the anchors
  from the tissue (F2) without damaging the tissue.
           Fig. 8B illustrates different designs for a tissue anchor of the invention.
           Fig. 8C illustrates an enlarged view of tissue anchor elements on the peripheral surface of
  an oval shaped wound closure device.
5          Fig. 9A is a schematic illustration of a wound closure device positioned within a wound
  showing the different force profile around the margin of the wound according to one embodiment.
           Fig. 9B illustrates the wound closure device of Fig. 9A after a period of wound closure and
  healing, with the original configuration of the wound and wound closure device indicated in
  phantom.
0          Figs. 1OA and lOB schematically illustrate processes of using a wound closure device in
  accordance with preferred embodiments of the invention.
           Fig. 11 A illustrates a cross sectional view of a wound drain and closure system at a surgical
  site in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention.
           Fig. 11 B illustrates a top view of a wound closure device and a tissue adhesion device.
                                                       -6-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
           Fig. 1 IC shows a detailed perspective of a surgical drainage system in accordance with a
  preferred embodiment of the invention.
           Fig. 12 illustrates a cross-sectional view of wound drain and closure system used for a
  surgically treated pressure ulcer in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention.
           Fig. 13 illustrates a sensor system for measuring the wound closure force for a negative
  pressure wound closure system.
           Fig. 14 illustrates a pressure sensor system for measuring wound pressure in accordance
  with preferred embodiments of the invention.
           Fig. 15 illustrates a negative pressure wound closure system having a controlled pressure
  system.
           Figs. 16A and 16B illustrate perspective and exploded views of a preferred embodiment of
  the device.
           Fig. 17 shows a perspective view of the assembled device of Fig. 16B.
           Figs. 18A and 18B show discrete shaped elements of the wound filler within the associated
  structure.
           Fig. 19 illustrates an outer layer with tissue anchor elements.
           Figs. 20A and 20B show the anchor elements adhering to tissue.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           Figs. 1A-iF illustrate an embodiment of a wound closure device 100 of the present
  invention. The device 100 includes a wound filler material 102 that is sized and shaped to fit within
  a wound opening of a human or animal patient. In preferred embodiments, the filler material 102 is
  a porous, biocompatible material, such as an open cell polyurethane foam. The filler material 102
  is also preferentially collapsible, meaning that its size can be reduced along at least one dimension
5 (e.g., length, width, height) by applying a negative pressure to the filler material 102, while at the
  same time inhibiting contractions or contracting at a slower rate in another direction. Further
  details regarding devices and methods of the present invention can be found in U.S. Application
  No. 13/365,615 filed on February 3, 2012, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by
  reference.
0          Extending over at least one surface of the filler material 102, and preferably extending over
  an outer perimeter surface of the filler material 102 is a tissue grasping surface 104. In one
  embodiment, the tissue grasping surface 104 is a flexible covering, such as a mesh film, that is
  secured to the outer perimeter surface of the filler material 102 and can expand and contract with
  the expansion and contraction of the filler material 102. In one embodiment, the tissue grasping
                                                       -7-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
  surface 102 is a mesh film or a composite polyester mesh film, such as the ParietexTM mesh from
  Covidien (Mansfield, MA). The tissue grasping surface 104 includes a plurality of outward-facing
  tissue anchor elements 106, which in the preferred embodiment are a plurality of closely-spaced
  barbs, hooks or tissue grasping elements, which can be integrally formed in the mesh film.
5          Fig. lB is an edge view of the device 100 showing the tissue grasping elements 106
  projecting from the tissue grasping surface 104 on the periphery of the wound filler material 102.
  Fig. IC is a side view of one embodiment, in which the tissue grasping surface 104 is formed from
  a flexible material, in particular, a mesh material. The grasping elements 106 project out from the
  page in Fig. IC. The flexible, mesh material of the tissue grasping surface 104 allows the surface to
  expand and contract as necessary with the expansion and contraction of the underlying wound filler
  material 102.
           In other embodiments, the tissue grasping surface 104 with anchor elements 106 can be
  integrally formed in the filler material 102. The tissue grasping surface and/or anchor elements can
  also be formed using a resorbable material.
5          The tissue anchor elements 106 are preferably provided over an entire outer perimeter
  surface of the filler material 102. When the filler material 102 is placed within a wound, the anchor
  elements 106 become buried within the tissue at the wound margins and secure the device 100
  within the wound opening. The tissue anchor elements 106 are preferably spread out over the
  entire surface of the wound margin to provide sufficient strength in the grasping force. The tissue
  grasping surface 104 is preferably designed to allow the wound closure device 100 to be easily
  placed but also easily removed and replaced with a new device 100 or other wound dressing as
  needed (e.g., 2-7 days later). The grasping surface 104 can be configured to have high grasping
  strength over at least a portion of its surface, but easily removable by, for example, pulling away at
  an edge. The tissue grasping surface 104 is preferably designed to be removed from a wound
5 without damaging the surrounding tissue. The anchor elements 106 are preferably designed to
  accommodate various tissue applications, such as muscle, fat, skin and collagen, and various
  combinations of these. The anchor elements 106 can also be designed to remain securely attached
  to particular tissues for a selected time period in certain embodiments.
           In embodiments in which the grasping surface 104 is formed from a covering on the outer
0 peripheral surface of the filler material 102, the grasping surface can be attached to the filler
  material 102 using any suitable technique, such as with an adhesive or a mechanical fastening
  system. In a preferred embodiment, the tissue grasping surface 104 includes filler-grasping anchor
  elements, which can be barbs, that secure the grasping surface to the filler material. As shown in
  the cross-section view of Fig. 6, for example, the grasping surface 400 comprises a thin mesh or
                                                       -8-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  film having two sets of barbs or similar anchor elements, a first set 410 of outwardly-facing tissue
  grasping elements 412 that are designed to project into tissue, and a second set 404 of elements 406
  that project into the filler material to secure the grasping surface to the filler material.
          Returning to Figs. lA-IF, a negative pressure source 120, such as a pump, is coupled to the
  filler material 102 by a suitable coupling or conduit, such as tube 121. Additional tubes 107 can
  also be connected through an array of spaced ports 105 in order to spatially distribute the suction
  force so that the force exerted along the sidewall 104 can be controlled separately from a fluid
  suction force. The negative pressure source 120 can be activated to apply a negative pressure to the
  filler material 102. In general, the negative pressure causes a resulting pressure differential which
  causes the filler material 102 to contract or "collapse." As the filler material 102 contracts, the
  tissue grasping surface 104 grabs and pulls on the adjacent tissue, which is preferably the tissue
  around a wound margin, resulting in the displacement of the tissue thereby facilitating the closure
  of the wound. In a preferred embodiment, the filler material 102 is designed to collapse
  preferentially in at least one direction. For example, in the embodiment of Fig. 1A, the filler
  material 102 includes a length and width dimension along the y- and x-axes, respectively, and a
  height along the z-axis. In order to efficiently transmit the negative pressure to the subcutaneous or
  other wound margins, it is preferred that the filler material 102 does not collapse centrally in the z
  direction (like a pancake), so that the action of the negative pressure works predominantly in the x
  y directions, or more particularly, in a two-dimensional plane along the wound margins such as in
  an open abdomen or fasciotomy. It will be understood that in some embodiments, the plane of the
  wound margins can be curved, such as when the wound goes around the curve of an abdomen or
  leg.
          Furthermore, in preferred embodiments the filler material 102 is configured to preferentially
  collapse in length and/or width (i.e., along the x- and y-axes) to reapproximate the tissue at the
5 wound margins. Note that certain types of wounds can be treated without the anchor elements
  described herein.
          There are several ways in which the filler material 102 is configured to exhibit preferential
  collapse characteristics. For example, portions of the filler material 102 can be made from more
  rigid material than the surrounding material, causing the filler material to preferentially collapse in a
0 particular direction. In one embodiment, the filler material 102 can include a stabilizing
  endoskeleton made from a suitable rigid material embedded within a "collapsible" filler, such as an
  open cell foam. Note that the amount of applied negative pressure can be adjustable depending on
  the size and shape of the wound. Pressures above 125 mm, to as much as 250 mm or more can be
  used to assist in wound closure. The pressure can be reduced over time as the wound contracts.
                                                       -9-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
           As shown in Figs. ID and 1E, for example, the filler material 102 includes a plurality of
  stabilizer elements 108 (shown in phantom) that enable the collapse of the filler material in certain
  directions, while inhibiting it in other directions. In this embodiment, the stabilizer elements 108
  include a plurality of stabilizing ribs, flexures or rods, made from a suitably rigid or semi-rigid
  material, such as plastic. The ribbed structure is configured to preferentially collapse along a
  specific axis to facilitate proper closure of the wound. The internal stabilizer elements 108 in this
  embodiment form a cross-hatched pattern as seen in Fig. ID, though it will be understood that other
  configurations can be utilized. The spacing between the elements in the "open" state can be in a
  range of 1-2 cm, for example. The stabilizer elements 108 can be provided at different depths
  within the filler material, as shown in the cross-section view of Fig. 1E, which helps inhibit collapse
  in the z-direction. In some embodiments, z-axis stabilizer elements 110 can be utilized to inhibit
  collapse in this direction. In Fig. 1E, the z-axis stabilizer elements 110 are projections that extend
  vertically from the ribs 108. In other embodiments, separate z-axis stabilizers, such as rods or rib
  structures, can be employed.
           In certain embodiments, the device 100 can include a flexible covering comprising
  peripheral stabilizer element 111 that extends around the outer periphery of the filler material 102,
  as shown in Fig. 1E. The stabilizer element 111 can include a rib structure that reinforces the filler
  material 102 in order to prevent collapse in the z-direction, as well as to inhibit tilting of the filler
  material in the z-y and z-x planes. Thus, preferred embodiments of the filler material preferentially
  contract in at least a first direction relative to a second direction upon application of a negative
  pressure. Thus, for example, the width will contract at a faster rate relative to the length, while the
  height (depth of the wound) does not contract a substantial distance.
           In some embodiments, the tissue grasping anchor elements 106 can be included on the
  peripheral stabilizer element 111, and project out from the periphery of the filler material 102. This
5 can be as an alterative to, or in addition to, providing the anchor elements 106 on a separate mesh or
  film. The peripheral stabilizer element 111 is preferably configured to expand and contract as
  necessary with the expansion and contraction of the wound filler material 102. Thus, in a preferred
  embodiment, the stabilizer element 111 has sufficient flexibility to contract and expand in the x
  and y- directions (i.e., around the periphery of the filler material 102), but has adequate rigidity
0 along the z-direction (i.e. along the height of the filler) to inhibit collapse or tilting in this direction.
           An embodiment of a peripheral stabilizer element 111 is shown in elevation view in Fig.
  1G. The stabilizer element 111 includes a plurality of stabilizing rods 113, oriented to inhibit
  collapse in the z-direction. The rods 113 are separated by a flexible material 114 that allows the
  stabilizer element 111 to expand and contract around the wound margin with the expansion and
                                                        -10-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  contraction of the underlying filler material. In this embodiment, the tissue anchor elements 106
  are formed in the peripheral stabilizer element 111 and project out from the page.
           One embodiment of an endoskeleton for a wound filler material of the invention is shown in
  Figs. 2A and 2B. The endoskeleton includes a first set of x-y stabilizer elements 108a and a second
  set of x-y stabilizer elements 108b that are connected by a plurality of z-axis stabilizer elements
  110. During collapse of the filler material 102, the respective x-y stabilizer elements 108a, 108b
  are collapsible in the x-y directions, but the z-axis stabilizer elements 110 inhibit collapse in the z
  direction. In preferred embodiments, the stabilizer elements can articulate with respect to one
  another during collapse. The joints 109 in the structure can be hinged or have a reduced
  thickness to accommodate the flexing of the system. The flexures between the joints may also
  flex to accommodate the desired compression along the first, or lateral, axis 117 (see Fig. 4B).
  Some expansion can occur along the second, or longitudinal, axis 119 as the device
  compresses. The frame material can have a shape memory characteristic, which in
  combination with the suction force, 25 defines the force level applied to the tissue.
           In another embodiment, shown in Figs. 3A and 3B, the endoskeleton includes truss
  stabilizers 112 to inhibit tilting of the filler material 102 during collapse. The truss stabilizers 112
  keep the upper 108a and lower 108b x-y stabilizers aligned with one another as the filler material
  102 collapses. In some embodiments, the truss stabilizers 112 can be rigid in certain directions and
  relatively less rigid in other directions (for example, the truss stabilizer can be bowed) to promote
  collapse in certain directions. Fig. 3C illustrates an alternative embodiment having truss stabilizers
  112 in an "x"-shaped pattern.
           A preferred embodiment of the present invention employs an endoskeleton structure in
  which one or more of the stabilizer or flexure elements 108, 112 comprise hollow tubes or cavities
  115. The hollow tube elements 108, 112 can be used to alter the elastic characteristics of the
5 structure and thereby adjust the lateral displacement and force characteristics of structure. The
  diagonal flexures 112 extend between the planes formed by the lateral elements 108a and 108b.
           The use of hollow tube elements in the elastic structure can also be used for the delivery of
  drainage fluid, medication, oxygen or other media into the wound. The tubes 108, 112 can contain
  media upon implant into the wound that is subsequently released into the wound or can be
0 connected to an external source. The tube walls can have pores that open to accommodate fluid
  flow into the wound from within the tube elements or cavities therein. The location of tubular
  elements, as opposed to solid rods or flexures, can be selectively positioned within the structure
  depending on the preferred delivery location. For example, the flexures 108 along the lateral walls
  can be used for delivery to the regions being drawn together under negative pressure. Alternatively,
                                                        -11-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
  the flexures in the bottom plane of the skeleton can be used for delivery to the underlying tissue
  structure or organs.
           The stabilizing endoskeleton in certain embodiments can be made, in whole or in part, from
  a shape memory material. Various shape memory materials can be used which return from a
  deformed state (temporary shape) to their original (permanent) shape. This change in shape can be
  induced by an external stimulus or trigger. In one embodiment, the original or "permanent" shape
  of the endoskeleton is the "collapsed" configuration of the wound closure device, or the shape that
  will bring about wound reapproximation. When the wound closure device is initially inserted in the
  wound opening, the endoskeleton is in a deformed or temporary state and embedded within the
  filler material. The endoskeleton can preferentially revert to its original or "collapsed" state or,
  alternatively, cause the device to expand to engage the tissue. The "collapse" force of the shape
  memory endoskeleton can be in addition to or an alternative to the vacuum force induced by the
  negative pressure source. In certain embodiments, the application of a negative pressure to the
  wound closure device, which can cause the endoskeleton to revert to its original state.
           Fig. IF shows the bottom of the wound closure device 100 according to one embodiment.
  The device 100 in this embodiment includes a smooth bottom surface 115. This material can be
  biocompatible film to be used with, such as, provided in conjunction with the Renasys@ system
  available from Smith & Nephew. A preferred embodiment can also be used with a gauge as also
  provided in the Renasys@ system. The bottom surface 115 provides a low-friction interface
  between the wound closure device 100 and the underlying tissue. In the case of an abdominal
  wound, for example, the underlying tissue can include internal organs, such as the intestines. The
  smooth bottom surface 115 enables the filler material 102 to contract and expand freely without
  interference from the underlying tissue, and without damaging the underlying tissue. In a preferred
  embodiment, the bottom surface 115 includes micropores 116 (shown with size exaggerated in Fig.
5 IF for purposes of illustration) that allow the passage of fluid through the bottom surface 115 and
  into the device 100 for removal from the wound site. The wound closure device can also be
  inserted over a separate layer of material so that the device with contract on top of the sliding layer.
           In some embodiments, the micropores 116 can have different sizes in different regions
  and/or can have different pore densities in different regions in order to direct different force levels
0 of the vacuum source to different regions of the device 100. Similarly, the filler material 102 can
  be engineered with different internal pore sizes and/or pore densities to direct the distribution of
  forces from the vacuum source to different areas of the device 100.
           Figs. 4A-4C illustrate the use of the present device 100 to close a wound 200. The wound
  200 includes a wound opening 201 and a wound margin 203, as shown in Fig. 4A. In Fig. 4B, a
                                                     -12-

      WO 2014/014842                                                              PCT/US2013/050558
  wound closure device 100 is placed within the wound opening 201 so that the tissue grasping
  surface 104 is contacting the wound margin 203. In certain embodiments, the wound closure
  device 100 can be formed by trimming or tearing the filler material 102 to the proper size, and then
  attaching the tissue grasping elements 106 around the periphery of the filler material 102. In one
  embodiment, the grasping elements 106 are attached by attaching a two-sided barbed mesh to the
  filler material 102, where the outward-facing prongs are designed for grasping tissue and the
  inward-facing prongs are designed to secure the mesh to the filler material 102. A tube 121
  connects the filler material 102 to the negative pressure source. The area of the wound 200,
  including the filler material 102, can be covered by a sealing drape 205.
           In the embodiment of Fig. 4B, the filler material 102 includes a plurality of internal
  stabilizer elements 108 (shown in phantom) that provide the filler material 102 with a preferential
  collapse characteristic. The stabilizer elements 108 help control the collapse of the filler material
  102, and the resulting displacement of the tissue around the wound margin 203, in the x- and y
  directions. Additional stabilizer elements can be provided to control or inhibit collapse along the z
  direction. As described above in connection with Figs. ID, the stabilizer elements 108 in this
  embodiment include a crosshatched configuration.
           Fig. 4C illustrates the wound 200 following the application of a negative pressure to the
  wound closure device 100. The tissue anchor elements 106 grab the tissue margins 203 and cause
  displacement of the tissue margins 203 as the filler material 102 collapses. As seen in the Fig. 4C,
  the filler material 102 collapses in the x- and y- directions in such a manner as to reapproximate the
  tissue at the wound margin 203. In the embodiment of Fig. 4B and 4C, the crosshatched
  configuration of the stabilizer elements 108 help control the direction of tissue displacement during
  collapse. The largest amount of tissue displacement in this embodiment is in the central region of
  the wound 200, where the opening 201 is widest, and this displacement is primarily inward along
5 the x-direction. Away from the central region (e.g., at the top and bottom of the wound as shown in
  Figs. 4A and 4B), where the wound margins are closer together, less displacement in the x-direction
  is needed to reapproximate the tissue.
           In general, the inward collapse of the filler material along the y-direction is undesirable. In
  fact, during tissue reapproximation, the wound 200 will tend to elongate in y-direction as the
0 wound margins close in the x-direction. In preferred embodiments, the internal stabilizer elements
  108 promote the collapse of the filler material in a manner that provides wound reapproximation.
  In the embodiment of Figs. 4-C, for example, during filler collapse the crosshatched stabilizer
  elements 108 straighten out relative to one another, similar to an accordion gate. The largest
  displacement is in the central region of the filler 102, along the x-direction. The stabilizers 102
                                                      -13-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  generally inhibit inward collapse along the y-direction. As the stabilizers 108 straighten out, they
  can also facilitate elongation of the wound in the y-direction to allow proper tissue
  reapproximation. Shown in Figs. 4D-4E are different shaped wounds 220, 240 in which a plurality
  of wound closure elements are used in combination to fill the wound. In Fig. 4D, elements 222,
  224, 226 and 228 have different shapes that are cut or trimmed to size so as to substantially fill the
  wound that in this example, is circular in shape. When negative pressure is applied, the elements
  work together to close the wound in a desired direction. Fig. 4E illustrates a rectangular wound 240
  using closure elements 242, 244, 246, 248 and 250 to fill the wound 240. The tissue anchors of
  each closure element can also attach to the adjoining closure element(s). With suction applied to
  the central elements 224, 250, the adjoining elements are drawn towards the central elements to
  close the wound.
          The wound closure device 200 can remain in this configuration for a period of several days
  or weeks to facilitate closing and healing of the wound 200. After a period of healing, the device
  100 can be removed and optionally replaced with a smaller device. After the wound has been
  sufficiently closed using the present device, it can be stitched closed.
          Fig. 5 illustrates a two-stage negative pressure wound treatment and negative pressure
  wound closure (NPWT/NPWC) device 300. The device includes a negative pressure drainage/fluid
  management component 301, as is known in the art, that connects with an overlying negative
  pressure wound closure device 100. The wound closure device 100 includes a collapsible wound
  filler material 102 and a tissue grasping surface 104, substantially as described above. A tube 121
  connects the device 300 to a single pump for applying a negative pressure to the wound closure and
  wound treatment components. The device 300 can include interchangeable parts depending on the
  need of a specific wound application. In one embodiment, the device 300 is used for abdominal
  wounds in one example, and can also be used for mediastinum and fasciotomy wounds.
5         In a preferred embodiment, the filler material 102 is able to "slide" within the total
  NPWT/NPWC device 300. The filler material 102 includes a sliding surface 303 at the interface
  between the wound closure and fluid management components. The sliding surface can comprise a
  treated surface or a separate layer of material. The sliding surface 303 facilitates the free
  contraction of the wound closure component, without interference from the fluid management
0 component. The underlying fluid management component 301 can be specifically configured to
  manage fluid only and to not generate granulation, as this can slow down or inhibit the "slide."
          Fig. 6 illustrates an enlarged view of a preferred embodiment of the tissue anchor system
  400 in accordance with the invention. One side of the material 402 has a first group of anchor
  elements 404 that are adapted to grasp the filler material. The first anchor elements 404 can be
                                                     -14-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  shaped to grasp the filter material such as with a distal hooked shape 406. As material 402 must
  attach to the filter with a certain grasping strength in order to apply a sufficient pulling force on the
  tissue, a specified force level F, must be applied to remove the hooks from the filler material that
  exceeds the pulling force being applied to the tissue. Similarly, as the tissue to be grasped by the
  material 402 has different structural characteristics then the filler material, a second group of anchor
  elements 410 adapted to grasp tissue can have a different shape and grasping force then the first
  anchor elements. In this embodiment, barbs 412 can have bilateral prongs 414 that tend to collapse
  upon insertion in tissue and yet expand when pulled in an opposite direction such that a certain
  pulling force can be applied to tissue. However, the prongs or cone shape anchor element has a
  release force such that the barbs can be manually pulled from the tissue without causing injury.
           Fig. 7 illustrates an embodiment of a wound filler material 500 having a tear-away or cut
  away design for accommodating different wound sizes. The filler material 500 includes natural
  cleavage lines 501, 503, 505 that allow the size of the material to be adjusted to fit the wound to be
  closed. The material 500 is designed to be torn or cut at the cleavage lines to remove one or more
  portions 502a, 502b, 502c of the material and adjust the size of the material. Sets of tissue anchors
  506a, 506b, 506c, 506d are embedded within the filler material at pre-determined cleavage points,
  and become exposed as the respective outer portions 502a, 502b, 502c are removed. The tissue
  anchors 506a, 506b, 506c, 506d can be associated with a stabilizing endoskeleton structure, such as
  described above in connection with Figs. 1-4. In some embodiments, the stabilizing endoskeleton
  structure can include pre-defined cleavage or attachment points to remove portions of the stabilizer
  structure as the size of the filler material 500 is adjusted.
           Fig. 8A is a side view of a tissue grasping surface, illustrating different tissue anchors 601,
  602, 603, 604 for different types of tissue (T1 , T2 ). Also illustrated is an example of the respective
  force profiles for the anchors, including the maximum force applied to the tissue during vacuum
5 closure (FI) and the force required to remove the anchors from the tissue (F2) without damaging the
  tissue. In one embodiment, the characteristics of the tissue anchors vary to provide different force
  profiles across the interface between the wound closure device and the surrounding tissue. For
  example, for the upper tissue layer(s), T1 , the anchor 601 is designed to attach to collagen material,
  such as in the dermis. The anchor 601 has a different force profile (FI and F2) on the upper tissue
C layer(s), T1 , as shown in Fig. 8A. At the lower tissue layers T2 , the anchors 602, 603, 604 are
  designed to attach to fatty tissue of subcutaneous layer. Generally, a smaller force profile is needed
  to secure the anchors to this tissue.
           The characteristics of the anchors, and their resulting force profiles, can vary by a number
  of parameters, such as the length of the anchor, the shape of the anchor, the structure of grasping
                                                       -15-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  features, the material(s) used for the anchor, the relative flexibility/rigidity of the anchors, and the
  spacing/density of the anchors. In Fig. 8A for example, anchor 601 is significantly longer than
  anchors 602, 603, which in turn are longer than anchors 604. Fig. 8A also illustrates varying the
  density of anchors, such as shown in 602, 603 and 604. Fig. 8B illustrates three examples of
  different types of grasping features, including a barbed configuration 605, a staggered hook
  configuration 606, and a staggered barbed configuration 607. Other suitable grasping features can
  be utilized such as the anchor elements 620 shown in the enlarged perspective view of Fig. 8C. The
  anchoring process can be augmented by suturing the filler material or supporting endoskeleton to
  the tissue. The force profile can also be varied by controlling the vacuum force distribution in the
  filler material, such as by varying the pore size and/or pore density of the filler.
           The wound closure device of the invention can be provided in kits for closing different
  types of wounds (e.g., abdominal, fasciotomy, etc.). The tissue grasping surface can be optimized
  for different types of tissue such as collagen, fatty tissue and muscle, depending on the structure of
  the tissue at the wound site.
           In certain embodiments, the force profile of the wound closure device is variable around the
  periphery of the wound. An exemplary embodiment is illustrated in Fig. 9A, which shows the force
  profile (fi) exerted on the wound margins at a plurality of locations on the periphery of the wound.
  In this embodiment, the largest fi is at the central region of the wound filler 102, where the wound
  opening is widest and the wound closure force is entirely or nearly entirely in the x-direction.
  Moving towards the top and bottom regions of the wound, the closure force (fi) is much smaller.
  One reason for this is because the wound opening is much smaller in these regions, and a much
  smaller force is needed to reapproximate the tissue. Also, the inward force exerted in these regions
  includes components in both the x- and y-directions. Thus, a smaller force profile is preferable to
  avoid the inward collapse of the tissue in the y-direction. As illustrated in Fig. 9B, as the wound
5 closes and heals from an initial state (indicated by dotted lines) to a later state (indicated by solid
  lines), it becomes elongated in the y-direction. Thus, the displacement of tissue anchors 701a and
  70 lb is exclusively in the x-direction and in the direction of the closure force (fi), while the
  displacement of tissue anchors 703a, 703b is both inwards in the x-direction (in the direction of the
  closure force) and outwards in the y-direction (opposite the direction of the closure force). Thus, a
0 smaller fi is preferable in these regions to provide more "play" between the anchor elements and
  the surrounding tissue. Alternatively, the wound closure device is configured so that it does not
  elongate, but rather does not change its length along the long axis 720.
           The variation in the force profile around the periphery of the wound closure device can be
  achieved in a variety of ways, such as varying the spacing/density of the tissue anchors, the types of
                                                      -16-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
  anchors, length of anchors, or configuration thereof, etc. For example, in Figs. 9A and 9B, anchors
  701a, 701b are longer and penetrate deeper into the tissue compared to anchors 703a, 703b. The
  force profile can also be varied by controlling the vacuum force distribution in the filler material,
   such as by varying the pore size and/or pore density of the filler.
           On one embodiment, a method of fabricating a wound closure device of the invention
  includes forming a stabilizing endoskeleton of rigid or semi-rigid material and forming a collapsible
  filler material over the endoskeleton. The stabilizing endoskeleton can be formed using a molding
  process, and can be molded as an integral unit or in one or more components that are then
  assembled to form the endoskeleton. Different components of the endoskeleton can have different
  thicknesses and/or degrees of rigidity to provide varying levels of rigidity and flexibility along
  different directions. The endoskeleton can be assembled by joining components, such as by using a
   suitable adhesive or other joining process such as by inserting rods into tubular segments. In
  certain embodiments, at least some of the components can be assembled to provide articulating
  joints. In preferred embodiments, the filler material is formed by mixing together appropriate
  metered amounts of constituent substances, (e.g., isocyanates, polyols, catalysts, surfactants,
  blowing agents and the like in the case of polyurethane foam), dispensing the reacting mixture into
  a mold, and then curing and demolding the material. Optionally, the material can then be cut or
  trimmed to the finished shape. In preferred embodiments, the endoskeleton support structure is
  assembled and placed into the mold, and the filler material is molded around the endoskeleton. An
  example of a biodegradable foam product suitable for the present wound closure device, and
  methods of fabricating such a foam, is described in U.S. Published Application No. 2009/0093550
  to Rolfes et al., the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
            A method of performing a surgical procedure 800 using a wound closure device in
  accordance with preferred embodiments of the invention as illustrated in Fig. 10A. After
5 preparation 800 of the patient for surgery, an incision is made 820 to expose the surgical site,
  typically in the abdomen. After the procedure is performed, the wound is prepared 830 for closure.
  The proper size and shape of the wound closure device is selected 840 with the peripheral tissue
  attachment members positioned around the circumference or outer wall surface of the device. The
  device is inserted 850 into the wound and the tissue attachment elements are inserted 860 into the
0 tissue. Negative pressure is then applied 870 to exert a closure force on the wound edges.
  Depending on the particular application, large wounds may require placement 880 of a smaller
   second closure after removal of the first larger device. Finally, the device is removed 890 and the
  wound is closed, typically by suturing.
                                                      -17-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
           In a preferred embodiment in which tissue anchors are not used, a method 900 for wound
  closure is described in connection with Fig. 10B. In this embodiment the patient is prepared for
  surgery 910, an incision or other means are used to open or expose 920 the wound and the
  procedure is performed 930. The wound closure device suited for the shape of the wound is
  selected 940 and inserted 950 into the wound. In this embodiment, the wound closure device flexes
  or expands under its inherent expansion characteristics to contact the wound margins. The wound
  is then sealed 960 and negative pressure is applied 970. Sufficient negative pressure is applied so
  that the expansion force exerted by the device on the wound margin is less than the closure force
  applied to the wound and the device such that the wound closes at a controlled rate. This provides a
  procedure in which the device maintains contact with the wound margin and thereby reduces the
  occurrence of typing of the device within the wound during closure. As in prior embodiments, the
  device can be replaced 980 as needed prior to wound closure 990, however, the need for
  replacement is reduced by preventing the formation of gaps between the wound margins and the
  device.
           Certain types of wounds that can be treated with negative pressure wound therapy involve
  the separation by incision of subcutaneous tissue to form a wound opening. This procedure is
  frequently used to access underlying structures, organs or injuries. The lateral displacement of
  subcutaneous tissue can contribute additional difficulties for the treatment of the resulting wound.
           Illustrated in Fig. 11 A is a wound incision 900 in which tissue region 906,908 have been
  separated to access an underlying tissue region 902 for treatment. The lateral displacement of
  regions 906, 908 from their respective positions overlying region 902 has caused further separation
  between the displaced regions 906, 908 and the underlying structure. In the case of an open
  abdominal wound, the underlying structure can be the large and small intestines, which can be
  subject to infection and/or elevated fluid pressure.
5          Additionally, there can be separation between the fascia 909, 911 and abdominal muscle
  and the overlying subcutaneous tissue 906, 908. Consequently in Fig. 11 A, the system can
  optionally include three components, the pad 907 positioned between the abdominal cavity 902 and
  the fascia that can be used to permit sliding movement and utilize negative pressure, secondly, a
  seroma pad 925, described in greater detail hereinafter, positioned between the fascia and overlying
0 tissue and, thirdly, the wound closure element 918. The negative pressure region 918 can be in
  fluid communication with the underlying layer 925, which extends laterally to sections 914 and 915
  which are situated between overlying tissue 906, 908, respectively, and the underlying abdominal
  muscle and fascia structure 911, 909. One or both sides of the sections 914, 916 can have tissue
                                                      -18-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  anchors 926, 928 as described previously. Dotted line 921 indicates a region through which
  negative pressure is applied to all three layers.
           After insertion of layer 925, the compressible wound closure element 918 is inserted
  followed by sealing drape 905 and the closer device 940 and fluid control tube 942. The pad 907
  operates to drain fluid 910 from the abdominal cavity by negative pressure through elements 925
  and 918.
           In the case where adjoining tissues need treatment utilizing negative pressure or require
  stabilization such as by pad 925, a wound treatment system can be used in combination with the
  systems and methods described herein. Shown in Fig. 11 B is a top view of a system utilizing a
  negative pressure closure system 918 as described generally herein and a seroma pad or tissue
  adhesion element 925. The shape of pad 925 can also be circular and be without apertures or tissue
  anchors, for example. The number of drains can be in a range of 6-10 that extend in a radial
  direction with uniform angular spacing between the drain elements.
           Thus a preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a pad or surgical drain
  device 925 for the prevention and treatment of seromas as well as for general use in promoting
  drainage of surgical wounds and wound closure. The drain device can include a plurality of drain
  tubes 935 disposed on a substrate termed an "adhesion matrix," which is designed to promote tissue
  adhesion within the seroma or wound space. The adhesion matrix has a conformable configuration
  and is made of a compliant material having planar surfaces that can bend to adapt to the shape of
  the wound space.
           In a preferred embodiment, the adhesion matrix contains a plurality of apertures 927, or
  gaps in the matrix material, which allow tissue contact across the matrix, so as to promote adhesion
  and wound closure. Thus, a tissue surface on a first side of the matrix can directly contact a tissue
  surface on a second, or opposite, side of the matrix to promote rapid healing and stabilization of the
5 wound. The number, size and distribution of the apertures 927 extending through the matrix can be
  selected based on the geometry of the wound. For abdominal wounds, for example, the drain tubes
  can be positioned in a fan shaped array with a plurality of three or more tubes extending from a
  manifold. The matrix and/or the tubing can be cut or shaped by the user to conform to the shape of
  the wound. The matrix can also be used as a medication carrier to assist in the administration of a
0 drug to a patient. The matrix can optionally include a layer of adhesive on at least a portion of any
  of its surfaces. The drain tubes can be removed from the device once drainage flow is sufficiently
  reduced, and the adhesion matrix can remain within the body, where it is degraded and absorbed
  over time, remaining in place to optimize tissue healing. The matrix can comprise a porous
  biodegradable polymer material. As the plurality of tubes extend from a single exit site into the
                                                    -19-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  wound with spaced apart distal ends, a user can readily remove all the tubes simultaneously from
  the wound.
           As shown in more detail in Fig. 1 IC, the surgical drain device 925 can include a tissue
  anchoring system, whereby the device is mechanically attached to surrounding tissues by an array
  of surface barbs or hooks 926, 928. These surface structures can be located on any exposed surface
  of the adhesion matrix. When the device is implanted, the surrounding tissues can be pressed
  against the barbs or hooks to embed them within the tissue and anchor the device. The use of
  surface barbs or hooks can be used in combination with a surgical adhesive, providing a much
  stronger bond between tissue layers than the adhesive alone, and providing temporary adhesion
  while the adhesive sets. The structure of the hooks can have various forms depending on the tissue
  they are intended to bind. Longer hooks can be used for loosely bound tissues such as fat or
  connective tissue, while shorter hooks can be used for denser tissues such as muscle. Anchors with
  more rigid stems can be utilized to penetrate denser tissues.
           Another aspect of the invention is a system for surgical wound drainage. The system
  includes the drain device coupled to a wound closure device 918 as described generally herein
  together with a vacuum source, such as a pump, and a tube connecting the vacuum source to the
  drain tubes of the drain device. The system optionally also can include a fluid trap to collect
  drained fluid and a control unit to monitor and control the application of vacuum and the collection
  of fluid. Further components of the system can include a vacuum or pressure gauge, a flow meter,
  and a computer to monitor vacuum and flow and to regulate vacuum or flow. The pressure
  measurement can be used to control the level of applied pressure using a feedback control circuit.
  The wound closure device 918 can include the endoskeleton structure as described herein having
  external ribs extending from the outer surface and flexure arms or beams that have an intrinsic
  restoring force that varies as a function of position of each flexure element. The different flexure
5 elements can have different restoring force depending upon their position within the structure as
  shown in Figs. 2A-3C, for example. The endoskeleton accommodates expansion to fill the wound
  cavity and will collapse in a well-defined manner in response to the collapse of the wound under
  negative pressure. As described herein, foam or other filler material can be used within the flexure
  system. The endoskeleton can have a multilayered structure with the different layers collapsing
0 along individual planes of the three dimensional structure within the wound without tilting of the
  structure.
           Another aspect of the invention is a method for treating or preventing a seroma, or
  promoting the drainage or closure of a surgical wound. The method includes positioning the drain
  device described above into a seroma, or a surgical wound, such as a wound at risk of forming a
                                                     -20-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  seroma, and allowing the device to drain fluid from the wound for a period of time. The device can
  include surgical adhesive and/or barbs or hooks on its surface to create adhesion between tissue
  layers within the wound and to anchor the device in place. Drainage can be by gravity flow or can
  be vacuum assisted by attaching a vacuum source to the drain tubes of the device, using a manifold
  to merge the flow paths of the drain tubes to a common drain tube for collection. Negative pressure
  applied to the drain tubes can be used to hold the tissue layers above and below the device together
  until a surgical adhesive has set, or until the wound healing process binds the tissues together. The
  application of negative pressure further facilitates contact between tissue on opposite sides of the
  matrix through the apertures in the matrix to promote tissue adhesion. This improves the rate of
  healing while at the same time providing for drainage. Optionally, the drain tubes of the device
  have apertures 933 extending along their length and can be removed from the body after drainage
  flow is reduced, thereby reducing the burden for resorption by the body. Removal of the drain
  tubes can be facilitated by the inclusion of drain tube channels, or drain tube release tabs, within the
  adhesion matrix. Release of the drain tubes is then accomplished by sliding the tubes out of the
  channels or appropriately maneuvering the drain tube assembly to break release tabs. The adhesion
  matrix is allowed to remain in the seroma or surgical wound where it is resorbed over time.
           The flow rate from the drain tubes can be regulated by flow control elements. The flow rate
  can also be measured or the pressure of fluids can be measured by ultrasound devices or by other
  methods. The system can also be used in conjunction with wound dressings that can also be
  attached to a negative pressure source to remove fluids from the wound.
           A preferred embodiment of the of the invention includes a negative pressure wound closure
  device 1000 for the treatment of surgically repaired ulcers as shown in Fig. 12. This type of wound
  often is characterized by a narrower wound opening 1001 that can have a generally circular or oval
  shape. The surgeon can use this opening to access tissue that must be removed to form a cavity
5 1005 that extends laterally. A first wound closure element 1007 extends laterally to regions 1012,
  1015 which can include tissue anchors 1014, 1016 that serve to attach regions 1012, 1015 to tissue
  flaps 1004, 1006 above the regions 1012, 1015, respectively, as well as the underlying tissue 1026.
  The anchors 928 can also extend in a lateral direction. The second wound closure element 1020, as
  described previously, is in fluid communication with adhesion elements 1007, and enables the
0 application of negative pressure to the channels 935 of regions 1012, 1015 that can be employed in
  the embodiment of Fig. 12. The closure element can include apertures 927 that allow for tissue
  contact through regions 1012 and 1015 as these elements compress under negative pressure.
           Illustrated in Fig. 13 is a sensor system 180, 182 for measuring wound closure force that
  can be exerted on the side walls of the tissue being drawn together. The sensor elements 180, 182
                                                      -21-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
  can be mounted to the internal flexible frame 108 or endoskeleton of the system and measure the
  amount of force exerted laterally on the tissue. For example, as the level of negative pressure
  applied to wound closure element 100 is increased, the sensors measure the increased force exerted
  on the tissue by anchors 106. Additional sensor elements can be mounted on the sidewalls of
  device 100, to measure the force distribution across the sidewalls. The flexure elements 108 can
  have a selected resiliency to enable controlled collapse of the device 100.
           Shown in Fig. 14 is a pressure sensor system positioned to measure the pressure on
  underlying tissue. The sensor elements 320, 322 can measure pressure at the sliding interface 303
  or at the bottom of panel 301, which can measure the amount of negative pressure at the tissue
  interface such as in the abdominal cavity. This can be used to monitor downward pressure on the
  abdominal cavity that can arise during compression of structure 104.
           The systems in Fig. 13 and Fig. 14 can optionally include a feedback control system 1200
  that controls a level and/or distribution of negative pressure within the system. Such a feedback
  system 1200 is shown in connection with Fig. 15. Sensors 180, 182 can be connected to processor
  housing 360 using cable 350 and pressure sensors 320 and/or 322 can measure fluid pressure such
  that sensor data are transmitted to processor housing 360 using cable 352. A data processor 366
  can be programmed to adjust the applied pressure via tube 121 to prevent injury to the patient and
  optimize the rate of wound healing. Data can be displayed on display 362 and a control panel 364
  provides a user interface for operation of the system.
           Fig. 16A illustrates a further exemplary embodiments of a wound closure device 2100 of
  the present invention. The device 2100 includes a wound filler material 2102 that is sized and
  shaped to fit within a wound opening 2201 of a human or animal patient. The device 2100 is
  further associated with a negative pressure source 2120, such as described with respect to Figs.
  1A-IF, which may be coupled to the filler material 2102, e.g., by a suitable coupling or conduit.
5 As noted above, negative pressure source 2120 can be activated to apply a negative pressure to
  the filler material 2102. In general, the negative pressure causes a resulting pressure differential
  which causes the device 2100 to contract or "collapse."
           Fig. 16B depicts a pull apart view of the exemplary wound closure device 2100 of Fig.
  16A. The exemplary device 2102 advantageously includes a stabilizing structure 2101, e.g., an
0 endoskeleton structure such as described above, and a collapsible filler material 2102, e.g., foam
  or other filler material as described herein, over the stabilizing structure 2101. As depicted the
  filler material 2102 includes a plurality of sections of 2102A-D, configured for association with
  (e.g., sized and shaped to match) each of a top surface 2101A, a bottom surface 2101B, a first
  side surface 2101C and a second side surface 2101D of the stabilizing structure or moveable
                                                     -22-

      WO 2014/014842                                                           PCT/US2013/050558
  frame 2101. Thus, the sections 2102A-D of the filler material 2102 cooperate to surround the
  stabilizing structure 2101, e.g., forming a shell around the stabilizing structure 2101, such as
  depicted in Fig. 17. The device can have a covering layer 2105 that is used to contact at least
  the wound margins so that the layer extends around the external surface of the filler 2102. In
  exemplary embodiments, the stabilizing structure 2101 and the sections 2102A-D of the filler
  material 2102 may be configured to define a cavity for facilitating application of a negative
  pressure to device 2100, e.g., using negative pressure source 2120.
           In some embodiments, each section 2102A, 2102B, 2102C or 2102D of the filler
  material 2102 can define a plurality of surface features 2103 on the inner peripheral surface
  thereof. For example, each of the depicted sections 2102A, 2102B, 2102C or 2102D of
  compressible material 2102 defines an "egg crate" pattern of protrusions 2103A and 2103B
  valleys. Advantageously, the surface features 2103 defined on the inner peripheral surface of
  the sections 2102A-D of the filler material 2102 may be configured for operative association
  with an inner volume of stabilizing structure 2101.
           As described in previous sections, each surface 2101A, 2101B, 2101C or 2101D of the
  stabilizing structure 2101 may define a lattice pattern of structural elements including frame or
  stabilizer elements in the x-y plane (such as stabilizer elements 2108 of Figs. 1A- IF) and
  stabilizer elements in the z axis (such as stabilizer elements 2110 of Figs. 1A- IF). Thus, the
  surface features 2103 defined on the inner peripheral surface of each section 2102A, 2102B,
  2102C or 2102D of the filler material 2102 may be configured, e.g., patterned, to match the
  lattice pattern of the corresponding surface 2101A, 2101B, 2101C or 2101D of the structural
  element 2101. For example, as depicted in Fig. 16, the surface features 2103 defined on the
  inner peripheral surface of the top and bottom sections 2102A and 2102B are configured such
  that the valleys 2103B correspond to the stabilizer elements in the x-y plane. Similarly, the
5 surface features 2103 defined on the inner peripheral surface of the first and second side sections
  2102C and 2102D are configured such that the valleys 2103B correspond to the stabilizer
  elements in the z axis. Thus the protrusions 2103A or pattern elements extend into an inner
  volume of the structural element 2101, thereby providing tensile forces to the stabilizing
  structure 2101, e.g., during the collapse thereof. In exemplary embodiments, the filler material
0 2101 may be configured to provide a pre-stress to the stabilizing structure 2101.
           In some embodiments, the tensile forces applied by protrusions 2103a may facilitate a
  structured collapse of the structural element 2101, e.g., in one or more directions. For example,
  the surface features 2103 defined on the inner peripheral surface of each section 2102A, 2102B,
  2102C or 2102D of the filler material 2102 may be configured to impart a pre-selected force
                                                    -23-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  profile to the stabilizing structure 2101, e.g., during the collapse thereof. In some embodiments,
  the pre-selected force profile may control the collapse of the structural element 2101, e.g.,
  providing for a non-uniform collapse of filler material such as by resisting collapse in one or
  more directions and/or in one or more regions. With reference to Figs. 18A-18B, different force
  profile configurations for individual protrusions or elements 2103A are depicted. In Fig. 18A
  the protrusion 2103A is configured to resist compression of the associated stabilizer elements
  2108 of the structural element 2101 in both x and y directions. Thus, the protrusion is
  configured to provide uniform tensile forces to the stabilizing structure 2101, e.g., during the
  collapse thereof, in both the x and y axis. In Fig. 18B, the protrusion 2103A is configured to
  provide greater compression resistance of the associated stabilizer elements 2108 of the
  structural element in the y direction than in the x direction. Thus, the protrusion is configured to
  provide greater tensile forces to the stabilizing structure 2101, e.g., during the collapse thereof,
  in the y axis than in the x axis. In Fig. 18C a smaller protrusion 2103A is used to provide a
  delayed or a lower resistance to compression relative to the larger protrusion 2103A. The
  pattern elements from adjacent regions within the frame preferably contact each other to
  facilitate fluid flow under negative pressure. Thus, some regions of the stabilizing structure
  2101 can be configured to collapse earlier or quicker than other regions while maintaining fluid
  flow.
           With reference to Fig. 19, exemplary embodiments, side sections 2102C and 2102D of
  the filler material 2102 may include a tissue grasping surface 2104, such as tissue grasping
  surface 2104 of Figs. lA-IF, extending over an outer peripheral surface of the wound filler
  material 2102. Note alternatively, that a separate covering layer of material such as a film or
  mesh as described previously can extend around the outer surfaces of the wound filler. This
  layer can also include tissue anchors in a further preferred embodiment as described herein such
5 that the device can adhere to the wound margins. Tissue grasping surface 2104 may be an
  integral part of the filler material or may be a separate layer, e.g., secured to the filler material
  2102 using any suitable technique. In exemplary embodiments, grasping surface 2104 may
  include a plurality of tissue anchor elements 2106 configured to engage the tissue at a wound
  margin. Thus, with reference to Fig. 20A, when the filler material 2102 is placed within a
0 wound 2200, the anchor elements 2106 become buried within the tissue at the wound margins
  2203 and secure the device 2100 within the wound opening 2201. As the filler material 2102
  contracts, the tissue grasping surface 2104 grabs and pulls on the adjacent tissue, which is
  preferably the tissue around the wound margins 2203, resulting in the displacement of the tissue
  thereby facilitating the closure of the wound.
                                                     -24-

   WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
        While the invention has been described in connection with specific methods and apparatus,
those skilled in the art will recognize other equivalents to the specific embodiments herein. It is to
be understood that the description is by way of example and not as a limitation to the scope of the
invention and these equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the claims set forth below.
                                                   -25-

      WO 2014/014842                                                              PCT/US2013/050558
                                                       CLAIMS
  What is claimed is:
  1.       A negative pressure wound closure device, comprising:
           a moveable structure that is adapted to be positioned relative to a wound opening;
           a wound filler material that is positioned within the wound opening such that the structure
  preferentially contracts along at least a first direction relative to a second direction upon application
  of a negative pressure to the wound filler material; and
           a fluid drain device in fluid communication with the wound filler material such that fluid
  can be drained from the fluid drain device through the wound filler material upon application of
  negative pressure.
  2.       The wound closure device of claim 1 further comprising a tissue anchor device that attaches
  the moveable structure to a wound margin of the wound opening.
  3.       The wound closure device of claim 1 further comprising a tissue grasping surface extending
  over an outer peripheral surface of the wound filler material and comprising a plurality of outward
  projecting tissue anchors that contact tissue at a margin of the wound opening and displace the
  tissue at the wound margin upon application of the negative pressure to the filler material to
  facilitate closure of the wound.
  4.       The wound closure device of claim 1, further comprising a negative pressure source that is
  coupled to the wound filler material and the fluid drain device, the fluid drain device comprising a
  seroma pad.
5
  5.       The wound closure device of claim 1, wherein the wound filler material comprises a porous
  material.
  6.       The wound closure device of claim 1, wherein the wound filler material comprises a foam.
0
  7.       The wound closure device of claim 1, wherein tissue anchors are integrally formed in the
  wound filler material.
                                                      -26-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  8.      The wound closure device of claim 1, further comprising a layer that is provided about a
  surface of the filler material.
  9.      The wound closure device of claim 8, wherein the layer comprises a mesh material.
  10.     The wound closure device of claim 8, wherein the layer includes a plurality of anchors.
  11.     The wound closure device of claim 1, wherein the moveable structure comprises one or
  more regions of relatively rigid material surrounded by regions of relatively compressible material.
  12.     The wound closure device of claim 10, wherein the filler material has length, width and
  height dimensions, and the structure inhibits collapse in the height dimension.
  13.     The wound closure device of claim 10, wherein the structure promotes collapse of the filler
  material in at least one first direction to effect reapproximation of the wound.
  14.     The wound closure device of claim 10, wherein the structure substantially restricts the
  collapse of the filler material to a plane defined by the wound margins.
  15.     The wound closure device of claim 1, wherein the structure comprises a frame of flexure
  elements positioned over the fluid drain device, and further comprising a pad positioned under the
  fluid drain device that provides for lateral movement of fascia tissue overlying the pad.
  16.     The wound closure device of claim 15, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of spaced
5 apart interconnected flexure elements that bend to collapse in one direction.
  17.     The wound closure device of claim 15, wherein the filler material has length, width and
  height dimensions, and the endoskeleton enables the filler material to collapse in the width
  dimension and elongate in the length dimension.
0
  18.     The wound closure device of claim 15, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of flexible
  elements with at least one internal cavity.
                                                       -27-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  19.      The wound closure device of claim 17, wherein at least a portion of the rigid members
  extending in the height dimension extend around the periphery of the filler material.
  20.      The wound closure device of claim 15, wherein the endoskeleton comprises a network of
  interconnected rigid members that can articulate with respect to one another during collapse of the
  filler material.
  21.      The wound closure device of claim 2, wherein the tissue anchors are integrally formed in an
  endoskeleton.
  22.      The wound closure device of claim 15, wherein the endoskeleton comprises truss members
  to inhibit tilting motion of the filler material.
  23.      The wound closure device of claim 1, further comprising a smooth surface extending over a
  bottom surface of the wound filler material.
  24.      The wound closure device of claim 23, further comprising a plurality of micropores formed
  in the smooth surface to allow the passage of fluid through the bottom surface and into the device
  for removal.
  25.      The wound closure device of claim 24, wherein the micropores hare in fluid communication
  with a layer underneath the wound closure device.
  26.      The wound closure device of claim 1, wherein the layer includes apertures such that tissue
5 on a first side of the pad contacts tissue on a second side of the pad through the aperture.
  27.      The wound closure device of claim 1, further comprising a negative pressure wound
  treatment component coupled to the wound filler material.
0 28.      The wound closure device of claim 27, wherein the wound treatment component connects
  to a negative pressure source and manages the drainage of fluids from the wound site.
  29.      The wound closure device of claim 28, further comprising a sliding surface at the interface
  between the wound closure and fluid management components.
                                                     -28-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  30.      The wound closure device of claim 1, wherein the filler material includes removable
  portions to adjust the size of the wound closure device.
  31.      The wound closure device of claim 30, wherein sets of tissue anchors are embedded in the
  filler material, and become exposed by removing the removable portions.
  32.      The wound closure device of claim 2, wherein the tissue anchors have a force profile that
  varies based on the type of tissue with which the anchors engage.
  33.      The wound closure device of claim 32, wherein the types of tissue include at least one of
  collagen, fat tissue and muscle.
  34.      The wound closure device of claim 2, wherein the tissue anchors have a force profile that
  varies with the depth of the tissue with which the anchors engage.
  35.      The wound closure device of claim 2, further comprising a sensor that measures lateral
  force applied to tissue by a tissue anchor.
  36.      The wound closure device of claim 2, wherein the tissue grasping surface has a force profile
  that varies over at least a portion of the tissue grasping surface.
  37.      The wound closure device of claim 36, wherein the force profile is varied by varying at
  least one of the length of the tissue anchors, the shape of the anchors, the materials of the anchors
5 and the density of the anchors.
  38.      A method of closing a wound, comprising:
           inserting a wound closure device relative to a wound opening, the wound closure device
  comprising a collapsible filler material and a plurality connected flexure elements that move during
0 closure of the margins of the wound; and
           applying a negative pressure to the wound closure device to collapse the filler material and
  displace the tissue at a wound margin to facilitate closure of the wound.
  39.      The method of claim 38, wherein the wound comprises an abdominal wound.
                                                      -29-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  40.     The method of claim 38, wherein the wound comprises a fasciotomy wound.
  41.     The method of claim 38, wherein the wound comprises a mediastinum wound.
  42.     The method of claim 38, further comprising:
          removing fluid from the wound using a fluid management component.
  43.     The method of claim 42, wherein the fluid management component underlies the wound
  closure device, and the filler material collapses without interference from the fluid management
  component.
  44.     The method of claim 38, further comprising activating a negative pressure source coupled
  to the wound closure device to apply the negative pressure.
  45.     The method of claim 38, wherein the filler material comprises a porous material.
  46.     The method of claim 45, wherein the filler material comprises a foam.
  47.     The method of claim 38, further comprising attaching the wound closure device to tissue
  with tissue anchors that are integrally formed in the filler material.
  48.     The method of claim 38, further comprising securing a film over a surface of the filler
  material, the tissue anchors projecting outward from the film.
5
  49.     The method of claim 48, wherein the film comprises a mesh material.
  50.     The method of claim 49, wherein securing the film comprises attaching the film to the filler
  using a plurality of inward facing anchors.
0
  51.     The method of claim 38, wherein the filler material comprises a stabilizing structure to
  enable collapse in at least one first direction and inhibit collapse in at least one second direction.
                                                     -30-

      WO 2014/014842                                                           PCT/US2013/050558
  52.     The method of claim 51, wherein the stabilizing structure comprises a frame with a plurality
  of connected flexure elements.
  53.     The method of claim 52, wherein the filler material has length, width and height
5 dimensions, and the stabilizing structure inhibits collapse in the height dimension.
  54.     The method of claim 51, further comprising collapsing the filler material in at least one first
  direction to reapproximate the wound.
  55.     The method of claim 51, further comprising collapsing of the filler material under negative
  pressure along a plane defined by the wound margins.
  56.     The method of claim 51, wherein the stabilizing structure comprises an endoskeleton made
  from comparatively rigid material.
  57.     The method of claim 56, wherein the endoskeleton comprises a plurality of spaced-apart
  flexure elements extending through parallel planes.
  58.     The method of claim 56, further comprising collapsing the filler material a width dimension
  and elongating the filler material in the length dimension.
  59.     The method of claim 56, further comprising inhibiting collapse of the filler material in the
  height dimension with a plurality of members extending in a height dimension.
5 60.     The method of claim 59, wherein at least a portion of the members extending in the height
  dimension extend around the periphery of the filler material.
  61.     The method of claim 56, wherein the endoskeleton comprises a network of interconnected
  members that can articulate with respect to one another during collapse of the filler material.
0
  62.     The method of claim 56, further comprising using tissue anchors that are integrally formed
  in the endoskeleton.
                                                     -31-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  63.     The method of claim 56, further comprising inhibiting tilting motion of the filler material
  with truss members.
  64.     The method of claim 38, wherein the filler material has a smooth bottom surface.
  65.     The method of claim 64, further comprising removing fluid from the wound through
  micropores formed in the smooth bottom surface.
  66.     The method of claim 65, further comprising directing a distribution of vacuum force by
  varying at least one of the size and pore density of the micropores.
  67.     The method of claim 38, further comprising directing a distribution of vacuum force by
  varying at least one of a pore size and a pore density within the filler material.
5 68.     The method of claim 38, further comprising removing portions of the filler material to
  adjust the size of the wound closure device.
  69.     The method of claim 68, further comprising removing portions of the filler material along
  pre-determined cleavage lines.
  70.     The method of claim 68, further comprising exposing embedded tissue anchors by
  removing portions of the filler material.
  71.     The method of claim 38, further comprising varying a force profile of a plurality of tissue
5 anchors based on the type of tissue with which the anchors engage.
  72.     The method of claim 71, wherein the types of tissue include at least one of collagen, fat
  tissue and muscle.
0 73.     The method of claim 38, further comprising varying a force profile of a plurality of tissue
  anchors based on the depth of the tissue with which the tissue anchors engage.
  74.     The method of claim 38, further comprising varying a force profile of a plurality of tissue
  anchors over a perimeter of the filler material.
                                                    -32-

      WO 2014/014842                                                              PCT/US2013/050558
  75.      The method of claim 38, further comprising varying at least one of the length of the tissue
  anchors, the shape of the anchors, the materials of the anchors and the density of the anchors to
  vary a force profile over the interface between the wound closure device and the wound margin.
  76.      A negative pressure wound closure device, comprising:
           a moveable structure that is adapted to be positioned relative to a wound opening;
           a wound filler material for positioning within the wound opening such that the structure
  preferentially contracts along at least a first direction relative to a second direction upon application
  of a negative pressure to the wound filler material; and
           a sensor that measures a characteristic within the wound opening.
  77.      The wound closure device of claim 76 further comprising a tissue anchor device that
  attaches the moveable structure to a wound margin of the wound opening.
  78.      The wound closure device of claim 76 further comprising a tissue grasping surface
  extending over an outer peripheral surface of the wound filler material and comprising a plurality of
  outward-projecting tissue anchors that contact tissue at a margin of the wound opening and displace
  the tissue at the wound margin upon application of the negative pressure to the filler material to
  facilitate closure of the wound.
  79.      The wound closure device of claim 76, further comprising a negative pressure source that is
  coupled to the wound filler material.
5 80.      The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the wound filler material comprises a
  porous material.
  81.      The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the wound filler material comprises a foam.
0 82.      The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein tissue anchors are integrally formed in the
  wound filler material.
  83.      The wound closure device of claim 76, further comprising a layer that is provided about a
  surface of the filler material.
                                                      -33-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  84.      The wound closure device of claim 83, wherein the layer comprises a mesh material.
  85.      The wound closure device of claim 83, wherein the layer includes a plurality of anchors.
  86.      The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the stabilizing structure comprises one or
  more regions of relatively rigid material surrounded by regions of relatively compressible material.
  87.      The wound closure device of claim 85, wherein the filler material has length, width and
  height dimensions, and the stabilizing structure inhibits collapse in the height dimension.
  88.      The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the stabilizing structure promotes collapse
  of the filler material in at least one first direction to effect reapproximation of the wound.
  89.      The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the stabilizing structure substantially
  restricts the collapse of the filler material to a plane defined by the wound margins.
  90.      The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the stabilizing structure comprises a frame
  of flexure elements.
  91.      The wound closure device of claim 90, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of spaced
  apart interconnected flexure elements that bend to collapse in one direction.
  92.      The wound closure device of claim 90, wherein the filler material has length, width and
5 height dimensions, and the endoskeleton enables the filler material to collapse in the width
  dimension and elongate in the length dimension.
  93.      The wound closure device of claim 90, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of flexible
  elements with at least one internal cavity.
0
  94.      The wound closure device of claim 92, wherein at least a portion of the rigid members
  extending in the height dimension extend around the periphery of the filler material.
                                                        -34-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  95.      The wound closure device of claim 90, wherein the endoskeleton comprises a network of
  interconnected rigid members that can articulate with respect to one another during collapse of the
  filler material.
  96.      The wound closure device of claim 77, wherein the tissue anchors are integrally formed in
  an endoskeleton.
  97.      The wound closure device of claim 90, wherein the endoskeleton comprises truss members
  to inhibit tilting motion of the filler material.
  98.      The wound closure device of claim 76, further comprising a smooth surface extending over
  a bottom surface of the wound filler material.
  99.      The wound closure device of claim 98, further comprising a plurality of micropores formed
  in the smooth surface to allow the passage of fluid through the bottom surface and into the device
  for removal.
  100.     The wound closure device of claim 99, wherein the micropores hare in fluid communication
  with a layer underneath the wound closure device.
  101.     The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the layer includes apertures such that tissue
  on a first side of the pad contacts tissue on a second side of the pad through the aperture.
  102.     The wound closure device of claim 76, further comprising a negative pressure wound
5 treatment component coupled to the wound filler material.
  103.     The wound closure device of claim 102, wherein the wound treatment component connects
  to a negative pressure source and manages the drainage of fluids from the wound site.
0 104.     The wound closure device of claim 103, further comprising a sliding surface at the interface
  between the wound closure and fluid management components.
  105.     The wound closure device of claim 76, wherein the filler material includes removable
  portions to adjust the size of the wound closure device.
                                                     -35-

      WO 2014/014842                                                            PCT/US2013/050558
  106.     The wound closure device of claim 105, wherein sets of tissue anchors are embedded in the
  filler material, and become exposed by removing the removable portions.
  107.     The wound closure device of claim 77, wherein the tissue anchors have a force profile that
  varies based on the type of tissue with which the anchors engage.
  108.     The wound closure device of claim 107, wherein the types of tissue include at least one of
  collagen, fat tissue and muscle.
  109.     The wound closure device of claim 77, wherein the tissue anchors have a force profile that
  varies with the depth of the tissue with which the anchors engage.
  110.     The wound closure device of claim 77, further comprising a sensor that measures lateral
  force applied to tissue by a tissue anchor.
  111.     The wound closure device of claim 77, wherein the tissue grasping surface has a force
  profile that varies over at least a portion of the tissue grasping surface.
  112.     The wound closure device of claim 111, wherein the force profile is varied by varying at
  least one of the length of the tissue anchors, the shape of the anchors, the materials of the anchors
  and the density of the anchors.
  113.     The device of claim 76 wherein the sensor measures a lateral force imparted to a wound
5 margin.
  114.     The device of claim 76 wherein the sensor comprises a force sensor mounted on the
  moveable structure.
0 115.     The device of claim 76 wherein the sensor comprises a pressure sensor.
  116.     The device of claim 115 wherein the pressure sensor measures a fluid pressure within the
  wound opening.
                                                       -36-

      WO 2014/014842                                                           PCT/US2013/050558
  117.    The device of claim 76 wherein the sensor measures pressure on abdominal tissue
  underlying the wound opening.
  118.    The device of claim 76 wherein the sensor generates data transmitted to a data processor.
  119.    The device of claim 76 further comprising a computer program.
  120.    A method of closing a wound, comprising:
          inserting a wound closure device relative to a wound opening, the wound closure device
  comprising a collapsible filler material and a plurality connected flexure elements that move during
  closure of the margins of the wound;
          applying a negative pressure to the wound closure device to collapse the filler material and
  displace the tissue at a wound margin to facilitate closure of the wound; and
          measuring pressure within the wound with a sensor.
  121.    The method of claim 120, wherein the wound comprises an abdominal wound.
  122.    The method of claim 120, wherein the wound comprises a fasciotomy wound.
  123.    The method of claim 120, wherein the wound comprises a mediastinum wound.
  124.    The method of claim 120, further comprising:
          removing fluid from the wound using a fluid management component.
5 125.    The method of claim 124, wherein the fluid management component underlies the wound
  closure device, and the filler material collapses without interference from the fluid management
  component.
  126.    The method of claim 120, further comprising activating a negative pressure source coupled
0 to the wound closure device to apply the negative pressure.
  127.    The method of claim 120, wherein the filler material comprises a porous material.
  128.    The method of claim 120, wherein the filler material comprises a foam.
                                                    -37-

      WO 2014/014842                                                               PCT/US2013/050558
  129.     The method of claim 120, further comprising attaching the wound closure device to tissue
  with tissue anchors that are integrally formed in the filler material.
5 130.     The method of claim 120, further comprising securing a film over a surface of the filler
  material, wherein a plurality of tissue anchors projecting outward from the film.
  131.     The method of claim 130, wherein the film comprises a mesh material.
  132.     The method of claim 130, wherein securing the film comprises attaching the film to the
  filler using a plurality of inward facing anchors.
  133.     The method of claim 120, wherein the plurality of flexure elements comprises a stabilizing
  structure to enable collapse in at least one first direction and inhibit collapse in at least one second
  direction.
  134.     The method of claim 133, wherein the stabilizing structure comprises a frame with a
  plurality of hinged flexure elements.
  135.     The method of claim 133, wherein the filler material has length, width and height
  dimensions, and the stabilizing structure inhibits collapse in the height dimension.
  136.     The method of claim 120, further comprising collapsing the filler material in at least one
  first direction to reapproximate the wound.
5
  137.     The method of claim 120, further comprising collapsing of the filler material under negative
  pressure along a plane defined by the wound margins.
  138.     The method of claim 133, wherein the stabilizing structure comprises an endoskeleton made
0 from comparatively rigid material.
  139.     The method of claim 120, wherein the endoskeleton comprises a plurality of spaced-apart
  flexure elements extending through parallel planes.
                                                      -38-

     WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
  140.    The method of claim 120, further comprising collapsing the filler material a width
  dimension and elongating the filler material in the length dimension.
  141.    The method of claim 120, further comprising inhibiting collapse of the filler material in the
  height dimension with a plurality of members extending in a height dimension.
  142.    The method of claim 120, wherein at least a portion of the members extending in the height
  dimension extend around the periphery of the filler material.
  143.    The method of claim 120, wherein the endoskeleton comprises a network of interconnected
  members that can articulate with respect to one another during collapse of the filler material.
  144.    The method of claim 120, further comprising attaching tissue anchors that are integrally
  formed in the endoskeleton to the wound margin.
  145.    The method of claim 120, further comprising inhibiting tilting motion of the filler material
  with truss members.
  146.    The method of claim 120, wherein the filler material has a smooth bottom surface.
  147.    The method of claim 146, further comprising removing fluid from the wound through
  micropores formed in the smooth bottom surface.
  148.    The method of claim 120, further comprising directing a distribution of vacuum force by
5 varying at least one of the size and pore density of the micropores.
  149.    The method of claim 120, further comprising directing a distribution of vacuum force by
  varying at least one of a pore size and a pore density within the filler material.
0 150.    The method of claim 120, further comprising removing portions of the filler material to
  adjust the size of the wound closure device for positioning within a wound opening.
  151.    The method of claim 150, further comprising removing portions of the filler material along
  pre-determined cleavage lines.
                                                    -39-

      WO 2014/014842                                                          PCT/US2013/050558
  152.    The method of claim 150, further comprising exposing embedded tissue anchors by
  removing portions of the filler material.
  153.    The method of claim 120, further comprising varying a force profile of a plurality of tissue
  anchors based on the type of tissue with which the anchors engage.
  154.    The method of claim 153, wherein the types of tissue include at least one of collagen, fat
  tissue and muscle.
  155.    The method of claim 120, further comprising varying a force profile of a plurality of tissue
  anchors based on the depth of the tissue with which the tissue anchors engage.
  156.    The method of claim 120, further comprising varying a force profile of a plurality of tissue
  anchors over a perimeter of the filler material.
  157.    The method of claim 120, further comprising varying at least one of the length of the tissue
  anchors, the shape of the anchors, the materials of the anchors and the density of the anchors to
  vary a force profile over the interface between the wound closure device and the wound margin.
  158.    The method of claim 120 further comprising measuring lateral force on a wound margin
  with the sensor.
  159.    The method of claim 120 further comprising measuring fluid pressure within the wound
5 opening with the sensor.
  160.    The method of claim 120 further comprising controlling a negative pressure source in
  response to sensor data from the sensor.
0 161.    The method of claim 120 further comprising measuring sensor data with a sensor mounted
  on the wound closure device.
  162.    A negative pressure wound closure device, comprising:
          a moveable structure that contracts upon application of negative pressure to a wound; and
                                                    -40-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
           a wound filler material positioned within moveable structure, the filler material including
  a plurality of filler elements, at least a portion of each filler element extending into the moveable
  structure, the wound closure device being adapted to fit within a wound opening.
  163.     The device of claim 162, wherein the stabilizing structure is formed of a material which has
  greater rigidity than the filler material.
  164.     The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material is a collapsible filler material.
  165.     The device of claim 162, wherein the structure is surrounded by the filler material.
  166.     The device of claim 162, wherein the structure is surrounded by a plurality of regions of the
  filler material.
  167.     The device of claim 162, wherein the structure stabilizes the filler material within the
  wound and is adapted to enable collapse in a first direction.
  168.     The device of claim 167, wherein the stabilizing structure is adapted to enable collapse in a
  first direction.
  169.     The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material is adapted to inhibit collapse in a first
  direction.
  170.     The device of claim 167, wherein the stabilizing structure is adapted to inhibit collapse in a
  second direction.
  171.     The device of claim 167, wherein the stabilizing structure comprises an endoskeleton.
  172.     The device of claim 162, wherein the structure is embedded within the filler material.
0 173.     The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material is a foam material.
  174.     The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material is an open cell foam material.
  175.     The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material is molded around the stabilizing
  structure.
  176.     The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material is cut or trimmed to a shape adapted for
5 placement in an open wound.
  177.     The device of claim 162, wherein the wound closure device is shaped to fit within a wound
  opening.
                                                     -41-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
  178.    The device of claim 162, wherein the filler elements are formed over the stabilizing
  structure.
  179.    The device of claim 162, further including a tissue grasping surface extending over an outer
  peripheral surface of at least a portion of the wound filler material.
5 180.    The device of claim 179, wherein the tissue grasping surface includes a plurality of
  outward-projecting tissue anchors adapted for contacting tissue at a margin of the wound opening.
  181.    The device of claim 179, wherein the tissue grasping surface is adapted to displace the
  tissue at the wound margin upon application of a negative pressure to the filler material to facilitate
  closure of the wound.
  182.    The device of claim 179, wherein the tissue grasping surface is integrally formed with the
  filler material.
  183.    The device of claim 179, further comprising a negative pressure device operatively
  associated with the moveable structure and filler material.
  184.    The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material has length, width and height
5 dimensions, and the stabilizing structure inhibits collapse in the height dimension.
  185.    The device of claim 162, wherein the structure promotes collapse of the filler material in at
  least one first direction to effect reapproximation of the wound.
  186.    The device of claim 162, wherein the structure inhibits the collapse of the filler material to a
  plane defined by the wound margins.
0 187.    The device of claim 162, wherein the filler material has length, width and height
  dimensions, and the stabilizing structure enables the filler material to collapse in the width
  dimension and elongate in the length dimension.
  188.    The device of claim 162, wherein the stabilizing structure defines at least one internal
  cavity.
5 189.    The device of claim 162 further comprising a sensor mounted to the moveable structure.
  190.    The device of claim 189 wherein the sensor measures fluid pressure within the wound.
  191.    A method for producing a negative pressure wound closure device, the method comprising:
                                                     -42-

      WO 2014/014842                                                             PCT/US2013/050558
           configuring a filler material with a moveable structure, the filler material having a plurality
  of filler elements extending into the moveable structure form a wound closure device, the wound
  closure device being adapted to fit within a wound opening such that fluid is removed from the
  wound opening through the plurality of filler elements upon application of negative pressure.
  192.     The method of claim 191, wherein the configuring of the filler material with the structure
  includes surrounding the structure with the filler material.
  193.     The method of claim 191, wherein the configuring of the filler material around structure
  includes surrounding the stabilizing structure with a plurality of regions of the filler material.
  194.     The method of claim 191, wherein the configuring a filler material around stabilizing
  structure includes embedding the stabilizing structure in the filler material.
  195.     The method of claim 191, wherein the configuring a filler material around stabilizing
  structure includes molding the filler material around the stabilizing structure.
  196.     The method of claim 191, wherein the configuring a filler material around stabilizing
  structure includes cutting or trimming the filler material to a finished shape.
  197.     The method of claim 191, wherein the configuring a filler material around stabilizing
  structure includes forming the filler material over the stabilizing structure.
  198.     The method of claim 191 wherein a filler element has a pattern of elements, said pattern
  elements extending between frame elements of the moveable structure.
  199.     The method of claim 198 wherein pattern elements on a first filler element are in fluid
0 communication with pattern elements on a second filler element to facilitate removal of fluid from
  the wound under negative pressure.
  200.     The method of claim 191 further comprising attaching one or more filler elements to a
  wound margin with tissue anchors.
5
                                                    -43-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
