                                          ABSTRACT
          A water treatment module, and apparatus and method using such a module, to
  create a water and ozone mix are described. A water flow tube made of UV transparent
5 material, in use, receives a flow of water having a gas containing oxygen introduced
  upstream of the tube and discharges the ozone containing water from the other end of the
  tube. A discharge lamp surrounds the tube and comprises a sleeve of larger diameter
  than the water flow tube, the sleeve being sealed to the outer surface of the tube so as to
  define a sealed gas chamber surrounding the tube. Electrodes are provided inside the
o sleeve with electrical connections thereto external to the sleeve. The sealed chamber
  contains an active composition, such as an argon / mercury composition, which when
  power is supplied to the electrodes generates UV radiation and emits it through the wall
  of the water flow tube into the water flowing in the tube in use.
                                            8

      7Z,4
Elx
    I    ~

                                 PRODUCTION OF OZONE WATER MIX
        The present invention relates to creating a water and ozone mix.
        It is known to introduce ozone into water for a number of purposes. For example in water
   treatment systems, such as treatment of wastewater, ozone is known to be effective for example
 5 in reducing the BOD of wastewater or in final disinfecting treated water before discharge to the
   environment. Another use of water having ozone mixed into the water is to stimulate plant
   growth, e.g. in horticultural applications. However the introduction of ozone into water can be
   difficult because ozone is sparingly soluble and is somewhat unstable and dissociates before
   being used.
 o      It is known to create the water and ozone mix by generating ozone in a dedicated apparatus
   using for example UV radiation to irradiate air or oxygen enriched air or pure oxygen after
   which the gas with ozone therein is introduced into the water to be treated or to be used, e.g. by
   introducing the ozone containing gas through a sparger or through injection at a venturi into a
   flowing water stream. It is also known to immerse UV lamps in water to be treated which can
 5 have some oxygen content and, as the water flows past the immersed UV lamp or lamps, some
   ozone can be generated in the water although the UV radiation itself is the primary treatment
   agent in these systems.
        The above references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not intended to
   be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of common general knowledge in
 o the art in Australia.
        It is an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus for creating an ozone and
   water mix which can be effective in use and which at least provides a useful alternative to the
   known systems outlined above.
        It is a further object of the invention to provide an effective method of producing an ozone
25 and water mix.
        A yet further object is to provide a water treatment module for use in creating an ozone and
   water mix.
        According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for generating
   ozone in water, the apparatus including:
30      oxygen introducing means at or downstream of the oxygen introducing means and operative
   to introduce a gas containing oxygen to the water,
        a water flow passage along which, in use, the water flows, the passage having a UV
   transparent portion of the wall of the passage, and
                                                       1

            a UV source operative to direct through the transparent portion and into the water UV
   radiation of a wavelength to cause generation of ozone from oxygen introduced into the water,
   the UV source comprising a discharge lamp having electrodes to be supplied with power to
   stimulate and energise the emission of UV radiation by the discharge lamp into the water.
 5      Preferably the discharge lamp is comprised by a sleeve surrounding the water flow passage,
   the sleeve being sealed at opposite ends thereof to the outside surface of the water flow passage
   and so as to define with the outside surface of the water flow passage a sealed chamber
   containing the active material having a composition to be stimulated by the application of power
   to the electrodes to generate UV radiation. The electrodes may comprise filaments to be
 o supplied with power to heat the electrodes and facilitate the initiation and maintenance of the
   discharge in the lamp.
        In a preferred embodiment, the water flow passage is comprised by a quartz tube, wherein
   the sleeve surrounding the water flow passage has two entry points where electrical connections
   to the filaments are made, the material of the sleeve being pinched and fused to seal around the
 5 electrical connections, and wherein the material of the sleeve at both ends of the discharge lamp
   is fused to the outside surface of the quartz tube to create the sealed chamber.
        The apparatus preferably further includes a ballast having output terminals connected to the
   electrodes of the discharge lamp and operative upon being supplied with AC power to convert
   that power into the required power to operate the discharge lamp.
 o          According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of generating
   ozone in a flow of water, the method including the steps of:
            introducing a gas containing oxygen into water,
            causing the water having the oxygen containing gas therein to flow along a flow passage
   having a UV transparent portion of the wall of the flow passage,
25          providing a discharge lamp adjacent to the transparent portion of the wall of the flow
   passage and supplying power to electrodes of the discharge lamp so as to stimulate emission of
   UV radiation by the discharge lamp,
            directing UV radiation generated by the discharge lamp through the transparent portion
   of the wall of the flow passage and into the water, to generate ozone from oxygen introduced
30 into the water.
        According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a water treatment module for
   use in the apparatus of the first aspect or for use in the method of the second aspect, the module
   including:
                                                       2

           a water flow tube made of UV transparent material and which is arranged, in use, to
   receive a flow of water having a gas containing oxygen introduced upstream of the tube and for
   discharging ozone containing water from the other end of the tube, and
           a discharge lamp surrounding the tube and comprising a sleeve of larger diameter than
 5 the water flow tube, the sleeve being sealed to the outer surface of the tube so as to define a
   sealed gas chamber surrounding the tube, electrodes provided inside the sleeve with electrical
   connections thereto external to the sleeve, the sealed chamber containing an active composition
   which when power is supplied to the electrodes generates UV radiation and emits it through the
   wall of the water flow tube into the water flowing in the tube in use.
 o         Possible and preferred features of the present invention will now be described with
   particular reference to the accompanying drawing. However it is to be understood that the
   features illustrated in and described with reference to the drawing are not to be construed as
   limiting on the scope of the invention. In the drawing:
        Fig. 1 schematically illustrates an apparatus and method embodying the present invention.
 5      Referring to the drawing, Fig. 1 schematically illustrates an apparatus in which water is
   pumped through a supply line to the module of the present invention. The water may be the
   product to be treated by ozone or may be a carrier of ozone to be introduced into water to be
   treated. The water is directed through an oxygen introducing means, e.g. a venturi with an
   associated air or oxygen enriched air supply so that as water flows past the venturi, the gas
 o containing oxygen is introduced and mixed into the flowing water, e.g. forming bubbles which
   are maintained by turbulence in the flow.
        The water containing oxygen then enters a water flow passage provided by the module of
   the present invention. The water flow passage can be a quartz tube so as to be transparent to UV
   radiation of the appropriate wavelengths. The quartz water flow tube is a straight tube so the
25 water flows substantially without obstruction from the inlet to the outlet. Surrounding the quartz
   water flow tube is a sleeve which is sealed at opposite ends of that sleeve by being joined
   preferably by fusing to the outside surface of the quartz water flow passage. This can be done by
   any suitable means so that the sleeve defines, together with the outside surface of the quartz flow
   tube, a sealed chamber. The sleeve may be made of any suitable material and may for example
30 be partially or substantially opaque to UV radiation of the relevant wavelengths so as to reduce
   the amount of UV radiation in the ambient environment when the module is in use. This opacity
   can therefore reduce the unwanted generation of ozone in the ambient atmosphere as well as
   reducing any exposure of people in the vicinity to the UV radiation. The sleeve can also be
   made of a quartz material so that it can be fused and thus sealed to the water flow tube by
                                                     3

   conventional glass blowing and joining techniques. However the materials of the tube and the
   sleeve can have different composition because the tube is UV transparent while the sleeve is UV
   opaque. The sleeve may, for example, be made of a quartz material having specific impurities to
   make it UV opaque, such a material being known as VycorTM. For example, the product known
 5 as 7907 VycorTM has UV blocking properties of the kind suitable for use in the present invention.
   Alternatively the outside surface of the sleeve may be coated e.g. by gold deposition to make it
   UV opaque, particularly at 187nm wavelength to avoid ozone production in ambient air.
        The tube surrounding the water flow passage has two entry points where electrical
   connections to the filaments are made, the material of the sleeve being pinched and fused to seal
 o around the electrical connections, and when manufactured, the tube is evacuated of air and
   contaminants before being filled with the active composition. Although the illustrated
   embodiment has two electrodes, four electrodes may be provided if desired as is known for UV
   discharge lamps.
        The sealed chamber defined between the outside of the wall of the tube and the sleeve
 5 contains active material which, when stimulated, emits UV radiation. A suitable composition of
   the material can be an argon gas with a measured quantity of mercury whereby the sealed
   chamber constitutes a mercury vapour gas discharge lamp which, when stimulated, emits UV
   radiation of wavelengths 254nm and 187nm. 254nm radiation is germicidal and 187nm UV
   radiation causes formation of ozone from oxygen containing gas exposed to the radiation.
 o      In the illustrated embodiment, the stimulation and energisation of the UV generator is
   effected by applying electrical power to the electrodes using the ballast having output terminals
   connected to the electrodes of the discharge lamp and operative upon being supplied with AC
   power to convert that power into the required power to operate the discharge lamp. The ballast
   may be a conventional electronic ballast for a UV discharge lamp. The application of power to
25 the electrodes stimulates the composition by exciting the mercury vapour to the appropriate
   energy levels so that the electro-magnetic radiation caused by the transitions from high energy
   bands to lower energy bands produce the UV radiation of the characteristic wavelengths.
        In a test apparatus according to the invention, the water containing ozone was sampled from
   the outlet of the tube and tested to measure the ozone levels. These tests typically showed ozone
30 concentrations of 0.1 to 0.2 ppm (parts per million) which are effective levels for disinfection
   and for oxidation of organic contaminants such as residual antibiotics in treated water about to be
   discharged to the environment. In commercial uses, the water with ozone produced therein
   would be treated or utilised according to the particular field of application, such as by being
   introduced into a larger body or flow of waste for introducing ozone into the larger body or flow,
                                                     4

   by discharging the ozone treated water if it was clarified effluent requiring only a final
   disinfection, or by applying the ozone containing water to plants to stimulate growth.
        It will be seen that the present invention provides an effective way of creating a desired
   water and ozone mix by generating the ozone within the water flow. This can enable control of
 5 the ozone generation to create and maintain desired levels of ozone concentration. For treating
   significant flow volumes, numerous of the modules of the present invention can be arranged in
   parallel to be supplied from a common supply. This can enable repair and maintenance to be
   carried out by isolating one or more modules for maintenance or repair or replacement.
            Benefits of the present invention include the production of ozone directly in the liquid
 o stream avoiding the prior added process of trying to mix gas into a liquid which is always
   difficult to perform effectively. This present invention provides a very safe method of liquid
   treatment. Research into advanced oxidation shows UV produced ozone forms hydroxyl radicals
   which have massive oxidation potential since hydroxyl radical is a stronger oxidant that
   molecular ozone alone. When treating the water requires oxidation of natural organic matter
 5 (NOM), the hydroxyl radical exposure increases with increasing NOM exposure as NOM
   decomposes ozone increasing the rate of hydroxyl radical formation.
            An additional benefit arise from the simultaneous application of ozone and short wave
   UV at 254nm to the liquid at the same time, thus giving a dual disinfection mechanism of the
   liquid.
 o     Uses of the invention include advanced oxidation processes, including
       *    Antibiotics in waste water
       *    Bacteria and Virus destruction
       *    Chemical reaction in water
       *    Oxidation from colour in water
25     -    Stimulation of plant growth
       *    Irrigation water treatment
       *    Combined use with DMI-65TM filtration media or MaddoxTM filter materials which can
            be reactivated by the present invention
        It is to be understood that various alterations, modifications and/or additions may be made to
30 the features of the possible and preferred embodiment(s) of the invention as herein described
   without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
                                                       5

                                             Claims
   1. Apparatus for generating ozone in water, the apparatus including:
      oxygen introducing means at or downstream of the oxygen introducing means and
      operative to introduce a gas containing oxygen to the water,
 5    a water flow passage along which, in use, the water flows, the passage having a UV
      transparent portion of the wall of the passage, and
      a UV source operative to direct through the transparent portion and into the water UV
      radiation of a wavelength to cause generation of ozone from oxygen introduced into the
      water, the UV source comprising a discharge lamp having electrodes to be supplied with
 0    power to stimulate and energise the emission of UV radiation by the discharge lamp into
      the water.
   2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the discharge lamp is comprised by a sleeve
      surrounding the water flow passage, the sleeve being sealed at opposite ends thereof to
 5    the outside surface of the water flow passage and so as to define with the outside surface
      of the water flow passage a sealed chamber containing the active material having a
      composition to be stimulated by the application of power to the electrodes to generate
      UV radiation.
 o 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the electrodes comprise filaments to be
      supplied with power to heat the electrodes and facilitate the initiation and maintenance of
      the discharge in the lamp.
   4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the water flow passage is comprised by a quartz
25    tube, wherein the sleeve surrounding the water flow passage has two entry points where
      electrical connections to the filaments are made, the material of the sleeve being pinched
      and fused to seal around the electrical connections, and wherein the material of the sleeve
      at both ends of the discharge lamp is fused to the outside surface of the quartz tube to
      create the sealed chamber.
30
   5. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 and further including a ballast having
      output terminals connected to the electrodes of the discharge lamp and operative upon
      being supplied with AC power to convert that power into the required power to operate
      the discharge lamp.
35
                                                6

  6. A method of generating ozone in a flow of water, the method including the steps of:
     introducing a gas containing oxygen into water,
     causing the water having the oxygen containing gas therein to flow along a flow passage
     having a UV transparent portion of the wall of the flow passage,
5    providing a discharge lamp adjacent to the transparent portion of the wall of the flow
     passage and supplying power to electrodes of the discharge lamp so as to stimulate
     emission of UV radiation by the discharge lamp,
     directing UV radiation generated by the discharge lamp through the transparent portion
     of the wall of the flow passage and into the water to generate ozone from oxygen
o    introduced into the water.
  7. A water treatment module for use in the apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 5 or for use
     in the method according to claim 6, the module including:
     a water flow tube made of UV transparent material and which is arranged, in use, to
5    receive a flow of water having a gas containing oxygen introduced upstream of the tube
     and for discharging ozone containing water from the other end of the tube, and
     a discharge lamp surrounding the tube and comprising a sleeve of larger diameter than
     the water flow tube, the sleeve being sealed to the outer surface of the tube so as to define
     a sealed gas chamber surrounding the tube, electrodes provided inside the sleeve with
o    electrical connections thereto external to the sleeve, the sealed chamber containing an
     active composition which when power is supplied to the electrodes generates UV
     radiation and emits it through the wall of the water flow tube into the water flowing in the
     tube in use.
                                               7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
