A method of preserving stone, pome and berry fruit comprising immersing the fruit in 75% ethanol
for a minimum period of 2 minutes, allowing the fruit water to dilute this ethanol to around 70%,
draining off the 70% ethanol and then immersing the fruit in a fresh 45% ethanol solution. For taste
reasons the second solution may have sugar added.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Preserving stone, pome and berry fruit in water diluted ethanol, fruit juice, and if required for taste
reasons, a sugar solution.
Method.
For the sake of brevity, all volume and hydrometer measurements mentioned below are standardised
to 20 degrees centigrade with temperature correction tables.
Inspect the fruit for damage and sort accordingly. Discard blemished, soft or bruised fruit. Remove
any stems or stalks, wash, drain, remove stone fruit pits, then quickly totally immerse the fruit in
75% ethanol for a minimum period of 2 minutes. The ethanol strength has been previously tested
with a calibration ISO approved alcohol hydrometer. Fruit water will quickly dilute this ethanol, so
we aim to achieve approximately 70% ethanol after the immersion. This concentration is reported to
be more effective in killing mold and yeast spores, plus bacteria, than that at higher concentrations.
Drain off the 70% ethanol, then quickly immerse the fruit in a fresh 45% ethanol solution, or for
taste reason a 45% ethanol and sugar solution. The fruit is then stored in bulk sealed drums, fully
immersed in the ethanol preserving solution, then stored in a cool, dark place for 3 months.
The initial 70% sterilising ethanol can then be redistilled for reuse.
The ethanol percentage content of the preserving liquid after storage is checked by distilling a 500
ml sample in a laboratory glassware distillation kit. After the ethanol has been distilled off,
condensed and collected, it is topped up to 500 ml with purified water. This purified ethanol solution
is then measured with a standardised alcohol hydrometer.
This semi-micro distillation negates any specific gravity interference to the alcohol hydrometer from
adulterations such as fruit and cane sugars, plus it allows for fruit water dilution out of the fruit pulp
and conversely alcohol lost from the solution into the fruit pulp.
After the alcohol content of the fruit water and ethanol bulk liquor has been determined, it is
adjusted with either alcohol or purified water to produce a minimum final ethanol content of 35%
Sterilised jars or cans can then be filled with the fruit and covered with the minimum 35% ethanol or
ethanol and sugar solution.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Unlike other room temperature stored fruit preserving methods, the result is a non-wrinkled and/or
softened fruit skin, with a firm fruit pulp, flavoured with the diluted ethanol and juice originally
leeched from the fruit, plus sweetened with sugar if required.

