                                           ABSTRACT
         The invention provides a method for culturing mammalian cells. The method provides
greater control over cell growth to achieve high product titer cell cultures.

                                    MAMMALIAN CELL CULTURE
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
           This application is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of AU 2012279230,
the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF INVENTION
         The invention provides a method for culturing mammalian cells. The method provides greater
control over cell growth to achieve high product titer cell cultures.
BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
         As the demand for greater and greater quantities of therapeutic recombinant proteins increases,
positive increases in cell growth, viability and protein production are sought by implementing new
methods to improve cell development, media optimization and process control parameters. Much effort is
now being placed on process optimization, particularly methods and strategies for growing, feeding, and
maintaining production cell cultures.
         New cell culture methods that provide even incremental improvements in recombinant protein
production are valuable, given the expense of large scale cell culture processes and the growing demand
for greater quantities of and lower costs for biological products.
         Improvements to cell culture processes, recombinant polypeptide expression, titer, and cell
viability that can lead to higher production levels, thereby reducing the costs associated with
manufacturing protein therapeutics are needed. The invention fulfills these needs by providing a simple,
easy and inexpensive       method of controlling      cell growth while increasing protein production.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention provides a method of arresting cell growth in a mammalian cell culture
expressing a recombinant protein comprising establishing a mammalian cell culture in a serum-free
culture medium in a bioreactor; inducing cell growth-arrest by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion
medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less; maintaining the mammalian cells in a
growth-arrested state by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine
concentration of 5mM or less.
           The present invention also provides a method of increasing recombinant protein production in a
mammalian cell culture expressing a recombinant protein comprising establishing a mammalian cell
culture in a serum-free culture medium in a bioreactor; inducing cell growth-arrest by perfusion with a
serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less; maintaining the
mammalian cells in a growth-arrested state by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium having an
L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less. In a related embodiment recombinant protein production in
the mammalian cell culture is increased compared to a culture where the cells are not subjected to L
asparagine-induced cell growth-arrest.

            The present invention also provides a method of limiting a mammalian cell culture
   expressing a recombinant protein at a desired packed cell volume comprising establishing a
   mammalian cell culture in a serum-free culture medium in a bioreactor; inducing cell growth
 5 arrest by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration
   of 5mM or less; maintaining the mammalian cells in a growth-arrested state by perfusion with
   a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less.
            In one embodiment of the present invention, in any of the methods above the
   perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5mM
10 or less begins on or before day 3 of the culture.       In another embodiment, in any of the
   methods above induction of cell growth-arrest takes place prior to a production phase. In
   another embodiment, in any of the methods above induction of cell growth-arrest takes place
   during a production phase. In another embodiment, in any of the methods above cell growth
   arrest is induced by L-asparagine starvation. In yet another embodiment, any of the methods
15 above further comprise a temperature shift from 360 C to 31 C. In another embodiment, any
   of the methods above further comprise a temperature shift from 360 C to 330 C. In a related
   embodiment the temperature shift occurs at the transition between a growth phase and a
   production phase.      In yet another embodiment the temperature shift occurs during a
   production phase. In another embodiment the methods above further comprise a packed cell
20 volume during a production phase less than or equal to 35%. In a related embodiment the
   packed cell volume during a production phase is less than or equal to 35%
            The present invention also provides a method of culturing mammalian cells
   expressing a recombinant protein comprising; establishing a mammalian cell culture in a
   serum-free culture medium in a bioreactor; growing the mammalian cells during a growth
25 phase and supplementing the culture medium with bolus feeds of a serum-free feed medium,
   and maintaining the mammalian cells during a production phase by perfusion with a serum
   free perfusion medium, wherein the packed cell volume during the production phase is less
   than or equal to 35%. In one embodiment of the present invention, perfusion begins on or
   about day 5 to on or about day 9 of the cell culture. In a related embodiment perfusion begins
30 on or about day 5 to on or about day 7 of the cell culture. In one embodiment perfusion begins
   when the cells have reached a production phase. In another embodiment the method further
   comprises inducing cell growth-arrest by L-asparagine starvation followed by perfusion with
   a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5 mM or less. In yet
   another embodiment the method further comprises inducing cell growth-arrest by perfusion
35 with a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5 mM or less.
                                                   2

            In one embodiment of the invention the concentration of L-asparagine in the serum
   free perfusion medium is less than or equal to 5mM.                 In another embodiment the
   concentration of L-asparagine in the serum-free perfusion medium is less than or equal to 4.0
   mM. In another embodiment the concentration of L-asparagine in the serum-free perfusion
 5 medium is less than or equal to 3.0 mM. In still another embodiment the concentration of L
   asparagine in the serum-free perfusion medium is less than or equal to 2.0 mM. In yet
   another embodiment the concentration of L-asparagine in the serum-free perfusion medium is
   less than or equal to 1.0 mM. In yet another embodiment the concentration of L-asparagine in
   the serum-free perfusion medium is 0 mM. In another embodiment perfusion is performed at
10 a rate that increases during the production phase from 0.25 working volume per day to 1.0
   working volume per day during the cell culture.           In a related embodiment perfusion is
   performed at a rate that reaches 1.0 working volume per day on day 9 to day 11 of the cell
   culture. In another related embodiment perfusion is performed at a rate that reaches 1.0
   working volume per day on day 10 of the cell culture. In yet another embodiment the bolus
15 feeds of serum-free feed medium begin on day 3 or day 4 of the cell culture. In another
   embodiment of the invention the method further comprises a temperature shift from 360 C to
   3 PC. In another embodiment the method further comprises a temperature shift from 360 C to
   330 C. In a related embodiment the temperature shift occurs at the transition between the
   growth phase and production phase. In a related embodiment the temperature shift occurs
20 during the production phase.
            In one embodiment of the invention the L-asparagine concentration of the cell culture
   medium is monitored prior to and during L-asparagine starvation.
            In one embodiment of the invention the packed cell volume is less than or equal to
   35%. In a related embodiment the packed cell volume is less than or equal to 30%.
25          In one embodiment of the invention the viable cell density of the mammalian cell
   culture at a packed cell volume less than or equal to 35% is 1Oxl0     6
                                                                            viable cells/ml to 80x10 6
   viable cells/ml. In a related embodiment the viable cell density of the mammalian cell culture
   is 20x 106 viable cells/ml to 30x 106 viable cells/ml.
            In one embodiment of the invention perfusion comprises continuous perfusion.
30          In one embodiment of the invention the rate of perfusion is constant.
            In one embodiment of the invention perfusion is performed at a rate of less than or
   equal to 1.0 working volumes per day.
            In another embodiment of the invention the mammalian cell culture is established by
   inoculating the bioreactor with at least 0.5 x 106 to 3.0 x 106 cells/mL in a serum-free culture
35 medium. In a related embodiment the mammalian cell culture is established by inoculating
   the bioreactor with at least 0.5 x 106 to 1.5 x 106 cells/mL in a serum-free culture medium.
                                                     3

            In another embodiment of the invention the perfusion is accomplished by alternating
   tangential flow.
            In another embodiment of the invention the bioreactor has a capacity of at least 500L.
 5 In a related embodiment the bioreactor has a capacity of at least 500L to 2000L. In yet
   another related embodiment the bioreactor has a capacity of at least 1000L to 2000L.
            In another embodiment of the invention the mammalian cells are Chinese Hamster
            Ovary (CHO)
   cells.
10          In another embodiment of the invention the recombinant protein is selected from the
   group consisting of a human antibody, a humanized antibody, a chimeric antibody, a
   recombinant fusion protein, or a cytokine.
            In another embodiment of the invention any of the methods above further comprise a
   step of harvesting the recombinant protein produced by the cell culture.
15          In another embodiment of the invention the recombinant protein produced by the cell
   culture is purified and formulated in a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   Figure 1 Fed-batch start: solid square (m)and solid circle (o) Batch start: open square (o) and
20 open circle (o).
            Figure lA: Viable cell density, Figure 1B: Viability, Figure 1C: Titer
   Figure 2 Batch start: open circle (o), Fed-batch start with high agitation: open square (0)
            Figure 2A Viable cell density, Figure 2B Viability, Figure 2C Titer, Figure 2D
25 Asparagine concentration
   Figure 3 1.0 start perfusion volume, no temperature shift: solid circle.      1.0 start perfusion
   volume, temperature shift: open circle (o). 0.75 start perfusion volume perfusion volume, no
   temperature shift: solid square (m).     0.75 start perfusion volume, temperature shift: open
30 square (o).
            Figure 3A Viable Cell Density, Figure 3B Viability, Figure 3C Titer
   Figure 4 Batch start with low asparagine amount: open triangle (A). Batch start with control
   L-asparagine amount: solid triangle (A).      Fed-batch start with low L-asparagine amount:
35 open diamond (0). Fed-batch start with control L-asparagine amount: solid diamond (+).
   Sparge with drilled pipe: Solid line. Sparge with sintered sparger: dashed line.
                                                   4

            Figure 4A Viable Cell Density, Figure 4B Viability, Figure 4C PCV Adjusted Titer
   Figure 5 Cultures grown in medium containing 17.3 mM or 5 mM L-asparagine and 4.6 mM
   or 10 mM L-glutamine. 17.3mM L-asparagine and 4.6 mM L-glutamine solid diamond (+) or
 5 5 mM L-asparagine, 10 mM L-glutamine open diamond (0).
            Figure 5A Viable cell density.     Figure 5B Titer.   Figure 5C Packed cell volume
   (PCV). Figure 5D PCV-adjusted titer. Figure 5E Viability.
    Figure 6. Cultures at 2L bench scale and 500L pilot scale, with 5 mM L-asparagine, 10 mM
10 L-glutamine. Medium containing 5 mM L-asparagine, 10 mM L-glutamine at 2L bench scale
   is represented by the solid diamond (+) and the 500L pilot scale is represented by the open
   diamond (0)
            Figure 6A Viable cell density.     Figure 6B Titer.   Figure 6C Packed cell volume
   (PCV). Figure 6D PCV-adjusted titer. Figure 6E Viability.
15
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            During recombinant protein production it is desirable to have a controlled system
   where cells are grown to a desired density and then the physiological state of the cells is
   switched to a growth-arrested, high productivity state where the cells use energy and
20 substrates to produce the recombinant protein of interest instead of making more cells.
   Methods for accomplishing this goal, such as temperature shifts and small molecule inducers,
   are not always successful and can have undesirable effects on product quality. As described
   herein, packed cell volume can be limited to a desired level during the production phase by
   inducing cell growth-arrest in the cultured cells by exposure to low L-asparagine conditions.
25 Cell growth-arrest can be achieved and maintained by using a perfusion culture medium that
   contains a limiting concentration of L-asparagine and maintaining a low concentration of L
   asparagine in the cell culture (5mM or less).
            It was also found that the growth-arrested cells showed increased productivity when
   growth-arrest was initiated by low L-asparagine or through L-asparagine starvation and the
30 growth-arrested cells were subsequently maintained with the cell culture and perfusion
   medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less.
            A growth-arrested,     high productivity production phase can be achieved by
   manipulating the concentration of L-asparagine.        As described herein, depletion of L
   asparagine resulted in growth-arrest.     In a fed-batch culture, once the cell density was
35 sufficiently high (for example >20x 106 viable cells/mL), the culture was repeatedly starved of
   L-asparagine despite repeated feedings due to consumption of L-asparagine and/or the
                                                   5

   conversion to L-aspartate. In a cell culture, the extracellular L-asparagine can be converted to
   L-aspartate and ammonia. L-asparagine depletion resulted in cell cycle arrest. During fed
   batch, periods when L-asparagine is present in the culture result in increased productivity and
   periods when L-asparagine has been depleted result in decreased productivity.            In the
 5 perfused system, L-asparagine is constantly supplied, total depletion is therefor avoided, and
   higher concentrations of L-asparagine can be sustained, thus allowing cells to continue
   multiplying and not be exposed to and environment with depleted or limited L-asparagine.
   Controlling the concentration of L-asparagine at a sufficiently low concentration (such as
   concentrations 5mM or less) can keep the cells in a high productivity state while maintaining
10 viability and limiting growth.     In a system having bolus and perfusion feeding, the feed
   medium can be switched from a formulation containing a high (growth promoting) level of L
   asparagine during bolus feeds to a lower (growth-arresting) level of L-asparagine during
   perfusion feeding. Cell cultures that have been growth-arrested by limiting L-asparagine can
   be stimulated into a high productivity state by adding back low levels of L-asparagine.
15          For commercial scale cell culture and the manufacture of biological therapeutics, the
   ability to arrest cell growth and being able to maintain the cells in a growth-arrested state
   during the production phase would be very desirable. Having cells that were also induced to
   increase productivity while in the growth-arrested state and being able to maintain this
   increased productivity, is ideal for manufacturing purposes.
20          Provided herein is a method of arresting cell growth in a mammalian cell culture
   expressing a recombinant protein. The method includes inducing cell growth-arrest in a
   mammalian cell culture by subjecting the cell culture to serum-free medium having an L
   asparagine concentration of 5mM or less which includes 0mM L-asparageine).                 Such
   induction can be initiated by L-asparagine starvation or by creating a low L-asparagine
25 environment by perfusing the culture with a serum-free perfusion medium having an L
   asparagine concentration of 5mM or less and maintaining the culture in a low L-asparagine
   environment. The cell culture is then maintained in the growth-arrested state by perfusing
   with a serum-free perfusion medium with an L-asparagine at a concentration of 5mM or less
   and maintaining the culture in the low L-asparagine environment.
30          Also provided is a method for increasing recombinant protein production in a
   mammalian cell culture expressing a recombinant protein by inducing a low asparagine cell
   growth-arrest in a mammalian cell culture.          Mammalian cells maintained in the low
   asparagine growth-arrested state exhibited greater productivity (g protein/cell/day and g
   protein/cell mass/day) than those which were not low asparagine growth-arrested.
35           Such method is also useful for limiting a mammalian cell culture at a desired packed
   cell volume. Packed cell volume during the production phase could be limited at a desired
                                                   6

   level by reducing L-asparagine levels in the production culture medium.              Asparagine
   concentrations of 5mM or less in the perfusion medium were sufficient to control cell growth
   during culture and limit to a desired packed cell volume.
            The methods described herein provide greater control over cell growth to high
 5 product titer cell cultures; and as such can simplify the gassing strategy compared to a high
   biomass perfusion processes and minimize product loss during harvest and downstream
   processing.
            The method begins with establishing a mammalian cell culture in a production
   bioreactor. Preferably smaller production bioreactors are used, in one embodiment the
10 bioreactors are 500L to 2000L. In a preferred embodiment, lOOOL - 2000L bioreactors are
   used. The seed cell density used to inoculate the bioreactor can have a positive impact on the
   level of recombinant protein produced. In one embodiment the bioreactor is inoculated with
                     6                          6
   at least 0.5  x10   up to and beyond 3.0 x10   viable cells/mL in a serum-free culture medium.
   In a preferred embodiment the inoculation is I.Ox106 viable cells/mL.
15          The mammalian cells then undergo an exponential growth phase.         The cell culture
   can be maintained without supplemental feeding until a desired cell density is achieved. In
   one embodiment the cell culture is maintained for up to 3 days without supplemental feeding
   followed by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine
   concentration of 5mM or less to induce and maintain low L-asparagine growth-arrest.          In
20 another embodiment the culture can be inoculated at a desired cell density to begin the
   production phase without a brief growth phase with cell growth-arrest initiated immediately
   upon inoculation by perfusing the cell culture with serum-free perfusion medium containing
   5mM or less L-asparagine to induce and maintain low L-asparagine growth-arrest. In any of
   the embodiments herein the switch from the growth phase to production phase can also be
25 initiated by L-asparagine starvation (subjecting cells to a 0 mM L-asparagine environment)
   followed by perfusion with a cell culture medium having an L-asparagine concentration of
   equal to or less than 5 mM. and maintaining the concentrating of L-asparagine in the cell
   culture at that level.
            Without regard as to how low L-asparagine growth-arrest is induced, higher
30 productivity is seen in the growth-arrested cells that are maintained by perfusing with a low
   L-asparagine medium and maintaining the cell culture at an L-asparagine level of 5mM or
   less.
            As used herein, "growth-arrest", which may also be referred to as "cell growth
   arrest", is the point where cells stop increasing in number or when the cell cycle no longer
35 progresses. Growth-arrest can be monitored by determining the viable cell density of a cell
   culture. Some cells in a growth-arrested state may increase in size but not number, so the
                                                   7

   packed cell volume of a growth-arrested culture may increase. Growth-arrest can be reversed
   to some extent, if the cells are not in declining health, by adding additional L-asparagine to
   the cell culture.
            Growth-arrest is initiated by L-asparagine when the cell density of the culture reaches
 5 a level where the concentration of L-asparagine in the culture becomes limiting for continued
   growth or when the culture is starved of L-asparagine. L-asparagine starvation occurs when
   the L-asparagine concentration in a cell culture medium is effectively at OmM. Starvation can
   result in growth-arrest within 24 hours. Starvation for longer than 48 hours could damage the
   health of the cells.      To maintain cells in the growth-arrested state, the L-asparagine
10 concentration in the cell culture must be maintained at 5mM or less.            The cell culture
   medium concentration of L-asparagine required to arrest cell growth is dependent on the
   ability of the cells to make their own asparagine. For cultures where cells can make their own
   asparagine, a lower concentration, or even removal of L-asparagine from the medium may be
   required for growth-arrest. For cultures that are unable to make their own asparagine, for
15 example, cells that lack active asparagine synthetase enzyme, concentrations above zero up to
   5 mM L-asparagine could be used to arrest growth.
            As used herein, "packed cell volume" (PCV), also referred to as "percent packed cell
   volume" (%PCV), is the ratio of the volume occupied by the cells, to the total volume of cell
   culture, expressed as a percentage (see Stettler, wt al., (2006) Biotechnol Bioeng. Dec
20 20:95(6):1228-33).      Packed cell volume is a function of cell density and cell diameter;
   increases in packed cell volume could arise from increases in either cell density or cell
   diameter or both. Packed cell volume is a measure of the solid content in the cell culture.
   Solids are removed during harvest and downstream purification. More solids mean more
   effort to separate the solid material from the desired product during harvest and downstream
25 purification steps. Also, the desired product can become trapped in the solids and lost during
   the harvest process, resulting in a decreased product yield. Since host cells vary in size and
   cell cultures also contain dead and dying cells and other cellular debris, packed cell volume is
   a more accurate way to describe the solid content within a cell culture than cell density or
   viable cell density. For example, a 2000L culture having a cell density of 50 x 106 cells/ml
30 would have vastly different packed cell volumes depending on the size of the cells.           In
   addition, some cells, when in a growth-arrested state, will increase in size, so the packed cell
   volume prior to growth-arrest and post growth-arrest will likely be different, due to increase
   in biomass as a result to cell size increase.
            At the transition between the growth phase and the production phase, and during the
35 production phase, the percent packed cell volume (%PCV) is equal to or less than 35%. The
   desired packed cell volume maintained during the production phase is equal to or less than
                                                   8

   35%. In a preferred embodiment the packed cell volume is equal to or less than 30%.           In
   another preferred embodiment the packed cell volume is equal to or less than 20%. In another
   preferred embodiment the packed cell volume is equal to or less than 15%. In yet another
   preferred embodiment the packed cell volume is equal to or less than 10%.
 5          As used herein, "cell density" refers to the number of cells in a given volume of
   culture medium. "Viable cell density" refers to the number of live cells in a given volume of
   culture medium, as determined by standard viability assays (such as trypan blue dye exclusion
   method).
            The desired viable cell density at the transition between the growth and production
10 phases and maintained during the production phase is one that provides a packed cell volume
   of equal to or less than 35%. In one embodiment, the viable cell density is at least about
   1Ox106 viable cells/mL to 80x 106 viable cells/mL. In one embodiment the viable cell density
   is at least about 1Ox106 viable cells/mL to 70x106 viable cells/mL. In one embodiment the
   viable cell density is at least about 10x10 6 viable cells/mL to 60x10 6 viable cells/mL. In one
15 embodiment the viable cell density is at least about lxO106 viable cells/mL to 50x1 06 viable
   cells/mL. In one embodiment the viable cell density is at least about 0xI06 viable cells/mL
   to 40x106 viable cells/mL. In a preferred embodiment the viable cell density is at least about
   lOx106 viable cells/mL to 30x106 viable cells/mL.         In another preferred embodiment the
   viable cell density is at least about lOx0 viable cells/mL to 20x10 6 viable cells/mL.        In
20 another preferred embodiment, the viable cell density is at least about 20x1 06 viable cells/mL
   to 30x106 viable cells/mL. In another preferred embodiment the viable cell density is at least
   about 20x 106 viable cells/mL to at least about 25x106 viable cells/mL, more preferably at
   least about 20x 106 viable cells/mL.
            Lower packed cell volume during the production phase helps mitigate dissolved
25 oxygen sparging problems that can hinder higher cell density perfusion cultures. The lower
   packed cell volume also allows for a smaller media volume which allows for the use of
   smaller media storage vessels and can be combined with slower flow rates. Lower packed
   cell volume also has less impact on harvest and downstream processing, compared to higher
   cell biomass cultures.      All of which reduces the costs associated with manufacturing
30 recombinant protein therapeutics.
            Three methods are typically used in commercial processes for the production of
   recombinant proteins by mammalian cell culture: batch culture, fed-batch culture, and
   perfusion culture.    Batch culture, a discontinuous method where cells are grown in a fixed
   volume of culture media for a short period of time followed by a full harvest. Cultures grown
35 using the batch method experience an increase in cell density until a maximum cell density is
   reached, followed by a decline in viable cell density as the media components are consumed
                                                    9

   and levels of metabolic by-products (such as lactate and ammonia) accumulate.             Harvest
   typically occurs at the point when the maximum cell density is achieved (typically 5-10x10 6
   cells/mL, depending on media formulation, cell line, etc). The batch process is the simplest
   culture method, however viable cell density is limited by the nutrient availability and once the
 5 cells are at maximum density, the culture declines and production decreases. There is no
   ability to extend a production phase because the accumulation of waste products and nutrient
   depletion rapidly lead to culture decline, (typically around 3 to 7 days).
            Fed-batch culture improves on the batch process by providing bolus or continuous
   media feeds to replenish those media components that have been consumed. Since fed-batch
10 cultures receive additional nutrients throughout the run, they have the potential to achieve
   higher cell densities (>10 to 30x10 6 cells/ml, depending on media formulation, cell line, etc))
   and increased product titers, when compared to the batch method. Unlike the batch process, a
   biphasic culture can be created and sustained by manipulating feeding strategies and media
   formulations to distinguish the period of cell proliferation to achieve a desired cell density
15 (the growth phase) from the period of suspended or slow cell growth (the production phase).
   As such, fed batch cultures have the potential to achieve higher product titers compared to
   batch cultures. Typically a batch method is used during the growth phase and a fed-batch
   method used during the production phase, but a fed-batch feeding strategy can be used
   throughout the entire process. However, unlike the batch process, bioreactor volume is a
20 limiting factor which limits the amount of feed. Also, as with the batch method, metabolic
   by-product accumulation will lead to culture decline, which limits the duration of the
   production phase, about 1.5 to 3 weeks. Fed-batch cultures are discontinuous and harvest
   typically occurs when metabolic by-product levels or culture viability reach predetermined
   levels.
25          Perfusion methods offer potential improvement over the batch and fed-batch methods
   by adding fresh media and simultaneously removing spent media.               Typical large scale
   commercial cell culture strategies strive to reach high cell densities, 60 - 90(+) x 106 cells/mL
   where almost a third to over one-half of the reactor volume is biomass. With perfusion
   culture, extreme cell densities of >1 x 10' cells/mL have been achieved and even higher
30 densities are predicted. Typical perfusion cultures begin with a batch culture start-up lasting
   for a day or two followed by continuous, step-wise and/or intermittent addition of fresh feed
   media to the culture and simultaneous removal of spend media with the retention of cells and
   additional high molecular weight compounds such as proteins (based on the filter molecular
   weight cutoff) throughout the growth and production phases of the culture. Various methods,
35 such as sedimentation, centrifugation, or filtration, can be used to remove spent media, while
   maintaining cell density. Perfusion flow rates of a fraction of a working volume per day up to
                                                   10

   many multiple working volumes per day have been reported. An advantage of the perfusion
   process is that the production culture can be maintained for longer periods than batch or fed
   batch culture methods. However, increased media preparation, use, storage and disposal are
   necessary to support a long term perfusion culture, particularly those with high cell densities,
 5 which also need even more nutrients, and all of this drives the production costs even higher,
   compared to batch and fed batch methods.          In addition, higher cell densities can cause
   problems during production, such as maintaining dissolved oxygen levels and problems with
   increased gassing including supplying more oxygen and removing more carbon dioxide,
   which would result in more foaming and the need for alterations to antifoam strategies; as
10 well as during harvest and downstream processing where the efforts required to remove the
   excessive cell material can result in loss of product, negating the benefit of increased titer due
   to increased cell mass.
            Also provided is a large scale cell culture strategy that combines fed batch feeding
   during the growth phase followed by continuous perfusion during the production phase.          The
15 method targets a production phase where the cell culture is maintained at a packed cell
   volume of less than or equal to 35%. The method also provides the initiation and maintenance
   of cell growth-arrest due to low asparagine.
            Fed batch culture is a widely-practiced culture method for large scale production of
   proteins from mammalian cells. See e.g. Chu and Robinson (2001), Current Opin.
20 Biotechnol. 12: 180-87. A fed batch culture of mammalian cells is one in which the culture is
   fed, either continuously or periodically, with a concentrated feed medium containing
   nutrients. Feeding can occur on a predetermined schedule of, for example, every day, once
   every two days, once every three days, etc. When compared to a batch culture, in which no
   feeding occurs, a fed batch culture can produce greater amounts of recombinant protein. See
25 e.g. U.S. Patent No. 5,672,502.
            In one embodiment, a fed-batch culture with bolus feeds is used to maintain a cell
   culture during the growth phase. Perfusion feeding can then be used during a production
   phase. In one embodiment, perfusion begins when the cells have reached a production phase.
   In another embodiment, perfusion begins on or about day 5 to on or about day 9 of the cell
30 culture. In another embodiment perfusion begins on or about day 5 to on or about day 7 of
   the cell culture.
            In another embodiment the initiation of cell growth-arrest in the fed-batch culture can
   be initiated by subjecting the fed-batch culture to a period of L-asparagine starvation followed
   by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5
35 mM or less. In one embodiment the L-asparagine concentration of the cell culture medium is
   monitored prior to and during L-asparagine starvation.      In another embodiment the initiation
                                                   11

   of cell growth-arrest in the fed-batch culture can be achieved by perfusion with a serum free
   perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5 mM or less.
            Using bolus feeding during the growth phase allows the cells to transition into the
   production phase, resulting in less dependence on a temperature shift as a means of initiating
 5 and controlling the production phase, however a temperature shift of 360 C to 31 0 C can take
   place between the growth phase and production phase. In a preferred embodiment the shift is
   from 360 C to 330 C.
            As described herein, the bioreactor can be inoculated with at least 0.5 x106  up to and
   beyond 3.0   x10 6 viable cells/mL in a serum-free culture medium, preferably l.0x106 viable
10 cells/mL.
            Perfusion culture is one in which the cell culture receives fresh perfusion feed
   medium while simultaneously removing spent medium. Perfusion can be continuous, step
   wise, intermittent, or a combination of any or all of any of these. Perfusion rates can be less
   than a working volume to many working volumes per day. Preferably the cells are retained in
15 the culture and the spent medium that is removed is substantially free of cells or has
   significantly fewer cells than the culture. Recombinant proteins expressed by the cell culture
   can also be retained in the culture. Perfusion can be accomplished by a number of means
   including centrifugation, sedimentation, or filtration, See e.g. Voisard et al., (2003),
   Biotechnology and Bioengineering 82:751-65. A preferred filtration method is alternating
20 tangential flow filtration. Alternating tangential flow is maintained by pumping medium
   through hollow-fiber filter modules. See e.g. US Patent No. 6,544,424; Furey (2002) Gen.
   Eng. News. 22 (7), 62-63.
            As used herein, "perfusion flow rate" is the amount of media that is passed through
   (added and removed) from a bioreactor, typically expressed as some portion or multiple of the
25 working volume, in a given time.        "Working volume" refers to the amount of bioreactor
   volume used for cell culture. In one embodiment the perfusion flow rate is one working
   volume or less per day. Perfusion feed medium can be formulated to maximize perfusion
   nutrient concentration to minimize perfusion rate.
            By "cell culture" or "culture" is meant the growth and propagation of cells outside of
30 a multicellular organism or tissue.       Suitable culture conditions for mammalian cells are
   known in the art. See e.g. Animal cell culture: A Practical Approach, D. Rickwood, ed.,
   Oxford University Press, New York (1992). Mammalian cells may be cultured in suspension
   or while attached to a solid substrate. Fluidized bed bioreactors, hollow fiber bioreactors,
   roller bottles, shake flasks, or stirred tank bioreactors, with or without microcarriers, can be
35 used. In one embodiment 500L to 2000L bioreactors are used. In a preferred embodiment,
   I OOL to 2000L bioreactors are used.
                                                    12

            For the purposes of this invention, cell culture medium is a media suitable for growth
   of animal cells, such as mammalian cells, in in vitro cell culture.        Cell culture media
   formulations are well known in the art. Typically, cell culture media are comprised of
   buffers, salts, carbohydrates, amino acids, vitamins and trace essential elements.     "Serum
 5 free" applies to a cell culture medium that does not contain animal sera, such as fetal bovine
   serum.    Various tissue culture media, including defined culture media, are commercially
   available, for example, any one or a combination of the following cell culture media can be
   used: RPMI-1640 Medium, RPMI-1641 Medium, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium
   (DMEM), Minimum Essential Medium Eagle, F-12K Medium, Ham's F12 Medium, Iscove's
10 Modified Dulbecco's Medium, McCoy's 5A Medium, Leibovitz's L-15 Medium, and serum
   free media such as EX-CELLTM 300 Series (JRH Biosciences, Lenexa, Kansas), among
   others. Serum-free versions of such culture media are also available. Cell culture media may
   be supplemented with additional or increased concentrations of components such as amino
   acids, salts, sugars, vitamins, hormones, growth factors, buffers, antibiotics, lipids, trace
15 elements and the like, depending on the requirements of the cells to be cultured and/or the
   desired cell culture parameters.
            Cell cultures can be supplemented with concentrated feed medium containing
   components, such as nutrients and amino acids, which are consumed during the course of the
   production phase of the cell culture. Concentrated feed medium may be based on just about
20 any cell culture media formulation. Such a concentrated feed medium can contain most of the
   components of the cell culture medium at, for example, about 5X, 6X, 7X, 8X, 9X, lOX, 12X,
   14X, 16X, 20X, 30X, 50X, 100x, 200X, 400X, 600X, 800X, or even about 1000X of their
   normal amount. Concentrated feed media are often used in fed batch culture processes.
            The method according to the present invention may be used to improve the
25 production of recombinant proteins in multiple phase culture processes. In a multiple stage
   process, cells are cultured in two or more distinct phases. For example cells may be cultured
   first in one or more growth phases, under environmental conditions that maximize cell
   proliferation and viability, then transferred to a production phase, under conditions that
   maximize protein production.       In a commercial process for production of a protein by
30 mammalian cells, there are commonly multiple, for example, at least about 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
   9, or 10 growth phases that occur in different culture vessels preceding a final production
   culture. The growth and production phases may be preceded by, or separated by, one or more
   transition phases. In multiple phase processes, the method according to the present invention
   can be employed at least during the growth and production phase of the final production
35 phase of a commercial cell culture, although it may also be employed in a preceding growth
   phase. A production phase can be conducted at large scale. A large scale process can be
                                                   13

   conducted in a volume of at least about 100, 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 5000, 7000, 8000,
   10,000, 15,000, 20,000 liters. In a preferred embodiment production is conducted in 500L,
   10OOL and/or 2000L bioreactors. A growth phase may occur at a higher temperature than a
   production phase. For example, a growth phase may occur at a first temperature from about
 5 350 C to about 380 C, and a production phase may occur at a second temperature from about
   29 0 C to about 370 C, optionally from about 30'C to about 360 C or from about 30'C to about
   340 C. In addition, chemical inducers of protein production, such as, for example, caffeine,
   butyrate, and hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA), may be added at the same time as,
   before, and/or after a temperature shift. If inducers are added after a temperature shift, they
10 can be added from one hour to five days after the temperature shift, optionally from one to
   two days after the temperature shift. The cell cultures can be maintained for days or even
   weeks while the cells produce the desired protein(s).
             Samples from the cell culture can be monitored and evaluated using any of the
   analytical techniques known in the art. Variety of parameters including recombinant protein
15 and medium quality and characteristics can be monitored for the duration of the culture.
   Samples can be taken and monitored intermittently at a desirable frequency, including
   continuous monitoring, real time or near real time. In one embodiment the L-asparagine
   concentration of the cell culture medium is monitored prior to and during L-asparagine
   starvation.
20          Typically the cell cultures that precede the final production culture (N-x to N-1) are
   used to generate the seed cells that will be used to inoculate the production bioreactor, the N-I
   culture. The seed cell density can have a positive impact on the level of recombinant protein
   produced. Product levels tend to increase with increasing seed density. Improvement in titer
   is tied not only to higher seed density, but is likely to be influenced by the metabolic and cell
25 cycle state of the cells that are placed into production.
             Seed cells can be produced by any culture method. A preferred method is a perfusion
   culture using alternating tangential flow filtration.      An N- 1 bioreactor can be run using
   alternating tangential flow filtration to provide cells at high density to inoculate a production
   bioreactor. The N-I stage may be used to grow cells to densities of >90 x 106 cells/mL. The
30 N-1 bioreactor can be used to generate bolus seed cultures or can be used as a rolling seed
   stock culture that could be maintained to seed multiple production bioreactors at high seed
   cell density. The duration of the growth stage of production can range from 7 to 14 days and
   can be designed so as to maintain cells in exponential growth prior to inoculation of the
   production bioreactor. Perfusion rates, medium formulation and timing are optimized to grow
35 cells and deliver them to the production bioreactor in a state that is most conducive to
   optimizing their production. Seed cell densities of >15 x 106 cells/mL can be achieved for
                                                    14

   seeding production bioreactors. Higher seed cell densities at inoculation can decrease or even
   eliminate the time needed to reach a desired production density.
            The invention finds particular utility in improving cell growth, viability and/or
   protein production via cell culture processes. The cell lines (also referred to as "host cells")
 5 used in the invention are genetically engineered to express a polypeptide of commercial or
   scientific interest. Cell lines are typically derived from a lineage arising from a primary
   culture that can be maintained in culture for an unlimited time. Genetically engineering the
   cell line involves transfecting, transforming or transducing the cells with a recombinant
   polynucleotide molecule, and/or otherwise altering (e.g., by homologous recombination and
10 gene activation or fusion of a recombinant cell with a non-recombinant cell) so as to cause the
   host cell to express a desired recombinant polypeptide. Methods and vectors for genetically
   engineering cells and/or cell lines to express a polypeptide of interest are well known to those
   of skill in the art; for example, various techniques are illustrated in Current Protocols in
   Molecular Biology, Ausubel et al., eds. (Wiley & Sons, New York, 1988, and quarterly
15 updates); Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (Cold Spring Laboratory
   Press, 1989); Kaufman, R.J., Large Scale Mammalian Cell Culture, 1990, pp. 15-69.
            Animal cell lines are derived from cells whose progenitors were derived from a multi
   cellular animal. One type of animal cell line is a mammalian cell line. A wide variety of
   mammalian cell lines suitable for growth in culture are available from the American Type
20 Culture Collection (Manassas, Va.) and commercial vendors.              Examples of cell lines
   commonly used in the industry include VERO, BHK, HeLa, CV1 (including Cos), MDCK,
   293, 3T3, myeloma cell lines (e.g., NSO, NSl), PC 12, W138 cells, and Chinese hamster ovary
   (CHO) cells. CHO cells are widely used for the production of complex recombinant proteins,
   e.g. cytokines, clotting factors, and antibodies (Brasel et al. (1996), Blood 88:2004-2012;
25 Kaufman et al. (1988), J. Biol Chem 263:6352-6362; McKinnon et al. (1991), J Mol
   Endocrinol 6:231-239; Wood et al. (1990), J. Immunol. 145:3011-3016). The dihydrofolate
   reductase (DHFR)-deficient mutant cell lines (Urlaub et al. (1980), Proc Natl Acad Sci USA
   77: 4216-4220), DXBI I and DG-44, are desirable CHO host cell lines because the efficient
   DHFR selectable and amplifiable gene expression system allows high level recombinant
30 protein expression in these cells (Kaufman R.J. (1990), Meth Enzymol 185:537-566).            In
   addition, these cells are easy to manipulate as adherent or suspension cultures and exhibit
   relatively good genetic stability. CHO cells and proteins recombinantly expressed in them
   have been extensively characterized and have been approved for use in clinical commercial
   manufacturing by regulatory agencies.
35          The methods of the invention can be used to culture cells that express recombinant
   proteins of interest. The expressed recombinant proteins may be secreted into the culture
                                                   15

   medium from which they can be recovered and/or collected. In addition, the proteins can be
   purified, or partially purified, from such culture or component (e.g., from culture medium)
   using known processes and products available from commercial vendors.               The purified
   proteins can then be "formulated", meaning buffer exchanged, sterilized, bulk-packaged,
 5 and/or packaged for a final user. Suitable formulations for pharmaceutical compositions
   include those described in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th ed. 1995, Mack
   Publishing Company, Easton, PA.
            As used herein "peptide," "polypeptide" and "protein" are used interchangeably
   throughout and refer to a molecule comprising two or more amino acid residues joined to
10 each other by peptide bonds.        Peptides, polypeptides and proteins are also inclusive of
   modifications including, but not limited to, glycosylation, lipid attachment, sulfation, gamma
   carboxylation of glutamic acid residues, hydroxylation and ADP-ribosylation. Polypeptides
   can be of scientific or commercial interest, including protein-based drugs.         Polypeptides
   include, among other things, antibodies, fusion proteins, and cytokines.                Peptides,
15 polypeptides and proteins are produced by recombinant animal cell lines using cell culture
   methods and may be referred to as "recombinant peptide", "recombinant polypeptide" and
   "recombinant protein". The expressed protein(s) may be produced intracellularly or secreted
   into the culture medium from which it can be recovered and/or collected.
            Examples of polypeptides that can be produced with the methods of the invention
20 include proteins comprising amino acid sequences identical to or substantially similar to all or
   part of one of the following proteins: tumor necrosis factor (TNF), flt3 ligand (WO
   94/28391), erythropoeitin, thrombopoeitin, calcitonin, IL-2, angiopoietin-2 (Maisonpierre et
   al. (1997), Science 277(5322): 55-60), ligand for receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANKL,
   WO 01/36637), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL, WO
25 97/01633), thymic stroma-derived lymphopoictin, granulocyte colony stimulating factor,
   granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF, Australian Patent No. 588819),
   mast cell growth factor, stem cell growth factor (US Patent No.6,204,363), epidermal growth
   factor, keratinocyte growth factor, megakaryote growth and development factor, RANTES,
   human fibrinogen-like 2 protein (FGL2; NCBI accession no. NM_00682; Rfiegg and Pytela
30 (1995), Gene 160:257-62) growth hormone, insulin, insulinotropin, insulin-like growth
   factors, parathyroid hormone, interferons including a-interferons, y-interferon, and consensus
   interferons (US Patent Nos. 4,695,623 and 4,897471), nerve growth factor, brain-derived
   neurotrophic factor, synaptotagmin-like proteins (SLP 1-5), neurotrophin-3, glucagon,
   interleukins, colony stimulating factors, lymphotoxin-p, leukemia inhibitory factor, and
35 oncostatin-M.    Descriptions of proteins that can be produced according to the inventive
   methods may be found in, for example, Human Cytokines: Handbook for Basic and Clinical
                                                  16

   Research, all volumes (Aggarwal and Gutterman, eds. Blackwell Sciences, Cambridge, MA,
   1998); Growth Factors: A Practical Approach (McKay and Leigh, eds., Oxford University
   Press Inc., New York, 1993); and The Cytokine Handbook, Vols. 1 and 2 (Thompson and
   Lotze eds., Academic Press, San Diego, CA, 2003).
 5          Additionally the methods of the invention would be useful to produce proteins
   comprising all or part of the amino acid sequence of a receptor for any of the above
   mentioned proteins, an antagonist to such a receptor or any of the above-mentioned proteins,
   and/or proteins substantially similar to such receptors or antagonists. These receptors and
   antagonists include: both forms of tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR, referred to as p55
10 and p75, US Patent No. 5,395,760 and US Patent No. 5,610,279), Interleukin-1 (IL-1)
   receptors (types I and II; EP Patent No. 0460846, US Patent No. 4,968,607, and US Patent
   No. 5,767,064,), IL-i receptor antagonists (US Patent No. 6,337,072), IL-1 antagonists or
   inhibitors (US Patent Nos. 5,981,713, 6,096,728, and 5,075,222) IL-2 receptors, IL-4
   receptors (EP Patent No. 0 367 566 and US Patent No. 5,856,296), IL-15 receptors, IL-17
15 receptors, IL-18 receptors, Fe receptors, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor
   receptor, granulocyte colony stimulating factor receptor, receptors for oncostatin-M and
   leukemia inhibitory factor, receptor activator of NF-kappa B (RANK, WO 01/36637 and US
   Patent No. 6,271,349), osteoprotegerin (US. Patent No. 6,015,938), receptors for TRAIL
   (including TRAIL receptors 1, 2, 3, and 4), and receptors that comprise death domains, such
20 as Fas or Apoptosis-Inducing Receptor (AIR).
            Other proteins that can be produced using the invention include proteins comprising
   all or part of the amino acid sequences of differentiation antigens (referred to as CD proteins)
   or their ligands or proteins substantially similar to either of these. Such antigens are disclosed
   in Leukocyte Typing VI (Proceedings of the VIth International Workshop and Conference,
25 Kishimoto, Kikutani et al., eds., Kobe, Japan, 1996). Similar CD proteins are disclosed in
   subsequent workshops.       Examples of such antigens include CD22, CD27, CD30, CD39,
   CD40, and ligands thereto (CD27 ligand, CD30 ligand, etc.). Several of the CD antigens are
   members of the TNF receptor family, which also includes 41BB and OX40. The ligands are
   often members of the TNF family, as are 41 BB ligand and OX40 ligand.
30          Enzymatically active proteins or their ligands can also be produced using the
   invention. Examples include proteins comprising all or part of one of the following proteins
   or their ligands or a protein substantially similar to one of these:            a disintegrin and
   metalloproteinase domain family members including TNF-alpha Converting Enzyme, various
   kinases, glucocerebrosidase, superoxide dismutase, tissue plasminogen activator, Factor VIII,
35 Factor IX, apolipoprotein E, apolipoprotein A-I, globins, an IL-2 antagonist, alpha-1
                                                   17

   antitrypsin, ligands for any of the above-mentioned enzymes, and numerous other enzymes
   and their ligands.
            The term "antibody" includes reference to both glycosylated and non-glycosylated
   immunoglobulins of any isotype or subclass or to an antigen-binding region thereof that
 5 competes with the intact antibody for specific binding, unless otherwise specified, including
   human, humanized, chimeric, multi-specific, monoclonal, polyclonal, and oligomers or
   antigen binding fragments thereof. Also included are proteins having an antigen binding
   fragment or region such as Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, Fv, diabodies, Fd, dAb, maxibodies, single
   chain antibody molecules, complementarity determining region (CDR) fragments, scFv,
10 diabodies, triabodies, tetrabodies and polypeptides that contain at least a portion of an
   immunoglobulin that is sufficient to confer specific antigen binding to a target polypeptide.
   The term "antibody" is inclusive of, but not limited to, those that are prepared, expressed,
   created or isolated by recombinant means, such as antibodies isolated from a host cell
   transfected to express the antibody.
15          Examples of antibodies include, but are not limited to, those that recognize any one or
   a combination of proteins including, but not limited to, the above-mentioned proteins and/or
   the following antigens: CD2, CD3, CD4, CD8, CDlla, CD14, CD18, CD20, CD22, CD23,
   CD25, CD33, CD40, CD44, CD52, CD80 (B7.1), CD86 (B7.2), CD147, IL-la, IL-1, IL-2,
   IL-3, IL-7, IL-4, IL-5, IL-8, IL-10, IL-2 receptor, IL-4 receptor, IL-6 receptor, IL-13 receptor,
20 IL- 18 receptor subunits, FGL2, PDGF-       and analogs thereof (see US Patent Nos. 5,272,064
   and 5,149,792), VEGF, TGF, TGF-2, TGF-pl, EGF receptor (see US Patent No. 6,235,883)
   VEGF receptor, hepatocyte growth factor, osteoprotegerin ligand, interferon gamma, B
   lymphocyte stimulator (BlyS, also known as BAFF, THANK, TALL-1, and zTNF4; see Do
   and Chen-Kiang (2002), Cytokine Growth Factor Rev. 13(1): 19-25), C5 complement, IgE,
25 tumor antigen CA125, tumor antigen MUC1, PEM antigen, LCG (which is a gene product
   that is expressed in association with lung cancer), HER-2, HER-3, a tumor-associated
   glycoprotein TAG-72, the SK-1 antigen, tumor-associated epitopes that are present in
   elevated levels in the sera of patients with colon and/or pancreatic cancer, cancer-associated
   epitopes or proteins expressed on breast, colon, squamous cell, prostate, pancreatic, lung,
30 and/or kidney cancer cells and/or on melanoma, glioma, or neuroblastoma cells, the necrotic
   core of a tumor, integrin alpha 4 beta 7, the integrin VLA-4, B2 integrins, TRAIL receptors
   1, 2, 3, and 4, RANK, RANK ligand, TNF-a, the adhesion molecule VAP-1, epithelial cell
   adhesion molecule (EpCAM), intercellular adhesion molecule-3 (ICAM-3), leukointegrin
   adhesin, the platelet glycoprotein gp Ilb/IIla, cardiac myosin heavy chain, parathyroid
35 hormone, rNAPc2        (which is an inhibitor of factor Vlla-tissue factor),            MHC I,
   carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), tumor necrosis factor (TNF),
                                                  18

   CTLA-4 (which is a cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen), Fc-y- 1 receptor, HLA-DR
   10 beta, HLA-DR antigen, sclerostin, L-selectin, Respiratory Syncitial Virus, human
   immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), Streptococcus mutans, and
   Staphlycoccus aureus. Specific examples of known antibodies which can be produced using
 5 the methods of the invention include but are not limited to adalimumab, bevacizumab,
   infliximab, abciximab, alemtuzumab, bapineuzumab, basiliximab, belimumab, briakinumab,
   canakinumab,     certolizumab   pegol, cetuximab,    conatumumab, denosumab,         eculizumab,
   gemtuzumab ozogamicin, golimumab, ibritumomab tiuxetan, labetuzumab, mapatumumab,
   matuzumab, mepolizumab, motavizumab, muromonab-CD3, natalizumab, nimotuzumab,
10 ofatumumab,      omalizumab,     oregovomab,    palivizumab,     panitumumab,      pemtumomab,
   pertuzumab, ranibizumab, rituximab, rovelizumab, tocilizumab, tositumomab, trastuzumab,
   ustekinumab, vedolizomab, zalutumumab, and zanolimumab.
             The invention can also be used to produce recombinant fusion proteins comprising,
   for example, any of the above-mentioned proteins. For example, recombinant fusion proteins
15 comprising one of the above-mentioned proteins plus a multimerization domain, such as a
   leucine zipper, a coiled coil, an Fc portion of an immunoglobulin, or a substantially similar
   protein, can be produced using the methods of the invention. See e.g. W094/10308; Lovejoy
   et al. (1993), Science 259:1288-1293; Harbury et al. (1993), Science 262:1401-05; Harbury et
   al. (1994), Nature 371:80-83;      Hikansson et al.(1999), Structure 7:255-64.       Specifically
20 included among such recombinant fusion proteins are proteins in which a portion of a
   receptor is fused to an Fe portion of an antibody such as etanercept (a p75 TNFR:Fc), and
   belatacept (CTLA4:Fc).
             While the terminology used in this application is standard within the art, definitions
   of certain terms are provided herein to assure clarity and definiteness to the meaning of the
25 claims. Units, prefixes, and symbols may be denoted in their SI accepted form. Numeric
   ranges recited herein are inclusive of the numbers defining the range and include and are
   supportive of each integer within the defined range. The methods and techniques described
   herein are generally performed according to conventional methods well known in the art and
   as described in various general and more specific references that are cited and discussed
30 throughout the present specification unless otherwise indicated.      See, e.g., Sambrook et al.
   Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 3rd ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,
   Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (2001) and Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology,
   Greene Publishing Associates (1992), and Harlow and Lane Antibodies: A Laboratory
   Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1990).                  All
35 documents, or portions of documents, cited in this application, including but not limited to
   patents, patent applications, articles, books, and treatises, are hereby expressly incorporated
                                                  19

   by reference. What is described in an embodiment of the invention can be combined with
   other embodiments of the invention.
            The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments
   described herein that are intended as single illustrations of individual aspects of the invention,
 5 and functionally equivalent methods and components are within the scope of the invention.
   Indeed, various modifications of the invention, in addition to those shown and described
   herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and
   accompanying drawings. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the
   appended claims.
10
                                                  EXAMPLES
       Example 1
            This experiment compares different start up conditions using batch or fed batch
15 feeding methods followed by continuous perfusion using alternating tangential flow filtration.
   Perfusion was started either early during the early exponential growth phase ("batch" start up)
   with no additional feeds prior to perfusion or at the end of the exponential phase and entering
   into the stationary or production phase ("fed-batch" start up) receiving several bolus feeds of
   a serum-free defined feed media prior to perfusion.
20          On day 0, CHO cells expressing a recombinant antibody were inoculated into 2L
   production bioreactors at lx0 viable cells/mL in a working volume of 1500 ml of a serum
   free defined medium for the fed-batch start and 1800mL for the batch start.         Cultures were
   maintained at 360 C, dissolved oxygen (DO) at 30%, agitation at 215 RPM. Glucose was
   maintained above 0 g/L and below 8 g/L.
25          Perfusion was started on day 4 (0.25 Vol/day) for the batch cultures and on day 7
   (0.75 Vol/day) for the fed-batch cultures. Perfusion was accomplished using an alternating
   tangential flow perfusion and filtration system (Refine Technologies, Hanover, NJ, 50 kDa
   hollow fiber filter). Prior to starting perfusion the fed-batch cultures received bolus feeds of a
   concentrated serum-free defined feed media on day 4 (7.5% of initial working volume) and
30 day 6 (10% initial working volume). Perfusion rates are provided in Table 1.
       Table 1. Perfusion Rate
                                                           Perfusion Rate
                                       Day
                                                              (Vol/day)
                                      0-4*                      0.00
                                                    20

                                     4-6                       0.25
                                     6-7                       0.50
                                     7-10                      0.75
                                      10-                      1.00
                     Values are based on working volumes disclosed above
                     *Day 0-7 for the fed batch start
            During the culture run, daily samples were taken to assess the culture. Viable cell
 5 density (VCD) and viability were determined using Vi-Cell (Beckman Coulter, Brea, CA).
   Titer was measured by HPLC analysis. Packed cell volume was determined using VoluPAC
   (Sartorius, Goettingen, Germany).
            A temperature shift (36.0*C to 33.0*C) was applied when the viable cell density
   exceeded 20 x 106 viable cells/mL which was day 7 and day 11 for the batch and fed-batch
10 start conditions respectively.
            For the batch start-up conditions, the viable cell density continued to increase after
   the perfusion was started; for the fed-batch start conditions, the perfusion was started after the
   cell culture had reached a plateau or stationary phase with little growth.       On day 15, the
   viable cell density for the fed batch was between 27.7 and 30.7 x 106 viable cells/mL while
15 VCD of the batch culture was between 22.5 and 27.4 x 106 viable cells/mL (Figure IA).
   Viability of the fed batch culture was between 73.9 and 77.5% while the batch culture
   viability was between 72.5 and 83.1% (Figure lB). The titer of the fed batch culture was
   between 15.3 and 16.1 g/L while the batch culture titer was between 10.6 and 12.3 g/L
   (Figure IC). Since the integrated variable cell density (IVCD) values were similar for all four
20 cultures by day 15 (approximately 230 x 106 cell days/mL), the specific productivity was
   higher in the fed-batch start-up conditions. The fed batch cultures were continued to day 24.
   A titer of 20 g/L was achieved at 20 days.
            The alternating tangential flow perfusion with a fed batch start-up resulted in
   increased productivity, maintaining the cells in a more productive state compared to the batch
25 start method.
        Example 2
            On day 0, CHO cells expressing a recombinant antibody were inoculated into 2L
   production bioreactors at   Ix106 viable cells/mL in a working volume of 1500 ml of a serum
30 free defined medium for the batch start and 1300mL for the fed-batch start. Cultures were
   maintained at 36*C, DO at 30%, agitation at 215 RPM for batch cultures. The fed-batch
   culture was agitated at 430RPM. Fed-batch culture was fed to 7 g/L glucose daily prior to
                                                   21

   perfusion and all cultures were maintained at or above 4 g/L glucose during perfusion.
   Perfusion (alternating tangential flow) was started on day 4 (0.25 Vol/day) for the batch
   cultures and on day 8 (0.75 Vol/day) for the fed-batch culture. Prior to starting perfusion the
   fed-batch culture received bolus feeds of a concentrated serum-free defined feed media on
 5 day 4 (7.5% of initial working volume) and day 6 (10% initial working volume). Perfusion
   flow rates settings are provided in Table 2. The cultures were maintained for 21 days.
               Table 2. Perfusion Rate
                                                         Perfusion Rate
                                     Day                    (Vol/day)
                                     4-6                      0.25
                                     6-8                      0.50
                                    8-10                      0.75
                                      10-                      1.00
                     Values are based on working volumes disclosed above
10          During the culture run daily samples were taken as described above to assess the
   culture.
            A temperature shift (36.00 C to 33.0 0 C) was applied to the batch cultures on day 6
   when the viable cell density exceeded 20 x 106 viable cells/mL, as in Example 1. The fed
   batch culture was maintained at 36.00 C for the duration of the culture.
15          The batch start-up method cultures had results similar to those described above with
   the cells reaching approximately 20 to 25 x 106 viable cells/mL with no growth after day 10.
   The fed-batch culture reached almost 30 x 106 viable cells/mL on day 20 after spending most
   of the culture duration below 20 x 106 viable cells/mL, see Figure 2A. The viabilities all
   remained above 80% until day 10 and then dropping to about 40% by day 20 for the batch
20 start cultures and 60% for the fed-batch culture, see Figure 2B. The titer peaked at almost 15
   g/L for the batch start cultures, but it reached over 20 g/L for the high agitation fed-batch
   culture, see Figure 2C. It was observed that the batch start cultures had an L-asparagine
   concentration of about 3 to 4mM on day 3, and did not experience an asparagine limited
   culture environment.      However, the fed-batch perfusion start culture experienced an L
25 asparagine limited environment by day 6 prior to the start of the perfusion on day 7. The
   culture was then perfused with medium containing L-asparagine at a concentration of 2.0 g/L
   (or 13.3 mM) that resulted in no further L-asparagine limitations after day 8 (Figure 2D).
   Glucose concentrations were maintained mostly between 4 and 10 g/L.
                                                  22

            The fed-batch start-up with high agitation perfusion culture achieved the highest titer
   (over 20 g/L) in 20 days, more than 5 g/L higher than the batch start-up cultures, which was
   similar to the results described above. No negative effects of a higher agitation rate were
   observed. Maintaining a constant temperature did not appear to negatively impact the fed
 5 batch culture.
       Example 3
            This experiment characterizes the effects of perfusion volume and temperature shifts
   on an alternating tangential flow perfusion with a fed batch start-up as described above.   All
10 cultures were fed-batch start with perfusion beginning on day 7. Perfusion flow rates moving
   from three-quarter working volumes to full volume or from full working volume to three
   quarter working volume were tested. A temperature shift from 360 C to 330 C on Day 14 was
   also tested.
            On day 0, CHO cells expressing a recombinant antibody were inoculated into 2L
15 production bioreactors at 1x106 cells/mL in a working volume of 1200 ml of a serum-free
   defined medium.      Cultures were maintained at 360 C, DO at 30%. Prior to perfusion, glucose
   was fed to 7 g/L daily and during perfusion glucose was maintained above 1 g/L. The culture
   was maintained for 20 days.
            Cultures received bolus feeds of a concentrated serum-free defined feed media on day
20 4 (7.5% of initial working volume) and day 6 (10% initial working volume). Perfusion began
   on Day 8.      Perfusion rates are provided in Table 3. One culture from each group had a
   temperature shift from 360 C to 330 C on Day 15, the other cultures remained at 360 C for the
   duration of the experiment
25     Table 3. Perfusion Rate
                                                           Perfusion Rate
                            Condition         Day
                                                             (Vol/day)
                           Condition 1       8-12               0.75
                              (n=2)           12-               1.00
                           Condition 2       8-10               1.00
                              (n=2)           10-               0.75
                    Values are based on working volumes disclosed above
            Temperature shift and perfusion rate did not impact viable cell density, see Figure
   3A. However, a temperature shift appears to help preserve viability at later time points in a
                                                  23

   culture. There appears to be a break out between the temperatures shift conditions starting on
   Day 15 onward. The viability of the temperature shifted cultures dropped more slowly than
   the cultures that remained at 36*C, see Figure 3B. As for titer, three cultures showed very
   similar titers on Day 15 (17.1-17.9 g/L) as well as on Day 20 (22-24 g/L), but one culture had
 5 a higher titer on Day 15 (21.58 g/L) as well as on Day 20 (28.33 g/L) (see Figure 3C).
   Neither the temperature nor perfusion rates appeared to have any impact on titer production,
   suggesting that cultures can be maintained with different perfusion rates.
       Example 4
10          This experiment was designed to investigate the effects of perfusion medium
   asparagine concentrations and perfusion start conditions with either L-asparagine limited or
   non-limited culture environments on viable cell density during the production phase.
            On day 0, CHO cells expressing a recombinant antibody were inoculated into 2L
   production bioreactors at lx106 cells/mL in a working volume of 1500 ml for both the batch
15 and fed-batch start methods. Cultures were maintained at 360C, dissolved oxygen (DO) at
   30%, agitation at 400 RPM. Sparging was done using either a drilled pipe or a sintered
   sparger. Glucose was maintained above 0 g/L and below 8 g/L.
            Perfusion (alternating tangential flow) was started on day 3 (0.29 Vol/day) for the
   batch start "non-asparagine-limited cultures" and on day 7 (0.48 Vol/day) for the fed-batch
20 "asparagine-limited cultures".    The batch culture medium contained 1OmM L-asparagine.
   Prior to starting perfusion the fed-batch cultures received bolus feeds of a concentrated
   serum-free defined feed media on days 3 and 6 (7% initial working volume) containing
   113.4mM L-asparagine. Perfusion medium asparagine concentrations were either at a control
   concentration (17.3mM Asn in a serum free defined perfusion medium) or a low
25 concentration (5mM Asn in a serum free defined perfusion medium). Perfusion was carried
   out as described above. Perfusion rates are provided in Table 4.
       Table 4. Perfusion Rates
                                                           Perfusion Rate
                            Condition         Day            (Voda)
                                                             (Vol/day)
                              Day 3          3-4                0.29
                              Batch          4-7                0.48
                            Perfusion
                               Start         7-9                0.48
                               non-          9-11               0.67
                           asparagine
                             limited        11-20               0.96
                             culture
                                                  24

                               Day 7          7-9                0.48
                             Fed-Batch        9-11               0.67
                             Perfusion
                                Start
                            asparagine-      11 - 20             0.96
                              limited
                              culture
            During the culture run, daily samples were taken to assess the culture. Viable cell
   density (VCD) and viability were determined using Vi-Cell (Beckman Coulter, Brea, CA).
 5 Titer was measured by HPLC analysis. All cultures were maintained at 36.0*C.
            Reduction in cell growth and improved productivity was achieved during the
   production phase by limiting asparagine in the culture medium. On day 15, the maximum
   viable cell density was about 17.0 x 106 viable cells/mL for the fed-batch start cultures with
   low asparagine (Figure 4A). Control level asparagine cultures reached viable cell densities
10 exceeding 40x1 06 viable cells/mL (>30% packed cell volume).              Viability of the low
   asparagine fed-batch culture was 67.1% while the batch culture viability was 55.1% and the
   control was 69% (Figure 4B). The packed cell volume adjusted titer of the low asparagine
   fed-batch culture was 17.0 g/L (adjusted for packed cell volume) while the batch culture titer
   was between 15.4 g/L (Figure 4C). The controls had titers of 10.2 to 12.9 g/L (batch start)
15 and 14.2 to 15.9 g/L (fed-batch start).
            Maintaining asparagine levels at 5mM or less during the production resulted in
   growth-arrest, stimulated productivity and maintained viability during the production phase.
   Example: 5
20      This experiment compares media conditions during perfusion.          In this 2L bioreactor
   experiment, cells were inoculated into a chemically defined batch medium at a working
   volume of 1.5L, cultured for 3 days and then perfused for 12 days using a chemically defined
   perfusion medium containing either 17.3 mM L-asparagine and 4.6 mM L-glutamine or 5 mM
   L-asparagine and 10 mM L-glutamine.          Perfusion was accomplished using an alternating
25 tangential flow perfusion and filtration system (Refine Technologies, Hanover, NJ) with a 30
   kDa hollow fiber filter (GE Healthcare, Little Chalfont, UK). Perfusion was started on day 3
   at a rate of 0.3 culture volumes per day. The rate of perfusion was increased on days 4, 9, and
   11 as indicated in Table 6 below. Cultures were maintained at 360 C, DO at 30%, pH at 7.0,
   and agitation at 400 rpm.
30      During the culture run, daily samples were taken to assess the culture. Viable cell density
   (VCD) and viability were determined using Vi-Cell (Beckman Coulter, Brea, CA). Titer was
                                                   25

   measured by HPLC analysis. Packed cell volume was determined using VoluPAC (Sartorius,
   Goettingen, Germany).
 5 Table 5. Perfusion rate schedule
                                 Day                     Perfusion Rate (Vol/day)
                                   3                               0.30
                                   4                               0.50
                                   9                               0.67
                                   11                              0.96
            Asparagine limitation resulted in the accumulation of fewer cells and improved
   productivity. Cultures perfused with media containing 5 mM asparagine reached a maximum
10 VCD of 8.16 x 107 - 8.54 x 107 cells/mL while cultures perfused with media containing 17.3
   mM asparagine reached 11.9       x 107 - 12.2 x 107 cells/mL (Figure 5A). Although the cultures
   in 17.3 mM asparagine had more cells, the cultures in 5 mM asparagine made more product.
   Cultures perfused with media containing 17.3 mM asparagine made 6.89-7.18 g/L (4.33
   4.67 g/L packed cell volume adjusted) compared to 7.59-8.15 g/L (5.01 - 5.38 g/L packed
15 cell volume adjusted) for cultures perfused with media containing 5 mM asparagine (Figures
   5B and 5D). The final packed cell volume (PCV) of the 5mM asparagine cultures trended
   slightly lower than the 17.3 mM asparagine cultures (Figure 5C) and there was no difference
   in culture viability (Figure 5E).
            Interestingly, in this example increasing the concentration of glutamine by more than
20 two-fold in the low-asparagine condition (4.6 mM versus 10 mM glutamine) did not interfere
   with the ability of the low-asparagine medium to arrest the growth of the culture.
   Example 6
            This example compares the performance of a clonal, antibody-expressing CHO cell
25 line cultured in an ATF perfusion process using asparagine limitation to control growth at
   bench and pilot scales. The bench-scale model utilized 2L bioreactors and the pilot scale was
   500L. At bench scale, cells were inoculated into a chemically defined batch medium at a
   working volume of 1.5L and at pilot scale the working volume was about 378L. Cells were
   cultured for 3 days in the batch medium and then perfused for 12 days using a chemically
30 defined perfusion medium containing 5 mM L-asparagine and 10 mM L-glutamine.
   Perfusion was accomplished using an alternating tangential flow perfusion and filtration
   system (Refine Technologies, Hanover, NJ) with a 30 kDa                hollow fiber filter (GE
                                                    26

   1001529368
   Healthcare, Little Chalfont, UK).      Perfusion was started on day 3 at a rate of 0.3 culture
   volumes per day.     The rate of perfusion was increased on days 4, 9, and 11 as indicated in
   Table 7 below. Cultures were maintained at 36 0 C, 30% DO, and pH 6.9.
            During the culture run, daily samples were taken to assess the culture.     Viable cell
 5 density (VCD) and viability were determined bench scale using Vi-Cell (Beckman Coulter,
   Brea, CA) and at pilot scale using a CEDEX (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN).
   Titer was measured by HPLC analysis. Packed cell volume was determined using VoluPAC
   (Sartorius, Goettingen, Germany).
10 Table 6. Perfusion rate schedule
                                 Day                    Perfusion Rate (Vol/day)
                                   3                              0.30
                                  4                               0.50
                                  9                               0.67
                                  11                              0.96
            Data from four bench scale cultures and two pilot scale cultures is provided.      VCD
   curves were similar at both scales, growth control was achieved (Figure 6A), and the total cell
   mass (packed cell volume) was maintained below 30% at both scales (Figure 6C).          Although
15 the VCD reached a plateau around day 10 or day 11, the packed cell volume continued to
   increase until about day 13 or 14 (Figure 6C).     Productivity was also similar between scales.
   Cultures perfused with media containing 5 mM asparagine made 14.2 - 15.7 g/L (10.7 - 11.4
   g/L packed cell volume adjusted) at 2L bench scale compared to 15.0 - 17.3 g/L (10.6 - 12.8
   g/L packed cell volume adjusted) at 500L pilot scale (Figures 6B and 6D). Viability trended
20 slightly lower at the pilot scale (Figure 6E).
            Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgment, or any form of suggestion, that this prior art forms part of the common
   general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably
   be expected to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the
25 art.
            As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise" and
   variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended
   to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                                                   27

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       A method of (a) arresting cell growth in a mammalian cell culture expressing a
recombinant protein, (b) increasing recombinant protein production in a mammalian cell culture
expressing a recombinant protein, and/or (c) limiting a mammalian cell culture expressing a
recombinant protein at a desired packed cell volume, comprising
          establishing a mammalian cell culture in a serum-free culture medium in a bioreactor;
          inducing cell growth-arrest by perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium having an
L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less;
          maintaining the mammalian cells in a growth-arrested state by perfusion with a serum
free perfusion medium having an L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less.
2.        The method of claim 1, wherein the perfusion with a serum-free perfusion medium
having an L-asparagine concentration of 5mM or less begins on or before day 3 of the culture.
3.        The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein induction of cell growth-arrest takes
place prior to a production phase or during a production phase.
4.        The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein cell growth-arrest is induced
by L-asparagine starvation.
5.        The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising a temperature
shift from 360 C to 31 'C, or from 360 C to 330 C.
6.        The method according to claim 5, wherein the temperature shift occurs at the transition
between a growth phase and a production phase, or during a production phase.
7.        The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the concentration of L
asparagine in the serum-free perfusion medium is less than or equal to 5mM, less than or equal
to 4.0 mM, less than or equal to 3.0 mM, less than or equal to 2.0 mM, less than or equal to 1.0
mM, or is 0 mM.
8.        The method according to claim 4, wherein the L-asparagine concentration of the cell
culture medium is monitored prior to and during L-asparagine starvation.
                                                 28

9.        The method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, further comprising wherein the
packed cell volume during a production phase is less than or equal to 35% or less than or equal
to 30%.
10.       The method according to claim 9, wherein the viable cell density of the mammalian cell
                                                                                                    6
culture at a packed cell volume less than or equal to 35% is 10x106 viable cells/ml to 80x10
viable cells/ml.
11.       The method according to claim 9, wherein the viable cell density of the mammalian cell
                                                                                                    6
culture at a packed cell volume less than or equal to 35% is 20x106 viable cells/ml to 30x10
viable cells/ml.
12.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein perfusion comprises
continuous perfusion.
13.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the rate of perfusion is
constant.
14.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein perfusion is performed (a)
at a rate of less than or equal to 1.0 working volumes per day or (b) at a rate that increases during
the production phase from 0.25 working volume per day to 1.0 working volume per day during
the cell culture.
15.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the mammalian cell culture
is established by inoculating the bioreactor with at least 0.5 x 106 to 3.0 x 106 cells/mL in a
serum-free culture medium.
16.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the mammalian cell culture
is established by inoculating the bioreactor with at least 0.5 x 106 to 1.5 x 106 cells/mL in a
serum-free culture medium.
17.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the perfusion is
accomplished by alternating tangential flow.
18.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the bioreactor has a
capacity of at least 500L.
19.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the bioreactor has a
capacity of at least 500L to 2000L.
                                                 29

20.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the bioreactor has a
capacity of at least 1000L to 2000L.
21.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein the mammalian cells are
Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells.
22.       The method according to any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the recombinant protein is
selected from the group consisting of a human antibody, a humanized antibody, a chimeric
antibody, a recombinant fusion protein, or a cytokine.
23.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 22, further comprising a step of harvesting the
recombinant protein produced by the cell culture.
24.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 23, wherein the recombinant protein produced by
the cell culture is purified and formulated in a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation.
25.       The method of claim 1(b), wherein recombinant protein production in the mammalian
cell culture is increased compared to a culture where the cells are not subjected to L-asparagine
induced cell growth-arrest.
                                                  30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
