ABSTRACT
The present invention provides combination therapy methods of treating a proliferative disease (such as
cancer) comprising a first therapy comprising administering to an individual an effective amount of a taxane
and a carrier protein in a nanoparticle composition, and a second therapy comprising administration of an
effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a pro survival and/or inflammatory signal.

COMBINATIONS AND MODES OF ADMINISTRATION OF THERAPEUTIC
                    AGENTS AND COMBINATION THERAPY
                               RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          The present application has been divided out of Australian patent
application <removed-apn>, which itself is a divisional of Australian patent application
2009324464, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In the
description in this present specification reference may be made to subject matter
which is not within the scope of the appended claims but relates to subject matter
claimed in AU 2009324464. That subject matter should be readily identifiable by a
person skilled in the art and may assist in putting into practice the invention as
defined in the presently appended claims.
10002]          This application claims priority benefit to provisional applications
61/201,624, filed on December 11, 2008 and 61/178,430, filed on May 14, 2009, the
contents of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
                                   TECHNICAL FIELD
[00031          The present invention relates to methods and compositions for the
treatment of proliferative diseases comprising the administration of a combination of
a taxane and at least one other therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of
proliferative diseases. In particular, the invention relates to the use of nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Abraxane*) in combination with other
agents or radiation, which may be used for the treatment of cancer.
                                     BACKGROUND
[00041          The failure of a significant number of tumors to respond to drug and/or
radiation therapy is a serious problem in the treatment of cancer. In fact, this is one of
the main reasons why many of the most prevalent forms of human cancer still resist
effective chemotherapeutic intervention, despite certain advances in the field of
chemotherapy.
[0005]          Cancer is now primarily treated with one or a combination of three
types of therapies: surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. Surgery is a traditional
approach in which all or part of a tumor is removed from the body. Surgery generally
is only effective for treating the earlier stages of cancer. While surgery is sometimes
                                               1

effective in removing tumors located at certain sites, for example, in the breast, colon,
and skin, it cannot be used in the treatment of tumors located in other areas,
inaccessible to surgeons, nor in the treatment of disseminated neoplastic conditions
such as leukemia. For more than 50% of cancer individuals, by the time they are
diagnosed they are no longer candidates for effective surgical treatment. Surgical
procedures may increase tumor metastases through blood circulation during surgery.
Most of cancer individuals do not die from the cancer at the time of diagnosis or
surgery, but rather die from the metastasis and the recurrence of the cancer.
 [0006]          Other therapies are also often ineffective. Radiation therapy is only
effective for individuals who present with clinically localized disease at early and
middle stages of cancer, and is not effective for the late stages of cancer with
metastasis. Radiation is generally applied to a defined area of the subject's body
which contains abnormal proliferative tissue, in order to maximize the dose absorbed
by the abnormal tissue and minimize the dose absorbed by the nearby normal tissue.
However, it is difficult (if not impossible) to selectively administer therapeutic
radiation to the abnormal tissue. Thus, normal tissue proximate to the abnormal tissue
is also exposed to potentially damaging doses of radiation throughout the course of
treatment. There are also some treatments that require exposure of the subject's entire
body to the radiation, in a procedure called "total body irradiation", or "TBI." The
efficacy of radiotherapeutic techniques in destroying abnormal proliferative cells is
therefore balanced by associated cytotoxic effects on nearby normal cells. Because of
this, radiotherapy techniques have an inherently narrow therapeutic index which
results in the inadequate treatment of most tumors. Even the best radiotherapeutic
techniques may result in incomplete tumor reduction, tumor recurrence, increasing
tumor burden, and induction of radiation resistant tumors.
 [00071          Chemotherapy involves the disruption of cell replication or cell
metabolism. Chemotherapy can be effective, but there are severe side effects, e.g.,
vomiting, low white blood cells (WBC), loss of hair, loss of weight and other toxic
effects. Because of the extremely toxic side effects, many cancer individuals cannot
successfully finish a complete chemotherapy regime. Chemotherapy-induced side
effects significantly impact the quality of life of the individual and may dramatically
influence individual compliance with treatment. Additionally, adverse side effects
associated with other agents are generally the major dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in
the administration of these drugs. For example, mucositis is one of the major dose

limiting toxicity for several anticancer agents, including the antimetabolite cytotoxic
agents 5-FU, methotrexate, and antitumor antibiotics, such as doxorubicin. Many of
these chemotherapy-induced side effects if severe may lead to hospitalization, or
require treatment with analgesics for the treatment of pain. Some cancer individuals
die from the chemotherapy due to poor tolerance to the chemotherapy. The extreme
side effects of anticancer drugs are caused by the poor target specificity of such drugs.
The drugs circulate through most normal organs of individuals as well as intended
target tumors. The poor target specificity that causes side effects also decreases the
efficacy of chemotherapy because only a fraction of the drugs is correctly targeted.
The efficacy of chemotherapy is further decreased by poor retention of the anti-cancer
drugs within the target tumors.
 [00081         Due to the severity and breadth of neoplasm, tumor and cancer, there is
a great need for effective treatments of such diseases or disorders that overcome the
shortcomings of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation treatment.
 [00091         Paclitaxel has been shown to have significant antineoplastic and
anticancer effects in drug-refractory ovarian cancer and has shown excellent
antitumor activity in a wide variety of tumor models, and also inhibits angiogenesis
when used at very low doses (Grant et al., Int. J. Cancer, 2003). The poor aqueous
solubility of paclitaxel, however, presents a problem for human administration.
Indeed, the delivery of drugs that are inherently insoluble or poorly soluble in an
aqueous medium can be seriously impaired if oral delivery is not effective.
Accordingly, currently used paclitaxel formulations (e.g., Taxol*) require a
Cremophor* to solubilize the drug. The presence of Cremophor* in this formulation
has been linked to severe hypersensitivity reactions in animals (Lorenz et al., Agents
Actions 7:63-67 (1987)) and humans (Weiss et al., J. Clin. Oncol. 8:1263-68 (1990))
and consequently requires premedication of individuals with corticosteroids
(dexamethasone) and antihistamines. It was also reported that clinically relevant
concentrations of the formulation vehicle Cremophor* EL in Taxol* nullify the
antiangiogenic activity of paclitaxel, suggesting that this agent or other anticancer
drugs formulated in Cremophor*> EL may need to be used at much higher doses than
anticipated to achieve effective metronomic chemotherapy (Ng et al., CancerRes.,
64:821-824 (2004)). As such, the advantage of the lack of undesirable side effects
associated with low-dose paclitaxel regimes vs. conventional MTD chemotherapy
may be compromised. See also U.S. Patent Pub. No. 2004/0143004; WOOO/64437.

 10010]         It has been found that nanoparticle compositions of a taxane (such as
albumin bound paclitaxel (nab-paclitaxel or Abraxane*)) have significantly lower
toxicities than other taxanes like Taxol* and Taxotere* with significantly improved
outcomes in both safety and efficacy.
 [0011]         Combination chemotherapy, e.g., combining one or more other agents
or other modes of treatment, e.g., combining for example, chemotherapy with
radiation or surgery and chemotherapy, have been found to be more successful than
single agent chemotherapeutics or individual modes of treatment respectively.
 [0012]         Other references include U.S. Pub. No. 2006/0013819; U.S. Pub. No.
2006/0003931; 20060263434, and PCT Application Nos. WO05/117986;
W005/117978; WO05/000900, W006/089290, W008/057562, W02009126938AI,
W02009126401A1, W02009126175Al.
 10013]         More effective treatments for proliferative diseases, especially cancer,
are needed.
 [00141         The disclosures of all publications, patents, patent applications and
published patent applications referred to herein are hereby incorporated herein by
reference in their entirety.
                       BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0015]         The present invention provides methods for the treatment of
proliferative diseases such as cancer. The invention provides combination therapy
methods of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer), comprising administering
to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin), and b) an effective
amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory
signal. In some embodiments, the invention provides a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual comprising administering to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane*), and b) an
effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal. In some embodiments, the agent affects the signaling pathway
involving Akt. In some embodiments, the agent affects the signaling pathway
involving MAP kinase. In some embodiments, the agent affects the signaling
pathway involving bcl-2. In some embodiments, the agent affects the signaling
                                             I

pathway involving any one or more of: IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, NF-B p65, p50, and
p42/44 kinase. In some embodiments, the agent inhibits taxane-mediated prosurvival
and/or inflammatory response. In some embodiments, the agent abrogates or reduces
stress response elicited by taxane. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is
resistant to the treatment of taxane when administered alone.
 10016]          In some embodiments, the composition comprising nanoparticles (also
referred to as "nanoparticle composition") and the other agent are administered
simultaneously, either in the same composition or in separate compositions. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are administered
sequentially, i.e., the nanoparticle composition is administered either prior to or after
the administration of the other agent. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered prior to the administration of the other agent.
 10017]          In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle
composition and the other agent are concurrent, i.e., the administration period of the
nanoparticle composition and that of the other agent overlap with each other. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered for at least one cycle (for
example, at least any of 2, 3, or 4 cycles) prior to the administration of the other
agent. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered for at least any of one,
two, three, or four weeks after the termination of the nanoparticle composition.
 [0018]          In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle
composition and the other agent are non-concurrent. For example, in some
embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle composition is terminated before
the other agent is administered. In some embodiments, the administration of the other
agent is terminated before the nanoparticle composition is administered.
 [00191          In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of Akt, including
for example perifosine, GSK690693, triciribine phosphate monohydrate, API-2/TCN,
XL418, and erlotinib (Tarceva'). In some embodiments, the agent is perifosine. In
some embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated
upregulation of Akt in vivo.
 [00201          For example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer), comprising administering to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as albumin), and
b) an effective amount of a perifosine. In some embodiments, the perifosine is in an

amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of Akt in vivo. in some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as
cancer), comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a
carrier protein (such as albumin), and b) an effective amount of an ertolinib. In some
embodiments, the erlotinib is in an amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated
upregulation of Akt in vivo.
 [00211          In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of MAP kinase,
including for example SL327, U0126, SP600125, PD98059, SB203580, SB202190,
Arctigenin, PD198306, PD254552,PD318894, and PD320125-2. In some
embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated
upregulation of MAP kinase in vivo.
 10022]          In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of bcl-2,
including for example HA 14-1, Obatoclax, ABT-737, and ABT263. Other agents
that inhibit bcl-2 are described in US20090099072, W006082304A2, and
US7459434.
 [0023]          For example, in some embodiments., there is provided a method of
treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual comprising
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of
a small molecule that inhibits the activity of bcl-2. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual
comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and albumin (such as Abraxane*, and
b) an effective amount of a small molecule that inhibits the activity of bcl-2.
 [00241          In some embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective to suppress
taxane-mediated upregulation of bcl-2 in vivo. In some embodiments, the other agent
is an antisense oligonucleotide that inhibits the expression of bcl-2. In some
embodiments, the antisense oligonucleotide is an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide. In
some embodiments, the antisense oligonucleotide is an antisense
oligodeoxyribonucleotide. In some embodiments, the other agent is oblimersen. For
example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative
disease (such as cancer, for example melanoma, e.g., advanced melanoma) in an
individual comprising administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a

composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin
(such as Abraxane*), and b) an antisense oligonucleotide that inhibits the expression
of bcl-2. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative
disease (such as cancer, for example melanoma, e.g., advanced melanoma) in an
individual comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin
(such as Abraxane*), and b) oblimersen.
 [00251         In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of bcl-xL. In
some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of both bcl-2 and bcl-xL.
 100261         In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering to
the individual an alkylating agent, such as temozolomide. Thus, for example, in some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as
cancer, for example melanoma, e.g., advanced melanoma) in an individual comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane*), and
b) an antisense oligonucleotide that inhibits the expression of bcl-2 (such as
oblimersen), and c) an alkylating agent (such as temozolomide). In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating melanoma (such as advanced
melanoma) in an individual comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective
amount of nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as
Abraxane*), b) an effective amount of oblimersen, and c) an effective amount of
temozolomide. In some embodiments, the individual has normal LDH.
 [00271         In some embodiments., the other agent is an inhibitor of IL-6, including
for example Tocilizumab, Am-80, IL-6 receptor fusion protein, Gp130, SAMURAI.
In some embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective to suppress taxane
mediated upregulation of IL-6 in vivo.
 [0028]         In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of IL-8, including
for example IL-8INH, [Ala-IL-8]77, REPARIXIN, Ascidian Lissoclinum sp,
lissoclinum disulfoxide. In some embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective to
suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of IL-8 in vivo.
 [0029]         In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of TNF-a,
including for example Adalimumab, Certolizumab pegol, Etanercept, Infliximab, and
TNF inhibitor. In some embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective to suppress
taxane-mediated upregulation of TNF-a in vivo.

10030]           In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of NF-KB (such
as inhibitor of the phosphorylation of NF-KB p65). In some embodiments, the agent
is in an amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of NF-cB (such
as inhibitor of NF-KB p65 phosphorylation) in vivo. Inhibitors of NF-kB can be
found, for example, at http://people.bu.edu/gilmore/nf-kb/inhibitors/index.html,
incorporated herein in its entirety.
[00311          In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of the p50 (such
as inhibitor of p50 phosphorylation). In some embodiments, the agent is in an amount
effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of p50 (such as p50
phophorylation) in vivo.
[00321           In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of p42/44 (such
as inhibitor of p42/44 phosphorylation), including for example PD98059, U0126. In
some embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated
upregulation of p42/44 (such as p42/44 phosphorylation) in vivo.
[00331           The methods of the invention generally comprise administration of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein. In
some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition comprises nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel and an albumin. In some embodiments, the nanoparticles in the
composition described herein have an average diameter of no greater than about 200
nm, including for example no greater than about any one of 190. 180, 170, 160, 150,
140, 130, 120, 110, 100, 90, 80, 70, or 60 ni. In some embodiments, at least about
50% (for example at least about any one of 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99%) of
all the nanoparticles in the composition have a diameter of no greater than about 200
nm, including for example no greater than about any one of 190, 180, 170, 160, 150,
140, 130, 120, 110, 100, 90, 80, 70, or 60 rnm. In some embodiments, at least about
50% (for example at least any one of 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99%) of all the
nanoparticles in the composition fall within the range of about 20 to about 400,
including for example about 20 to about 200 nm, about 30 to about 180 nm, and any
one of about 40 to about 150, about 50 to about 120, and about 60 to about 100 mn.
[00341          In some embodiments, the carrier protein has sulfhydral groups that
can form disulfide bonds. In some embodiments, at least about 5% (including for
example at least about any one of 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%,
80%, or 90%) of the carrier protein in the nanoparticle portion of the composition are
crosslinked (for example crosslinked through one or more disulfide bonds).
                                            0

10035]          In some embodiments, the nanoparticles comprise the taxane (such as
paclitaxel) coated with a carrier protein, such as albumin (e.g., human serum
albumin). In some embodiments, the composition comprises taxane in both
nanoparticle and non-nanoparticle form, wherein at least about any one of 50%, 60%,
70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the taxane in the composition are in nanoparticle
form. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticles constitutes more than
about any one of 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the nanoparticles by
weight. In some embodiments, the nanoparticles have a non-polymeric matrix. In
some embodiments, the nanoparticles comprise a core of taxane that is substantially
free of polymeric materials (such as polymeric matrix).
[00361          In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is substantially
free (such as free) of surfactants (such as Cremophor®, Tween 80, or other organic
solvents used for the administration of taxanes). In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle composition contains less than about any one of 20%, 15%, 10%, 7.5%,
5%, 2.5%, or 1% organic solvent. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of carrier
protein (such as albumin) and taxane in the nanoparticle composition is about 18:1 or
less, such as about 15:1 or less, for example about 10:1 or less. In some
embodiments, the weight ratio of carrier protein (such as albumin) and taxane in the
composition falls within the range of any one of about 1:1 to about 18:1, about 2:1 to
about 15:1. about 3:1 to about 13:1, about 4:1 to about 12:1, about 5:1 to about 10:1.
In some embodiments, the weight ratio of carrier protein and taxane in the
nanoparticle portion of the composition is about any one of 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:10,
1:15, or less.
[0037]          In some embodiments, the particle composition comprises one or more
of the above characteristics.
[00381          In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is Abraxane.
Nanoparticle compositions comprising other taxanes (such as docetaxel and ortataxel)
may also comprise one or more of the above characteristics.
[00391          Also provided are kits and compositions useful for methods described
herein.
[0040]          The methods of the present application are useful for the treatment of
various diseases, including, for example, breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell
lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic

cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and
multiple myeloma.
[00411          These and other aspects and advantages of the present invention will
become apparent from the subsequent detailed description and the appended claims.
It is to be understood that one, some, or all of the properties of the various
embodiments described herein may be combined to form other embodiments of the
present invention.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
100421          Figure 1 shows increased pro-survival signals in response to low level
Abraxane* in MDAMB-231 cells. Increased signal indicated by *. Levels of P-actin
were used as loading control.
10043]          Figure 2 shows increased secretion of VEGF in response to low level
Abraxane* in MDA-MB-231 cells as measured by ELISA.
[00441          Figure 3 shows increased secretion of inflammatory proteins in MDA
MB-231 cells in response to low level Abraxane*. A. Increased secretion of IL-6 and
IL-8; B. Increased secretion of TNF-a.
[00451          Figure 4 shows upregulation of pro-survival signals in vivo in the
remaining MDA-MB-23 1 breast tumors that survived Abraxane* treatment. Increased
signal indicated by *. Levels of P- actin were used as loading control.
[00461          Figure 5 shows increased bcl-2 expression in vivo in the surviving
MDAMB-231 breast tumors following Abraxane® treatment. Animals were
sacrificed on the indicated days post-treatment and tumor sections were stained for
bcl-2 expression.
[00471          Figure 6A shows Western blots of lysates of 231 -Luc' cells treated
with a nab-paclitaxel (0-30 nM) for 8 (left), 24 (center) and 48 (right) hours. Control
and treated 231 -Luc cell lysates were analyzed by Western blot for changes in the
phosphoiylated and non-phosphorylated forms of NF-r-B p50, NF-kB p65, Erk
p44/42, Akt, and unmodified Bcl-xL. p-actin served as a loading control. The
asterisks represent targets with significant changes in response to nab-paclitaxel
treatment.
100481          Figures 6B and 6C show production of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6
and IL-8 in Figure 6B and TNF-alpha in Figure 6C) by 23 1-Luc* cells treated for 72

hours with nab-paclitaxel (0-30 nM) determined in the conditioned medium by
Luminex assay. Data are presented as the mean cytokine concentration normalized per
number of viable tumor cells that derived from two independent experiments ± SE.
 [00491          Figure 7A shows Western blots of mixed lysates from tumors
harvested on days 3, 5 and 8. Western blot analysis of expression of the
phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated forms of NF-KB p50, p44/42, Akt, and
unmodified Bcl-2 and Bcl-xLwere analyzed. p-actin was used as a loading control.
 [00501          Figure 7B shows tumor sections from mice treated with nab-paclitaxel
for 3, 5, and 8 days stained with antibodies against pro-survival proteins, Bcl-2 (top
row) and Bcl-xL (bottom row). All images were acquired at 200X magnification from
the margins of the tumor.
                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [00511          The present invention provides methods of combination therapy
comprising a first therapy comprising administration of nanoparticles comprising a
taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin) in conjunction with a second agent that
inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal.
 [00521          The present invention is based on the finding that paclitaxel in a
nanoparticle formulation, specifically, Abraxane* (or nab-paclitaxel) elicits an
upregulation of pro-survival and inflammatory signals such as Akt, VEGF-A, bcl-2,
bcl-xL., IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, as well as phosphorylated NF-KB p6 5 , p50, and p42/44
kinases. We hypothesize that combination therapy of a nanoparticle composition
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as Abraxane*") with inhibitors of pro
survival and inflammatory signals would significantly improve the efficacy of
nanoparticle forms of taxane-based therapy by counteracting the stress responses in
therapy-spared tumor cells.
 [0053]          The present application thus provides methods of combination therapy.
It is to be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art that the combination
therapy methods described herein requires that one agent or composition be
administered in conjunction with another agent. "In conjunction with" refers to
administration of one treatment modality in addition to another treatment modality,
such as administration of a nanoparticle composition described herein in addition to
administration of the other agent to the same individual. As such, "in conjunction
                                            11

with" refers to administration of one treatment modality before, during or after
delivery of the other treatment modality to the individual.
 [00541          The methods described herein are generally useful for treatment of
diseases, particularly proliferative diseases. As used herein, "treatment" is an
approach for obtaining beneficial or desired clinical results. For purposes of this
invention, beneficial or desired clinical results include, but are not limited to, any one
or more of: alleviation of one or more symptoms, diminishment of extent of disease,
preventing or delaying spread (e.g., metastasis, for example metastasis to the lung or
to the lymph node) of disease, preventing or delaying recurrence of disease, delay or
slowing of disease progression, amelioration of the disease state, and remission
(whether partial or total). Also encompassed by "treatment" is a reduction of
pathological consequence of a proliferative disease. The methods of the invention
contemplate any one or more of these aspects of treatment.
 100551         As used herein, a "proliferative disease" is defined as a tumor disease
(including benign or cancerous) and/or any metastases, wherever the tumor or the
metastasis are located, more specifically a tumor selected from the group comprising
one or more of (and in some embodiments selected from the group consisting of)
breast cancer, genitourinary cancer, lung cancer, gastrointestinal cancer, epidermoid
cancer, melanoma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, neuroblastoma, colorectal
cancer, head and neck cancer. In some embodiments, the cancer is selected from the
group consisting of breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and
non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer,
melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple
myeloma. In a broader sense of the invention, a proliferative disease may furthermore
be selected from hyperproliferative conditions such as hyperplasias, fibrosis
(especially pulmonary, but also other types of fibrosis, such as renal fibrosis),
angiogenesis, psoriasis, atherosclerosis and smooth muscle proliferation in the blood
vessels, such as stenosis or restenosis following angioplasty. In some embodiments,
the proliferative disease is cancer. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is a
non-cancerous disease. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is a benign or
malignant tumor. Where hereinbefore and subsequently a tumor, a tumor disease, a
carcinoma or a cancer are mentioned, also metastasis in the original organ or tissue
and/or in any other location are implied alternatively or in addition, whatever the
location of the tumor and/or metastasis is.

 10056]          The term "effective amount" used herein refers to an amount of a
compound or composition sufficient to treat a specified disorder, condition or disease
such as ameliorate, palliate, lessen, and/or delay one or more of its symptoms. In
reference to cancers or other unwanted cell proliferation, an effective amount
comprises an amount sufficient to cause a tumor to shrink and/or to decrease the
growth rate of the tumor (such as to suppress tumor growth) or to prevent or delay
other unwanted cell proliferation. In some embodiments, an effective amount is an
amount sufficient to delay development. In some embodiments, an effective amount
is an amount sufficient to prevent or delay recurrence. An effective amount can be
administered in one or more administrations. In the case of cancer, the effective
amount of the drug or composition may: (i) reduce the number of cancer cells; (ii)
reduce tumor size; (iii) inhibit, retard, slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer
cell infiltration into peripheral organs; (iv) inhibit (i.e., slow to some extent and
preferably stop) tumor metastasis; (v) inhibit tumor growth; (vi) prevent or delay
occurrence and/or recurrence of tumor; and/or (vii) relieve to some extent one or more
of the symptoms associated with the cancer.
 [0057]          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a primary
tumor. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating metastatic
cancer (that is, cancer that has metastasized from the primary tumor). In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as
cancer) (and in broader aspect method of treating a proliferative disease) at advanced
stage(s). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating breast cancer
(which may be HER2 positive or HER2 negative), including, for example, advanced
breast cancer, stage IV breast cancer, locally advanced breast cancer, and metastatic
breast cancer. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating lung
cancer, including, for example, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC, such as advanced
NSCLC), small cell lung cancer (SCLC, such as advanced SCLC), and advanced solid
tumor malignancy in the lung. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating any of ovarian cancer, head and neck cancer, gastric malignancies, melanoma
(including metastatic melanoma and malignant melanoma), colorectal cancer,
pancreatic cancer, and solid tumors (such as advanced solid tumors). In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a disease that is refractory to
treatment of a taxane when administered alone. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of reducing cell proliferation and/or cell migration. In some

embodiments, there is provided a method of treating any of the following diseases:
restenosis, stenosis, fibrosis, angiogenesis, psoriasis, atherosclerosis, and proliferation
of smooth muscle cells. The present invention also provides methods of delaying
development of any of the proliferative diseases described herein.
[0058]           The term "individual" is a mammal, including humans. An individual
includes, but is not limited to, human, bovine, horse, feline, canine, rodent, or primate.
In some embodiments, the individual is human. The individual (such as human) may
have advanced disease or lesser extent of disease, such as low tumor burden. In some
embodiments, the individual is at an early stage of a proliferative disease (such as
cancer). In some embodiments, the individual is at an advanced stage of a
proliferative disease (such as an advanced cancer). In some embodiments, the
individual is HER2 positive. In some embodiments, the individual is HER2 negative.
10059]           The methods may be practiced in an adjuvant setting. "Adjuvant
setting" refers to a clinical setting in which an individual has had a history of a
proliferative disease, particularly cancer, and generally (but not necessarily) been
responsive to therapy, which includes, but is not limited to, surgery (such as surgical
resection), radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. However, because of their history of the
proliferative disease (such as cancer), these individuals are considered at risk of
development of the disease. Treatment or administration in the "adjuvant setting"
refers to a subsequent mode of treatment. The degree of risk (i.e., when an individual
in the adjuvant setting is considered as "high risk" or "low risk") depends upon
several factors, most usually the extent of disease when first treated. The methods
provided herein may also be practiced in a neoadjuvant setting, i.e., the method may
be carried out before the primary/definitive therapy. In some embodiments, the
individual has previously been treated. In some embodiments, the individual has not
previously been treated. In some embodiments, the treatment is a first line therapy.
[0060]           It is understood that aspect and embodiments of the invention
described herein include "consisting" and/or "consisting essentially of' aspects and
embodiments.
[00611           Reference to "about" a value or parameter herein includes (and
describes) variations that are directed to that value or parameter per se. For example,
description referring to "about X" includes description of "X".
[00621          As used herein and in the appended claims, the singular forms "a."
"or," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It
                                              1A

is understood that aspects and variations of the invention described herein include
"consisting" and/or "consisting essentially of' aspects and variations.
Methods of combination therapy
[0063]          The present invention provides methods of treating a proliferative
disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual:
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane
and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective amount of at least one
other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. The present
invention provides methods of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an
individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such
as albumin); and b) an effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a
prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal, wherein the other agent is in an amount
effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of the prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal. In some embodiments, the taxane is any of (and in come
embodiments consisting essentially of) paclitaxel, docetaxel, and ortataxel. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition comprises Abraxane*. In some
embodiments, the proliferative disease is a cancer selected from the group consisting
of breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung
cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer,
brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple myeloma.
[00641          In some embodiments., there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory
signal, wherein the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are administered
concurrently. In some embodiments, the administrations of the nanoparticle
composition and the other agent are initiated at about the same time (for example,
within any one of 1. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days). In some embodiments, the
administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are terminated at
about the same time (for example, within any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days). In
some embodiments, the administration of the other agent continues (for example for

about any one of 0.5, 1. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) after the
termination of the administration of the nanoparticle composition. In some
embodiments, the administration of the other agent is initiated after (for example after
about any one of 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. or 12 months) the initiation of the
administration of the nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the
administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are initiated and
terminated at about the same time. In some embodiments, the administrations of the
nanoparticle composition and the other agent are initiated at about the same time and
the administration of the other agent continues (for example for about any one of 0.5,
 1, 2, 3. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 11, or 12 months) after the termination of the administration
of the nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the administration of the
nanoparticle composition and the other agent stop at about the same time and the
administration of the other agent is initiated after (for example after about any one of
0.5, 1, 2. 3, 4, 5. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) the initiation of the administration of
the nanoparticle composition.
 [0065]            In some embodiments, the taxane is any of (and in some embodiments
consisting essentially of) paclitaxel, docetaxel, and ortataxel. In some embodiments,
the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the taxane is docetaxel. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition comprises Abraxane*. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is Abraxane*8.
 [00661            Thus, for example, in some embodiments, there is provided a In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as
cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as
paclitaxel) coated with a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective amount
of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In
some embodiments, the nanoparticles have an average size of 20-400 nm, such as 40
200 nm. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative
disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual:
a) an effective amount Abraxane*; and b) an effective amount of at least one other
agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some embodiments,
the nanoparticle composition (such as Abraxane*) and the other agent are
administered concurrently. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is a cancer
selected from the group consisting of breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell
                                               14.

lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic
cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and
multiple myeloma.
 [00671         In some embodiments, the other agent affects the signaling pathway
involving Akt. In some embodiments, the other agent affects the signaling pathway
involving MAP kinase. In some embodiments, the agent affects the signaling
pathway involving bcl-2 and/or bcl-xL. In some embodiments, the other agent affects
the signaling pathway involving any one of: IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, NF-B p65, p50, and
p42/44 kinase. In some embodiments, the agent inhibits taxane-mediated prosurvival
and/or inflammatory response.
 [00681         The other agents described herein can be the agents themselves,
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and pharmaceutically acceptable esters
thereof, as well as steroisomers, enantiomers, racemic mixtures, and the like. The
other agent or agents as described can be administered as well as a pharmaceutical
composition containing the agent(s), wherein the pharmaceutical composition
comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier vehicle, or the like.
 [0069]         Reference to an agent herein applies to the other agent or its
derivatives and accordingly the invention contemplates and includes either of these
embodiments (agent; agent or derivative(s)). "Derivatives" or "analogs" of an agent
or other chemical moiety include, but are not limited to, compounds that are
structurally similar to the other agent or moiety or are in the same general chemical
class as the other agent or moiety. In some embodiments, the derivative or analog of
the other agent or moiety retains similar chemical and/or physical property (including,
for example, functionality) of the other agent or moiety.
 [00701         Thus, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) and b) an effective amount of
at least one other agent that affects the PI3K/Akt pathway and/or cAMP/AMPK
pathway. Because these pathways are interrelated, an agent that affects one signaling
pathway frequently affects the other pathway (either directly or indirectly).
 10071]         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles

comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) and b) an effective amount of
at least one other agent that inhibits PI3K/Akt activation. In some embodiments, the
proliferative disease is cancer. In some embodiments, the cancer is any of HER2+
breast cancer, chronic mylogenous leukemia CML, ovarian cancer, endometrial
cancer, sarcoma, SCCHN (squamous cell carcinomaterm of the head and neck), and
thyroid cancer.
[00721           The PI3K/Akt signaling pathway described herein includes any
members or components that directly or indirectly participate in the signal
transduction cascade. These include, but are not limited to, P13 kinase, Akt, mTOR,
PDKI, RAPTOR (regulatory associated protein if mTOR), TSC1 (tuberous sclerosis
complex 1), TSC2, PTEN (phosphatase and tenesin homolog), and downstream
effectors such as Bax, bcl-2, MDM2, p53, XIAP,S6,GSK-3,IKKs, cyclin D, HIFI,
HIF2. Glutl, LATI, and c-Myc. Components of the P13/Akt signaling pathway may
also include RHEB, Rictor, S6K, 4EBPI, cAMP, cAMPK, GPL, IRS, PIP2, PIP3,
Rho, Ras, Abl, PKC, eIF4E, PDGFR, VEGFR, and VHL. The agent that affects (such
as inhibits) the P13K/Akt signaling pathway can thus act through modulation of any
one or more of these components.
[00731          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that inhibits P13 kinase (PI3K). Suitable inhibitors of P13K
include, but are not limited to, wortmannin and the derivatives or analogs thereof;
celecoxib and analogs thereof, such as OSU-03012 and OSU-03013; 3-deoxy-D-myo
inositol analogs, such as PX-3 16; 2 '-substituted 3'-deoxy-phosphatidyl-myo-inositol
analogs; fused heteroaryl derivatives; 3-(imidazo[1,2-a]pyridin-3-yl) derivatives;
Ly294002; quinazoline-4-one derivatives, such as IC486068; 3-(hetero)aryloxy
substituted benzo(b)thiophene derivatives; viridins, including semi-synthetic viridins
such as such as PX-866 (acetic acid (IS, 4E, 10R, 1 IR, 13S, 14R)-[4-dially
laminomethylene-6-hydroxy- 1-methoxymethyl- 10,13 -dimethy 1-3,7,17-trioxo
1,3,4,7,10, 11,12,13,14,15,16,17-dodecahydro-2-oxa-cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-11-yl
ester); and wortmannin and derivatives thereof.
[00741          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
                                             10

individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that inhibits Akt kinase (such as Aktl, Akt2, and/or Akt3). In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease
(such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and
a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective amount of and agent that
inhibits (1) recruitment of Akt to the cell membrane; (2) activation by PDK1 or
PDK2, (3) substrate phosphorylation; and/or (4) one of the downstream target of Akt.
100751           In some embodiments, the other agent inhibits phosphorylation of
S473 of the human Akt kinase, but not T308. In some embodiments, the second
compound inhibits phosphorylation of T308 of the human Akt kinase, but not S473.
In some embodiments, the other agent inhibits phorphorylation of both S473 and
T308 of the Akt kinase. In some embodiments, the other agent interferes with the
membrane localization of the Akt kinase. Suitable inhibitors of Akt kinase include,
but are not limited to, Akt-1-1 (inhibits Aktl), Akt-1-1.2 (inhibits Aktl and 2), API
59CJ-Ome, l-H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridinyl compounds. indole-3-carbinol and
derivatives thereof, perifosine, phosphatidylinositol ether lipid analogues, triciribine
(TCN or API-2 or NCI identifier: NSC 154020).
[0076]          In some embodiments, the other agent is perifosine. Thus, for
example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative
disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual:
a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane
and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective amount of perifosine. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease
(such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane*); and b) an effective amount of
perifosine. In some embodiments, the taxane is in an amount that is effective to
suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of Akt. In some embodiments, the
proliferative disease is cancer selected from the group consisting of breast cancer,
lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer), renal
cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer,
colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple myeloma.
                                            1 ()

 10077]         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of perifosine, wherein the nanoparticle composition is administered
intravenously, wherein the perifosine is administered orally. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an
individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin
(such as Abraxane*); and b) an effective amount of perifosine. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the perifosine are administered
concurrently. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is selected from the
group consisting of breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and
non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer,
melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple
myeloma.
 [0078]         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as albumin),
wherein the taxane is in the dosage range of about 60-300 mg/m 2; and b) about 10
500 mg/day (including for example about 20-100, such as 50 mg/day) or about 1-150
ing/kg/day perifosine. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane* ), wherein the
taxane is in the dosage range of about 60-300 mg/m 2 ; and b) about 10-500 mg/day
(including for example about 20-100, such as 50 mg/day) or about 1-150 mg/kg/day
perifosine. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered
intravenously. In some embodiments, the perifosine is administered orally. In some
embodiments, the administrations of the drugs are concurrent. breast cancer, lung
cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer,
bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal
cancer, leukemia, and multiple myeloma.

 10079]          The methods described herein include methods of administering
perifosine. In some embodiments, the method comprises administering two or more
compositions selected from a nanoparticle composition comprising a taxane and a
carrier protein, perifosine, and an agent other than perifosine. Thus, the present
application in some embodiments provides methods of treating a proliferative disease
(such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual a) an
effective amount of perifosine, and b) an effective amount of an agent other than
perifosine.
 [0080]          The agent other than perifosine in some embodiment can be an
antimetabolite, antimetabolite agent (such as a nucleoside analog, including for
example purine analogs and pyrimidine analogs). An "antimetabolic agent" is an
agent which is structurally similar to a metabolite, but cannot be used by the body in a
productive manner. Many antimetabolite agents interfere with production of nucleic
acids, RNA and DNA. For example, the antimetabolite can be a nucleoside analog,
which includes, but is not limited to, azacitidine, azathioprine, capecitabine
(Xeloda*), cytarabine, cladribine, cytosine arabinoside (ara-C, cytosar), doxifluridine,
fluorouracil (such as 5-fluorouracil), UFT, hydoxyurea, gemcitabine, mercaptopurine.,
methotrexate, thioguanine (such as 6-thioguanine). Other anti-metabolites include,
for example, L-asparaginase (Elspa), decarbazine (DTIC), 2-deoxy-D-glucose. and
procarbazine (matulane). In some embodiments, the nucleoside analog is any of (and
in some embodiments selected from the group consisting of) gemcitabine,
fluorouracil, and capecitabine. In some embodiments, the method is for treatment of
metastatic breast cancer or locally advanced breast cancer. In some embodiments, the
method is for first line treatment of metastatic breast cancer. In some embodiments,
the method is for treatment of breast cancer in a neoadjuvant setting. In some
embodiments, the method is for treatment of any of NSCLC, colorectal cancer,
pancreatic cancer, multiple myeloma, or advanced solid tumor.
 [0081]         In some embodiments, the agent other than perifosine is selected from
the group consisting of capecitabine, bortezomib, and imatinib.
 [00821          Thus, for example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating colorectal cancer (such as colon cancer), comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of perifosine. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating

colorectal cancer, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount
of perifosine; and b) an effective amount of an antimetabolite (such as capecitabine).
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating colorectal cancer,
comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin);
b) an effective amount of perifosine, and c) an effective amount of an antimetabolite
(such as capecitabine).    In some embodiments, the method comprises administering
about 500-2000 mg/m 2 capecitabine. Randomized phase II study of perifosine in
combination with capecitabine versus capecitabine alone in patients with second or
third-line metastatic colon cancer showed that perifosine in combination with
capecitabine more than doubled median time to progression over capecitabine alone
in patients with advanced, metastatic colon cancer. Vukelja S et al., J Clin Oncol
27:15s, 2009 (suppl; abstract 4081) (2009 ASCO Annual Meeting).
 100831         Other combinations involving perifosine are also contemplated. For
example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating myeloma,
comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of perifosine, and
b) an effective amount of a proteasome inhibitor (such as bortezomib). In some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating myeloma, comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); b) an
effective amount of perifosine, and c) an effective amount of bortezomib.
 [00841         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating
gastrointestinal stromal tumor, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of perifosine, and b) an effective amount of a tyrosine kinase
inhibitor (such as imatinib). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating gastrointestinal stromal tumor, comprising administering to the individual: a)
an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane
and a carrier protein (such as albumin); b) an effective amount of perifosine, and c) an
effective amount of imatinib. In some embodiments, the gastrointestinal stromal
tumor is resistant to the treatment with imatinib alone. Phase II study of perifosine
plus imatinib for patients with imatinib-resistant gastrointestinal stromal tumor shows
that the additional of perifosine to imatinib has minimal activity in imatinib-refractory
gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Conley AP et al., J Clin Oncol 27:15s, 2009 (suppl;
abstract 10563) (2009 ASCO Annual Meeting).

 10085]          Also encompassed herein are methods of treating renal cell carcinoma
in an individual by administering to the individual an effective amount of perifosine.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating renal cell carcinoma,
comprising administering to the individual an effective amount of perifosine. Phase II
studies of perifosine in metastatic or advanced renal cell carcinoma progressing after
prior therapy with a VEGF receptor inhibitor shows clinical benefits. Vogelzang NJ
et al., J Clin Oncol 27:15s, 2009 supply; abstract 5034) (2009 ASCO Annual
Meeting); Cho DC et al., J Clin Oncol 27:15s. 2009 (suppl; abstract 5101) (2009
ASCO Annual Meeting). In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
treating renal cell carcinoma, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and
a carrier protein (such as albumin); b) an effective amount of perifosine.
 10086]         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of erlotinib. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane*); and b) an
effective amount of erlotinib. In some embodiments,. the nanoparticle composition
and the erlotinib are administered concurrently. In some embodiments, the
proliferative disease is cancer selected from the group consisting of breast cancer,
lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer), renal
cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer,
colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple myeloma.
 [0087]         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an inhibitor of PDK1.
 10088]         In some emodiments,. there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles

comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) and b) an effective amount of
at least one other agent that inhibits cyclin Dl (such as cycline DI overexpression).
In some embodiments, the cancer is any of mantle cell lymphoma and breast cancer.
[00891           In some emodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (e.g., albumin) and b) an effective amount of
at least one other agent that inhibits Myc over expression. In some embodiments, the
cancer is burkitt lymphoma.
100901           In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that inhibits HIF. In some embodiments, the HIF is HIF . In some
embodiments, the HIF is HIF2. In some embodiments, the other agent inhibits HIF
mediated angiogenesis. In some embodiments, the other agent inhibitors HIF
overexpression. In some embodiments, the cancer is RCC and/or Von Hippel-Lindau
(VHL).
[00911           Other PI3K/Akt signaling pathway inhibitors that can be used in the
methods described herein include, but are not limited to, e.g., FTY720 and UCN-01.
[00921           In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that affects (such as inhibits) the Mitogen-Activated Protein
Kinase (MAP kinase) signaling pathway. The MAP kinase signaling pathway
described herein include any members or components that directly or indirectly
participate in the signal transduction cascade. These include, but are not limited to,
MAP kinases such as Erkl, Erk2, p38 MAPK, SAPK, JNK, Erk5, BMKl; MAP
kinase kinases such as MEKI, MEK2, MKK3, MKK6, MKK4, MKK7, MEK5; and
MAP kinase kinase kinase such as Raf, Mos, Tpl2, MLK3, TAK, DLK, MEKK1,
MEKK4, MLK3, ASKI, MEKK2, and MEKK3. The agent that affects (such as
inhibits) the MAP kinase pathway can thus act through modulation of any one or
more of these components. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of

treating cancer in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and
a carrier protein (such as albumin), and b) an effective amount of a compound that
affects the MAPK pathway (e.g., sorafenib (BAY49-9006). In some embodiments,
the method further comprises administering an effective amount of a tyrosine kinase
inhibitor (e.g., geftinib or erlotinib). In some embodiments, the proliferative disease
is non-small cell lung carcinoma. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is
brain cancer (e.g., glioblastoma).
 [0093]          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that affects (such as inhibits) the bcl-2 signaling pathway. In
some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease
(such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel
coated with albumin (such as Abraxane*); and b) an effective amount of an agent that
affects (such as inhibits) the bcl-2 signaling pathway. The bcl-2 signaling pathway
described herein includes any members or components that directly or indirectly
participate in the signal transduction cascade. These include, but are not limited to,
JNK, Hrk. Bim, Bax, Noxa, and Puma. The agent that affects (such as inhibits) the
bcl-2 signaling pathway can thus act through modulation of any one or more of these
components.
 [0094]          Thus, for example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an
effective amount of an agent that inhibits bcl-2. In some embodiments, there is
provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual,
comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as
Abraxane*); and b) an effective amount of an agent that inhibits bcl-2. In some
embodiments, the other agent is a small molecule compound that inhibits the activity
of bcl-2. In some embodiments, the small molecule compound is ABT-263, HA 14-1,

Obatoclax, and ABT-737. In some embodiments, the agent is in an amount effective
to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of bcl-2 in vivo.
 [00951         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and
b) an effective amount of a small molecule inhibitor of bcl-2. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an
individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin
(such as Abraxane'); and b) an effective amount of a small molecule inhibitor of bel
2. In some embodiments, the small molecule is in an amount effective to suppress
taxane-mediated upregulation of bcl-2 in vivo. In some embodiments, the bcl-2
inhibitor is administered orally. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition
and the bcl-2 inhibitor are administered concurrently. In some embodiments, the
proliferative disease is cancer selected from the group consisting of breast cancer,
lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer), renal
cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer,
colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple myeloma.
 [0096]         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as albumin),
wherein the taxane is in the dosage range of about 60-300 mg/m 2; and b) about 10
500 mg/day (including for example about 20-100, such as about 50 mg/day) of a
small molecule inhibitor of bcl-2. In some embodiments, there is provided a method
of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as Abraxane*),
wherein the taxane is in the dosage range of about 60-300 mg/m 2; and b) about 10
500 mg/day (including for example about 20-100, such as about 50 mg/day) of a
small molecule inhibitor of bcl-2. In some embodiments, the nanoparticle
composition is administered intravenously. In some embodiments, the small molecule
is in an amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of bcl-2 in vivo.

In some embodiments, the bcl-2 inhibitor is administered orally. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the bcl-2 inhibitor are administered
concurrently. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is cancer selected from
the group consisting of breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and
non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer,
melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple
myeloma.
 [00971         In some embodiments, the inhibitor of bcl-2 is an antisense
oligonucleotide that inhibits the expression of bcl-2. In some embodiments, the
antisense oligonucleotide is an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide. In some
embodiments, the antisense oligonucleotide is an antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotide.
In some embodiments, the other agent is oblimersen. For example, in some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as
cancer, for example melanoma, e.g., advanced melanoma) in an individual comprising
administering to the individual a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel and an albumin (such as Abraxane*), and b) an
antisense oligonucleotide that inhibits the expression of bcl-2. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer, for
example melanoma, e.g., advanced melanoma) in an individual comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane*), and
b) oblimersen.
 [00981         In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering to
the individual an alkylating agent, such as temozolomide. Thus, for example, in some
embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease (such as
cancer, for example melanoma, e.g., advanced melanoma) in an individual comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane*), b)
an antisense oligonucleotide that inhibits the expression of bcl-2 (such as oblimersen),
and c) an alkylating agent (such as temozolomide). In some embodiments,. there is
provided a method of treating melanoma (such as advanced melanoma) in an
individual comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as Abraxane*), b) an
                                            -)'7

effective amount of oblimersen, and c) an effective amount of temozolomide. In
some embodiments, the individual has normal LDH.
 [00991         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that inhibits bcl-xL. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual,
comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as
Abraxane*); and b) an effective amount of an agent that inhibits bcl-xL. In some
embodiments, the other agent is a small molecule compound that inhibits the activity
of bcl-xL. In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of both bcl-2 and bcl
xL. In some embodiments, the other agent is in an amount effective to suppress
taxane-mediated upregulation of bcl-2 in vivo. In some embodiments, the other agent
is in an amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of both bcl-2 and
bcl-xL in vivo. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered orally. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are administered
concurrently. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is cancer selected from
the group consisting of breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and
non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer,
melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple
inyeloma.
 [00100]        In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of bcl-w.
 [01001         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that affects (such as inhibits) the TNF--a signaling pathway. The
TNF-a signaling pathway described herein include any members or components that
directly or indirectly participate in the signal transduction cascade. These include, but
are not limited to, DAPK, FADD, TRADD, RIP, F2, RAIDD, IKKs, NF-xB, and IcB.
The agent that affects (such as inhibits) the TNF-a signaling pathway can thus act
through modulation of any one or more of these components.

10101]          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that affects (such as inhibits) the NF-KB signaling pathway. The
NF-KB signaling pathway described herein include any members or components that
directly or indirectly participate in the signal transduction cascade. These include, but
are not limited to, PKC(, GSKP, MSK1, IKKs. NAK, RSKl, NAPI, PKAc, CKII,
TAK, RIP, as well as components involved in the TNF-a signaling pathway as
described above. The agent that affects (such as inhibits) the NF-KB signaling
pathway can thus act through modulation of any one or more of these components.
[01021          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that affects (such as inhibits) the IL-6 signaling pathway. The IL
6 signaling pathway described herein include any members or components that
directly or indirectly participate in the signal transduction cascade. These include, but
are not limited to, Gp130, Jak, Stat3, Stat, SHP2, SOCS3, Grb2, She, Ras, Raf, MEK,
Erk, P13K, Akt, mTOR (TORCI, TORC2), IKKs, IKB, and NF-KB. The agent that
affects (such as inhibits) the IL-6 signaling pathway can thus act through modulation
of any one or more of these components.
[01031          In some embodiments., there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin); and b) an effective
amount of an agent that affects (such as inhibits) the IL-8 signaling pathway. The IL
8 signaling pathway described herein include any members or components that
directly or indirectly participate in the signal transduction cascade. The agent that
affects (such as inhibits) the IL-8 signaling pathway can thus act through modulation
of any one or more of these components.
10104]          In some embodiments, the methods further comprise administration of
one or more additional agent. In some embodiments, the additional agent is another
agent that inhibits a prosurvival or proinflammatory signal, such as the agents

described herein. In some embodiments, the additional agent is a chemotherapeutic
agent, such as chemotherapeutic agents described in U.S. Patent Application No.
2006/0263434, incorporated herein in its entirety. In some embodiments, the
additional agent is any one of dexamethasone, bortezomib, imatinib, sorafenib,
gemcitabine. capecitabine, lenalidomide, sunitinib, paclitaxel, and docetaxel. For
example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative
disease, comprising: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as
albumin), b) an effective amount of perifosine, and c) an effective amount of an
additional agent selected from the group consisting of dexamethasone, bortezomib,
imatinib, sorafenib, gemcitabine, capecitabine, lenalidomide, sunitinib, paclitaxel, and
docetaxel. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative
disease, comprising: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as
albumin), b) an effective amount of perifosine, and c) an effective amount of
capecitabine. in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease., comprising: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as
albumin), b) an effective amount of perifosine, and c) an effective amount of erlotinib.
In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a proliferative disease,
comprising: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as albumin), b) an
effective amount of a bcl-2 inhibitor, and c) an effective amount of an additional
agent selected from the group consisting of dexamethasone, bortezomib, imatinib,
sorafenib, gemcitabine, capecitabine, lenalidomide, sunitinib, paclitaxel, and
docetaxel. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease, comprising: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as
albumin), b) an effective amount of a bcl-xL inhibitor and c) an effective amount of
an additional agent selected from the group consisting of dexamethasone, bortezomib,
imatinib, sorafenib, gemcitabine, capecitabine, lenalidomide, sunitinib, paclitaxel, and
docetaxel. in some embodiments, there is provided a method of treating a
proliferative disease, comprising: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane (such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as

albumin), b) an effective amount of perifosine, and c) an effective amount of
perifosine or erlotinib.
[01051           The present application also provides pharmaceutical compositions
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin)
for use in the treatment of a proliferative disease (such as cancer), wherein said use
comprises simultaneous, sequential, and/or concurrent administration of an agent that
inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some embodiments, the
invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising an agent that inhibits a
prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal for use in the treatment of a proliferative
disease (such as cancer), wherein said use comprises simultaneous, sequential, and/or
concurrent administration of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin). In some embodiments, the invention
provides taxane-containing nanoparticle compositions and compositions comprising
an agent that inhibits prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal for simultaneous,
sequential, and/or concurrent use for treatment of a proliferative disease (such as
cancer).
Methods of treating proliferative diseases
[01061           The combination therapy methods described herein are useful for
treating proliferative diseases. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
inhibiting cell proliferation (such as tumor growth) in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of at
least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some
embodiments, the effective amounts of the taxane nanoparticle composition and the
other agent synergistically inhibit cell proliferation (such as tumor cell growth). In
some embodiments, at least about 10% (including for example at least about any of
20%, 30%, 40%, 60%, 70%. 80%, 90%, or 100%) cell proliferation is inhibited. In
some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the other agent is
an inhibitor of Akt (such as perifosine and erlotinib). In some embodiments, the other
agent is an inhibitor of bcl-2, bcl-xL, or both. In some embodiments, the taxane in the
nanoparticle in the composition is administered by intravenous administration. In
some embodiments, the other agent is administered by intraperitoneal administration.
In some embodiments, the other agent is administered by oral administration.
                                             '11

 10107]          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of inhibiting tumor
metastasis (such as metastasis of breast cancer, pulmonary metastasis or metastasis to
the lymph node) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane and a
carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a
prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some embodiments, the effective amounts
of the taxane nanoparticle composition and the other agent synergistically inhibit
tumor metastasis. In some embodiments, at least about 10% (including for example at
least about any of 20%, 30%, 40%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or 100%) metastasis is
inhibited. In some embodiments, method of inhibiting metastasis to lymph node is
provided. In some embodiments, method of inhibiting metastasis to the lung is
provided. In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the
other agent is an inhibitor of Akt (such as perifosine and erlotinib). In some
embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of bcl- 2 , bcl-xL, or both. In some
embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle in the composition is administered by
intravenous administration. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered by
intraperitoneal administration. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered
by oral administration.
 [01081          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of reducing (such as
eradiating) pre-existing tumor metastasis (such as pulmonary metastasis or metastasis
to the lymph node) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane and a
carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a
prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some embodiments, the effective amounts
of the taxane nanoparticle composition and the other agent synergistically reduces
(such as eradicates) tumor metastasis. In some embodiments., at least about 10%
(including for example at least about any of 20%, 30%, 40%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
or 100%) metastasis is reduced. In some embodiments, method of reducing
metastasis to lymph node is provided. In some embodiments, method of reducing
metastasis to the lung is provided. In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In
some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of Akt (such as perifosine and
erlotinib). In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of bcl-2, bcl-xL, or
both. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle in the composition is
administered by intravenous administration. In some embodiments, the other agent is

administered by intraperitoneal administration. In some embodiments, the other agent
is administered by oral administration.
 [01091         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of reducing
incidence or burden of preexisting tumor metastasis (such as pulmonary metastasis or
metastasis to the lymph node) in an individual, comprising administering to the
individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of at least one
other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some
embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the other agent is an
inhibitor of Akt (such as perifosine and erlotinib). In some embodiments, the other
agent is an inhibitor of bcl-2, bcl-xL, or both. In some embodiments, the taxane in the
nanoparticle in the composition is administered by intravenous administration. In
some embodiments, the other agent is administered by intraperitoneal administration.
In some embodiments, the other agent is administered by oral administration.
 [01101         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of reducing tumor
size in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective
amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane and a carrier
protein, and b) an effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a
prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some embodiments, the effective amounts
of the taxane nanoparticle composition and the other agent synergistically reduces
tumor size. In some embodiments, the tumor size is reduced at least about 10%
(including for example at least about any of 20%, 30%, 40%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
or 100%). In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the
other agent is an inhibitor of Akt (such as perifosine and erlotinib). In some
embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of bcl-2, bcl-xL, or both. In some
embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle in the composition is administered by
intravenous administration. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered by
intraperitoneal administration. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered
by oral administration.
 [01111         In some embodiments, there is provided a method of prolonging time
to disease progression of a proliferative disease (such as cancer) in an individual,
comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective
amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory

signal. In some embodiments, the method prolongs the time to disease progression by
at least any of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 weeks. In some embodiments, the
taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of Akt (such
as perifosine and erlotinib). In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of
bcl-2, bcl-xL. or both. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle in the
composition is administered by intravenous administration. In some embodiments, the
other agent is administered by intraperitoneal administration. In some embodiments,
the other agent is administered by oral administration.
 [0112]          In some embodiments, there is provided a method of prolonging
survival of an individual having a proliferative disease (such as cancer), comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of at
least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some
embodiments, the method prolongs the survival of the individual by at least any of 1,
2 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 18, or 24 month. In some embodiments, the taxane is
paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of Akt (such as
perifosine and erlotinib). In some embodiments, the other agent is an inhibitor of bcl
2, bcl-xL, or both. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle in the
composition is administered by intravenous administration. In some embodiments, the
other agent is administered by intraperitoneal administration. In some embodiments,
the other agent is administered by oral administration.
 [01131          It is understood that any of the embodiments in this section apply to
the embodiments provided in the section "methods of combination therapy." For
example, in some embodiments, there is provided a method of reducing (such as
eradiating) pre-existing tumor metastasis (such as pulmonary metastasis or metastasis
to the lymph node) in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an
effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane and a
carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of a perifosine, wherein the nanoparticle
composition and the perifosine are administered concurrently. In some embodiments,
there is provided a method of reducing (such as eradiating) pre-existing tumor
metastasis (such as pulmonary metastasis or metastasis to the lymph node) in an
individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of
nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as Abraxane*), and b)
an effective amount of a perifosine, wherein the nanoparticle composition and the

perifosine are administered concurrently. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of reducing (such as eradiating) pre-existing tumor metastasis (such as
pulmonary metastasis or metastasis to the lymph node) in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of a
bcl-2 inhibitor, wherein the nanoparticle composition and the bcl-2 inhibitor are
administered concurrently. In some embodiments, there is provided a method of
reducing (such as eradiating) pre-existing tumor metastasis (such as pulmonary
metastasis or metastasis to the lymph node) in an individual, comprising
administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel coated with albumin (such as Abraxane*), and b) an effective amount of a
bcl-2 inhibitor, wherein the nanoparticle composition and the bcl-2 are administered
concurrently.
101141          The methods described herein are useful for treating various diseases,
including for example, breast cancer, lung cancer (such as small cell lung cancer and
non-small cell lung cancer), renal cancer, bladder cancer, pancreatic cancer,
melanoma, prostate cancer, brain cancer, colorectal cancer, leukemia, and multiple
myeloma.
Modes of administration
[01151          The composition comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane (also
referred to as "nanoparticle composition") and the other agent can be administered
simultaneously (i.e., simultaneous administration) and/or sequentially (i.e., sequential
administration).
[01161          In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the other
agent (including the specific agents described herein) are administered
simultaneously. The term "simultaneous administration," as used herein, means that
the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are administered with a time
separation of no more than about 15 minute(s), such as no more than about any of 10,
5, or 1 minutes. When the drugs are administered simultaneously, the drug in the
nanoparticles and the other agent may be contained in the same composition (e.g., a
composition comprising both the nanoparticles and the other agent) or in separate
compositions (e.g., the nanoparticles are contained in one composition and the other
agent is contained in another composition).

 10117]            In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition and the other
agent are administered sequentially. The term "sequential administration" as used
herein means that the drug in the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are
administered with a time separation of more than about 15 minutes, such as more than
about any of 20. 30, 40, 50, 60 or more minutes. Either the nanoparticle composition
or the other agent may be administered first. The nanoparticle composition and the
other agent are contained in separate compositions, which may be contained in the
same or different packages.
 [0118]            In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle
composition and the other agent are concurrent, i.e., the administration period of the
nanoparticle composition and that of the other agent overlap with each other. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is administered for at least one cycle (for
example, at least any of 2, 3, or 4 cycles) prior to the administration of the other
agent. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered for at least any of one,
two, three, or four weeks. In some embodiments, the administrations of the
nanoparticle composition and the other agent are initiated at about the same time (for
example, within any one of 1, 2, 3, 4. 5, 6, or 7 days). In some embodiments, the
administrations of the nanoparticle composition and the other agent are terminated at
about the same time (for example, within any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days). In
some embodiments, the administration of the other agent continues (for example for
about any one of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) after the termination of
the administration of the nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the
administration of the other agent is initiated after (for example after about any one of
 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or we months) the initiation of the administration of the
nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the administrations of the
nanoparticle composition and the other agent are initiated and terminated at about the
same time. In some embodiments, the administrations of the nanoparticle
composition and the other agent are initiated at about the same time and the
administration of the other agent continues (for example for about any one of 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months) after the termination of the administration of the
nanoparticle composition. In some embodiments, the administration of the
nanoparticle composition and the other agent stop at about the same time and the
administration of the other agent is initiated after (for example after about any one of

 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or we months) the initiation of the administration of the
 nanoparticle composition.
 [01191            In some embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle
 composition and the other agent are non-concurrent. For example, in some
 embodiments, the administration of the nanoparticle composition is terminated before
 the other agent is administered. In some embodiments, the administration of the other
 agent is terminated before the nanoparticle composition is administered. The time
 period between these two non-concurrent administrations can range from about two to
 eight weeks, such as about four weeks.
 101201            The dosing frequency of the drug-containing nanoparticle composition
 and the other agent may be adjusted over the course of the treatment, based on the
judgment of the administering physician. When administered separately, the drug
 containing nanoparticle composition and the other agent can be administered at
 different dosing frequency or intervals. For example, the drug-containing
 nanoparticle composition can be administered weekly, while a other agent can be
 administered more or less frequently. In some embodiments, sustained continuous
 release formulation of the drug-containing nanoparticle and/or other agent may be
 used. Various formulations and devices for achieving sustained release are known in
 the art. Exemplary dosing frequencies are further provided herein.
 [0121]            The nanoparticle composition and the other agent can be administered
 using the same route of administration or different routes of administration.
 Exemplary administration routes are further provided herein. In some embodiments
 (for both simultaneous and sequential administrations), the taxane in the nanoparticle
 composition and the other agent are administered at a predetermined ratio. For
 example, in some embodiments, the ratio by weight of the taxane in the nanoparticle
 composition and the other agent is about 1 to 1. In some embodiments, the weight
 ratio may be between about 0.001 to about I and about 1000 to about 1, or between
 about 0.01 to about 1 and 100 to about 1. In some embodiments, the ratio by weight
 of the taxane in the nanoparticle composition and the other agent is less than about
 any of 100:1, 50:1, 30:1, 10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2:1, and 1:1 In some
 embodiments, the ratio by weight of the taxane in the nanoparticle composition and
 the other agent is more than about any of 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1,
 30:1, 50:1, 100:1. Other ratios are contemplated.
                                               1 '7

 10122]         The methods described herein comprise administration of taxane and
the other agent in effective amounts. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of treating a proliferative disease (such as cancer, for example breast cancer)
in an individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of
a composition comprising taxane. and b) an effective amount of an the other agent
(such as an Akt inhibitor, for example perifosine), wherein the other agent is an
amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of the prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal (such as Akt) in vivo. In some embodiments, there is provided a
method of inhibiting tumor metastasis (such as breast cancer metastasis) in an
individual, comprising administering to the individual: a) an effective amount of a
composition comprising taxane, and b) an effective amount of an the other agent
(such as an Akt inhibitor, for example perifosine), wherein the other agent is an
amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation of the prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal (such as Akt) in vivo. In some embodiments, the taxane-mediated
upregulation of the prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal in vivo is taxane-mediated
upregulation of Akt. In some embodiments, the taxane-mediated upregulation of the
prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal in vivo is taxane-mediated upregulation of any
of bcl-2, bcl-xL, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, as well as phosphorylated NF-iB p65, p50, and
p42/44 kinase. In some embodiments, the amount of the other agent is effective to
abrogate or reduce stress response elicited by taxane. In some embodiments, the
taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiments, the taxane is docetaxel. In some
embodiments, the composition comprising a taxane is a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein. In some embodiments, the
nanoparticles comprising a taxane are nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel. In some
embodiments, the nanoparticles comprising a taxane are nanoparticles comprising
docetaxel.
 [0123]         The term "amount effective to suppress taxane-mediated upregulation"
of a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal, as used herein, refers to and includes
both complete (including substantially complete) and/or partial suppression. Methods
indicating such suppression are known in the art and described herein, although it is
understood that when administering to an individual patient based on established
medical practice on the basis of clinical trials, such measurements need not be given
in an individual. In some embodiments, the term "amount effective to suppress
taxane-mediated upregulation of Akt," as used herein, refers to substantially complete

prevention of Akt expression and/or activity or reduction in the amount of Akt
expression and/or activity in cells, tissues or fluids in vivo upon administration of a
formulation containing a taxane. In some embodiments, the reduction in the amount
Akt expression and/or activity in cells, tissues or fluids in vivo upon administration of
a formulation containing a taxane is by at least about any of 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%,
50%, 60%, 70%, 80%. 90%, 95%, or 100%. In some embodiments, the suppression of
taxane induction can be observed qualitatively and/or quantitatively by methods
known in the art and described herein.
 [0124]          The doses required for the taxane and/or the other agent may (but not
necessarily) be lower than what is normally required when each agent is administered
alone. Thus, in some embodiments, a subtherapeutic amount of the drug in the
nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent are administered. "Subtherapeutic
amount" or "subtherapeutic level" refer to an amount that is less than therapeutic
amount, that is, less than the amount normally used when the drug in the nanoparticle
composition and/or the other agent are administered alone. The reduction may be
reflected in tens of the amount administered at a given administration and/or the
amount administered over a given period of time (reduced frequency).
 [01251          In some embodiments, enough other agent is administered so as to
allow reduction of the normal dose of the drug in the nanoparticle composition
required to effect the same degree of treatment by at least about any of 5%, 10%,
20%, 30%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or more. In some embodiments, enough drug
in the nanoparticle composition is administered so as to allow reduction of the normal
dose of the other agent required to effect the same degree of treatment by at least
about any of 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or more.
 [01261          In some embodiments, the dose of both the taxane in the nanoparticle
composition and the other agent are reduced as compared to the corresponding normal
dose of each when administered alone. In some embodiments, both the taxane in the
nanoparticle composition and the other agent are administered at a subtherapeutic,
i.e., reduced, level. In some embodiments, the dose of the nanoparticle composition
and/or the other agent is substantially less than the established maximum toxic dose
(MTD). For example, the dose of the nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent
is less than about 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, or 10% of the MTD.
 [01271          In some embodiments, the dose of taxane and/or the dose of the other
agent is higher than what is normally required when each agent is administered alone.

For example, in some embodiments, the dose of the nanoparticle composition and/or
the other agent is substantially higher than the established maximum toxic dose
(MTD). For example, the dose of the nanoparticle composition and/or the other agent
is more than about 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, or 10% of the MTD of the agent when
administered alone.
10128]          In some embodiments, the amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the
composition is included in any of the following ranges: about 0.5 to about 5 mg, about
5 to about 10 mg, about 10 to about 15 mg, about 15 to about 20 mg, about 20 to
about 25 mg, about 20 to about 50 mg, about 25 to about 50 mg, about 50 to about 75
mg, about 50 to about 100 mg. about 75 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about 125 mg,
about 125 to about 150 mg, about 150 to about 175 mg, about 175 to about 200 mg,
about 200 to about 225 mg, about 225 to about 250 mg, about 250 to about 300 mg,
about 300 to about 350 mg, about 350 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about 450 mg, or
about 450 to about 500 mg. In some embodiments, the amount of a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) or derivative thereof in the effective amount of the composition (e.g., a
unit dosage form) is in the range of about 5 mg to about 500 mg, such as about 30 mg
to about 300 mg or about 50 mg to about 200 mg. In some embodiments, the
concentration of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is dilute (about 0.1
mg/ml) or concentrated (about 100 mg/ml), including for example any of about 0.1 to
about 50 mg/ml, about 0.1 to about 20 mg/ml, about I to about 10 mg/ml, about 2
mg/ml to about 8 mg/ml, about 4 to about 6 mg/ml, about 5 mg/ml. In some
embodiments, the concentration of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is at least about any of
0.5 mg/ml, 1.3 mg/ml, 1.5 mg/ml. 2 mg/ml, 3 mg/ml, 4 mg/ml, 5 mg/ml, 6 mg/ml, 7
mg/ml, 8 mg/mi, 9 mg/ml, 10 mg/ml, 15 mg/ml, 20 mg/ml, 25 mg/ml, 30 mg/ml, 40
mg/ml, or 50 mg/ml.
[01291          Exemplary effective amounts of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the
nanoparticle composition include, but are not limited to, at least about any of 25
mg/m 2 , 30 mg/m2 , 50 mg/in 2 , 60 mg/m2, 75 mg/m 2. 80 mg/m 2 , 90 mg/m 2. 100 mg/n 2,
120 mg/m 2, 125 mg/m 2, 150 mg/m 2, 160 mg/m 2, 175 mg/m2 , 180 mg/m 2, 200 mg/m 2,
210 mg/m 2 , 220 mg/m 2, 250 mg/m 2 , 260 mg/in 2 , 300 mg/m 2, 350 mg/m 2 , 400 ng/m2,
500 mg/m 2, 540 mg/m 2, 750 mg/m 2, 1000 mg/m 2, or 1080 mg/m 2 of a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel). In various embodiments, the composition includes less than about any of
350 mg/m2. 300 mg/m 2, 250 mg/m 2, 200 mg/m 2 , 150 mg/m2 , 120 mg/        2
                                                                             , 100 mg/m 2,
90 mg/in 2 , 50 mg/m2 , or 30 mg/m2 of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel). In some
                                             An

embodiments, the amount of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) per administration is less
than about any of 25 mg/m2 , 22 mg/m 2, 20 mg/m 2, 18 mg/m2 . 15 mg/m2 , 14 mg/m2,
13 mg/m 2 , 12 mg/m2, 11      mg/m 2 , 10 mg/m 2 , 9 mg/m 2 , 8 mg/m2 , 7 mg/m 2 , 6 mg/mn2 , 5
mg/rn 2 , 4 mg/m 2 , 3 mg/n 2 , 2 mg/m2 , or 1 mg/m 2 . In some embodiments, the effective
amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is included in any of the
following ranges: about 1 to about 5 mg/m 2 , about 5 to about 10 mg/m 2, about 10 to
about 25 mg/m 2, about 25 to about 50 mg/m 2, about 50 to about 75 mg/m 2, about 75
to about 100 mg/m 2, about 100 to about 125 mg/m 2, about 125 to about 150 mg/m2 ,
about 150 to about 175 mg/m 2 , about 175 to about 200 mg/m 2 , about 200 to about 225
mg/m 2 , about 225 to about 250 mg/m 2, about 250 to about 300 mg/m2 , about 300 to
about 350 mg/m 2, or about 350 to about 400 mg/m2 . In some embodiments, the
effective amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition is about 5 to about
300 mg/m2, such as about 20 to about 300 mg/m2 , about 50 to about 250 mg/m 2, about
100 to about 150 mg/r     2
                            , about 120 mg/n 2 , about 130 mg/m 2 , or about 140 mg/m2 , or
about 260 mg/m 2.
[0130]           In some embodiments of any of the above aspects, the effective
amount of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the composition includes at least about any of
1 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 3.5 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 6.5 mg/kg, 7.5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg,
or 20 mg/kg. In various embodiments, the effective amount of a taxane (e.g.,
paclitaxel) in the composition includes less than about any of 350 mg/kg, 300 mg/kg,
250 mg/kg, 200 mg/kg, 150 mg/kg, 100 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 10
mg/kg, 7.5 mg/kg, 6.5 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 3.5 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, or 1 mg/kg of a taxane
(e.g., paclitaxel).
[0131]           Exemplary dosing frequencies for the nanoparticle composition (and as
indicated below for the other agent) include, but are not limited to, weekly without
break; weekly, three out of four weeks; once every three weeks; once every two
weeks; weekly, two out of three weeks. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered about once every 2 weeks, once every 3 weeks, once every 4 weeks,
once every 6 weeks, or once every 8 weeks. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered at least about any of Ix, 2x, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, or 7x (i.e., daily) a week, or
three times daily, two times daily. In some embodiments, the intervals between each
administration are less than about any of 6 months, 3 months, 1 month, 20 days, 15
days, 12 days, 10 days, 9 days, 8 days, 7 days, 6 days, 5 days, 4 days, 3 days, 2 days,
or 1 day. In some embodiments, the intervals between each administration are more
                                               A11

than about any of 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, 6 months, 8
months, or 12 months. In some embodiments, there is no break in the dosing
schedule. In some embodiments, the interval between each administration is no more
than about a week.
 [0132]         In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticle composition is
administered weekly. In some embodiments, the taxane in a nanoparticle composition
is administered every two weeks. In some embodiments, the taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is administered every three weeks. In some embodiments,
the other agent is administered 1x, 2x, 3x, 4x, 5x, 6x, or 7 times a week. In some
embodiments, the other agent is administered every two weeks or two out of three
weeks. In some embodiments, the taxane is paclitaxel. In some embodiment, the
other agent is perifosine. In some embodiments of the above dosages and/or
administrations, the taxane is paclitaxel and the other agent is perifosine.
 101331         The administration of the nanoparticle composition (and for the other
agent) can be extended over an extended period of time, such as from about a month
up to about seven years. In some embodiments, the composition is administered over
a period of at least about any of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, 60,
72, or 84 months. In some embodiments, the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) is administered
over a period of at least one month. wherein the interval between each administration
is no more than about a week, and wherein the dose of the taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) at
each administration is about 0.25 mg/m 2 to about 75 mg/m 2. such as about 0.25
mg/m2 to about 25 mg/m 2 or about 25 mg/n 2 to about 50 mg/in 2 .
 [01341         In some embodiments, the dosage of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in a
nanoparticle composition can be in the range of 5-400 mg/m 2 when given on a 3 week
schedule, or 5-250 mg/m 2 when given on a weekly schedule. For example, the amount
of a taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) can be about 60 to about 300 mg/m 2 (e.g., about 260
mg/m 2 ) when given on a three week schedule.
 [0135]         Other exemplary dosing schedules for the administration of the
nanoparticle composition (e.g., paclitaxel/albumin nanoparticle composition) include,
but are not limited to, 100 mg/m2 , weekly, without break; 75 mg/m 2 weekly, 3 out of
four weeks; 100 mg/m2, weekly, 3 out of 4 weeks; 125 mg/m2 , weekly, 3 out of 4
weeks; 125 mg/n 2, weekly, 2 out of 3 weeks; 130 mg/m 2, weekly, without break; 175
mg/m2 , once every 2 weeks; 260 mg/m, once every 2 weeks; 260 mg/m2 , once every
3 weeks; 180-300 mg/m2 , every three weeks; 60-175 mg/m 2 , weekly, without break;
                                              AI

20-150 mg/m 2 , twice a week; and 150-250 mg/m2 twice a week. The dosing
frequency of the composition may be adjusted over the course of the treatment based
on the judgment of the administering physician.
 [01361         In some embodiments, the individual is treated for at least about any of
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten treatment cycles. The
compositions described herein allow infusion of the composition to an individual over
an infusion time that is shorter than about 24 hours. For example, in some
embodiments, the composition is administered over an infusion period of less than
about any of 24 hours, 12 hours, 8 hours, 5 hours, 3 hours, 2 hours, 1 hour, 30
minutes, 20 minutes, or 10 minutes. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered over an infusion period of about 30 minutes.
 [01371         Other exemplary dose of the taxane (in some embodiments paclitaxel)
in the nanoparticle composition include, but is not limited to, about any of 50 mg/m 2,
60 mg/m 2, 75 mg/m 2, 80 mg/m 2, 90 mg/m 2, 100 mg/m 2, 120 mg/m 2, 160 mg/m 2, 175
mg/m 2, 200 mg/m 2, 210 mg/m 2, 220 mg/m 2, 260 mg/m 2, and 300 mg/m 2. For
example, the dosage of paclitaxel in a nanoparticle composition can be in the range of
about 100-400 mg/m 2 when given on a 3 week schedule, or about 50-250 mg/m 2
when given on a weekly schedule.
 [01381         The dosing frequency of the other agent can be the same or different
from that of the nanoparticle composition. Exemplary frequencies are provided
above. As further example, the other agent can be administered three times a day, two
times a day, daily, 6 times a week, 5 times a week, 4 times a week, 3 times a week,
two times a week, weekly.. In some embodiments, the other agent is administered
twice daily or three times daily. Exemplary amounts of the other agent include, but
are not limited to, any of the following ranges: about 0.5 to about 5 mg, about 5 to
about 10 mg, about 10 to about 15 mg, about 15 to about 20 mg, about 20 to about 25
mg, about 20 to about 50 mg, about 25 to about 50 mg, about 50 to about 75 mg,
about 50 to about 100 mg, about 75 to about 100 mg, about 100 to about 125 mg,
about 125 to about 150 mg, about 150 to about 175 mg, about 175 to about 200 mg,
about 200 to about 225 mg, about 225 to about 250 mg, about 250 to about 300 mg,
about 300 to about 350 mg, about 350 to about 400 mg, about 400 to about 450 mg, or
about 450 to about 500 mg. For example, the other agent can be administered at a
dose of about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about 1 mg/kg to
about 20 mg/kg. about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60

mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about
 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140
mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). For example, in some embodiments, perifosine is
administered (for example by oral administration) at about 20-100 mg/kg (including
for example 30 mg/kg, 40 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, 60 mg/kg, 70 mg/kg, 80 mg/kg), three
times a week. In some embodiments, erlotinib is administered (for example by
intraperitoneal administration) at about 20-200 mg/kg/day (including for example 50
mg/kg/day, 80 mg/kg/day, 100 mg/kg/day, 120 mg/kg/day, 140 mg/kg/day, 180
mg/kg/day).
 101391         In some embodiments, the effective amount of taxane in the
nanoparticle composition is between about 45 mg/m 2 to about 350 mg/m2 and the
effective amount of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including
for example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg,
about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80
mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to
about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the
effective amount of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 80
mg/n 2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and the effective amount of the other agent is about 1
mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg,
about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60
mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to
about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about
200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the effective amount of taxane in the nanoparticle
composition is between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 300 mg/m 2 and the effective amount
of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about
 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to
about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100
mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg,
about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the effective amount of
taxane in the nanoparticle composition is between about 150 mg/m 2 to about 350
mg/m2 and the effective amount of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200
mg/kg (including for example about I mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to
about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80
mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg,
                                           AA

about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some
embodiments, the effective amount of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is
between about 80 mg/m 2 to about 150 mg/m 2 and the effective amount of the other
agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about 1 mg/kg to
about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60
mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about
100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140
mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the effective amount of taxane
(e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about 100 mg/m 2. In some
embodiments, the effective amount of taxane in the nanoparticle composition is
between about 170 mg/m 2 to about 200 mg/m 2 and the effective amount of the other
agent is about 1 ng/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including for example about 1 mg/kg to
about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, about 40 mg/kg to about 60
mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about
100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to about 140 mg/kg, about 140
mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the effective amount of taxane in
the nanoparticle composition is between about 200 mg/m 2 to about 350 mg/m 2 and the
effective amount of the other agent is about 1 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg (including
for example about 1 mg/kg to about 20 mg/kg, about 20 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg,
about 40 mg/kg to about 60 mg/kg, about 60 mg/kg to about 80 mg/kg, about 80
mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, about 100 mg/kg to about 120 mg/kg, about 120 mg/kg to
about 140 mg/kg, about 140 mg/kg to about 200 mg/kg). In some embodiments, the
effective amount of taxane (e.g., paclitaxel) in the nanoparticle composition is about
260 mg/m 2. In some embodiments of any of the above methods, the effective amount
of the other agent is about 20-30 mg/kg, about 30-40 mg/kg, about 40-50 mg/kg,
about 50-60 mg/kg, about 60-70 mg/kg, about 70-80 mg/kg, about 80-100 mg/kg, or
about 100-120 mg/kg.
[0140]           The nanoparticle composition (and the other agent) described herein
can be administered to an individual (such as human) via various routes, including,
for example, intravenous, intra-arterial, intraperitoneal, intrapulmonary, oral,
inhalation, intravesicular, intramuscular, intra-tracheal, subcutaneous, intraocular,
intrathecal, transmucosal, and transdermal. In some embodiments, sustained
continuous release formulation of the composition may be used. In one variation of
the invention, nanoparticles (such as albumin nanoparticles) of the inventive

compounds can be administered by any acceptable route including, but not limited to,
orally, intramuscularly, transdermally, intravenously, through an inhaler or other air
borne delivery systems and the like.
[01411          A combination of the administration configurations described herein
can be used. The combination therapy methods described herein may be performed
alone or in conjunction with another therapy, such as surgery, radiation,
chemotherapy, immunotherapy, gene therapy, and the like. Additionally, a person
having a greater risk of developing the proliferative disease may receive treatments to
inhibit or and/or delay the development of the disease.
101421          As will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art, the
appropriate doses of other agents will be approximately those already employed in
clinical therapies wherein the other agent are administered alone or in combination
with other agents. Variation in dosage will likely occur depending on the condition
being treated. As described above, in some embodiments, the other agents may be
administered at a reduced level.
Proliferative diseases
[01431          The methods described herein are useful for treating proliferative
diseases. In some embodiments, the proliferative disease is cancer.
[0144]          Examples of cancers that may be treated by the methods of the
invention include, but are not limited to, adenocortical carcinoma, agnogenic myeloid
metaplasia, AIDS-related cancers (e.g., AIDS-related lymphoma), anal cancer,
appendix cancer, astrocytoma (e.g., cerebellar and cerebral), basal cell carcinoma, bile
duct cancer (e.g., extrahepatic), bladder cancer, bone cancer, (osteosarcoma and
malignant fibrous histiocytoma), brain tumor (e.g., glioma, brain stem glioma,
cerebellar or cerebral astrocytoma (e.g., pilocytic astrocytoma, diffuse astrocytoma,
anaplastic (malignant) astrocytoma), malignant glioma, ependymoma,
oligodenglioma, meningioma, craniopharyngioma, haemangioblastomas,
medulloblastoma, supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors, visual pathway
and hypothalamic glioma, and glioblastoma), breast cancer, bronchial
adenomas/carcinoids, carcinoid tumor (e.g., gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor),
carcinoma of unknown primary, central nervous system lymphoma, cervical cancer,
colon cancer, colorectal cancer, chronic myeloproliferative disorders, endometrial
cancer (e.g., uterine cancer), ependymoma, esophageal cancer, Ewing's family of
                                            A4

tumors, eye cancer (e.g., intraocular melanoma and retinoblastoma), gallbladder
cancer, gastric (stomach) cancer, gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor, gastrointestinal
stromal tumor (GIST), germ cell tumor, (e.g., extracranial, extragonadal, ovarian),
gestational trophoblastic tumor, head and neck cancer, hepatocellular (liver) cancer
(e.g., hepatic carcinoma and heptoma), hypopharyngeal cancer, islet cell carcinoma
(endocrine pancreas), laryngeal cancer, laryngeal cancer, leukemia, lip and oral cavity
cancer, oral cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer (e.g., small cell lung cancer, non-small
cell lung cancer, adenocarcinoma of the lung, and squamous carcinoma of the lung),
lymphoid neoplasm (e.g., lymphoma), medulloblastoma, melanoma, mesothelioma,
metastatic squamous neck cancer, mouth cancer, multiple endocrine neoplasia
syndrome, myelodysplastic syndromes, myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases,
nasal cavity and paranasal sinus cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, neuroblastoma,
neuroendocrine cancer, orophaiyngeal cancer, ovarian cancer (e.g., ovarian epithelial
cancer, ovarian germ cell tumor, ovarian low malignant potential tumor), pancreatic
cancer, parathyroid cancer, penile cancer, cancer of the peritoneal, pharyngeal cancer,
pheochromocytoma, pineoblastoma and supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal
tumors, pituitary tumor, pleuropulmonary blastoma, lymphoma, primary central
nervous system lymphoma (microglioma), pulmonary lymphangiomyomatosis, rectal
cancer, renal cancer, renal pelvis and ureter cancer (transitional cell cancer),
rhabdomyosarcoma, salivary gland cancer, skin cancer (e.g., non-melanoma (e.g..
squamous cell carcinoma), melanoma, and Merkel cell carcinoma), small intestine
cancer, squamous cell cancer, testicular cancer, throat cancer, thymoma and thymic
carcinoma, thyroid cancer, tuberous sclerosis, urethral cancer, vaginal cancer, vulvar
cancer, Wilms' tumor, and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD),
abnormal vascular proliferation associated with phakomatoses, edema (such as that
associated with brain tumors), and Meigs' syndrome.
 [0145]         In some embodiments, the cancer is a solid tumor (such as advanced
solid tumor). Solid tumor includes, but is not limited to, sarcomas and carcinomas
such as fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteogenic
sarcoma, chordoma, angiosarcoma, endotheliosarcoma, lymphangiosarcoma,
lymphangioendotheliosarcoma, Kaposi's sarcoma. soft tissue sarcoma, uterine
sacronomasynovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma,
rhabdomyosarcoma, colon carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, ovarian
cancer, prostate cancer, squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma,
                                            A7

adenocarcinoma, sweat gland carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary
carcinoma, papillary adenocarcinomas, cystadenocarcinoma, medullary carcinoma,
bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell carcinoma (including for example
adenocarcinoma, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, papillary renal cell carcinoma,
chromophobe renal cell carcinoma, collecting duct renal cell carcinoma, granular
renal cell carcinoma, mixed granular renal cell carcinoma, renal angiomyolipomas, or
spindle renal cell carcinoma.), hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma,
seminoma, embryonal carcinoma, Wilm's tumor, cervical cancer, testicular tumor,
lung carcinoma, small cell lung carcinoma, bladder carcinoma, epithelial carcinoma,
glioma, astrocytoma, medulloblastoma, craniopharyngioma, ependymoma,
pinealoma, hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, menangioma,
melanoma, neuroblastoma, and retinoblastoma.
10146]           In some embodiments the lymphoid neoplasm (e.g., lymphoma) is a B
cell neoplasm. Examples of B-cell neoplasms include, but are not limited to, precursor
B-cell neoplasms (e.g., precursor B-lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma) and
peripheral B-cell neoplasms (e.g., B-cell chronic lymphocytic
leukemia/prolymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (small lymphocytic
(SL) NHL), lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma/inmunocytoma, mantel cell lymphoma,
follicle center lymphoma, follicular lymphoma (e.g., cytologic grades: I (small cell),
II (mixed small and large cell), III (large cell) and/or subtype: diffuse and
predominantly small cell type), low grade/follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
(NHL), intermediate grade/follicular NHL, marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (e.g.,
extranodal (e.g., MALT-type +/- monocytoid B cells) and/or Nodal (e.g., +/
monocytoid B cells)), splenic marginal zone lymphoma (e.g., +/- villous
lymphocytes), Hairy cell leukemia, plasmacytoma/plasma cell myeloma (e.g.,
myeloma and multiple myeloma), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (e.g., primary
mediastinal (thymic) B-cell lymphoma), intermediate grade diffuse NHL, Burkitt's
lymphoma, High-grade B-cell lymphoma, Burkitt-like, high grade immunoblastic
NHL, high grade lymphoblastic NHL, high grade small non-cleaved cell NHL, bulky
disease NHL, AIDS-related lymphoma, and Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia).
[0147]           In some embodiments the lymphoid neoplasm (e.g.. lymphoma) is a T
cell and/or putative NK-cell neoplasm. Examples of T-cell and/or putative NK-cell
neoplasms include, but are not limited to, precursor T-cell neoplasm (precursor T
lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia) and peripheral T-cell and NK-cell neoplasms
                                             AO

(e.g., T-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia/prolymphocytic leukemia, and large
granular lymphocyte leukemia (LGL) (e.g., T-cell type and/or NK-cell type),
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (e.g., mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome), primary T
cell lymphomas unspecified (e.g., cytological categories (e.g., medium-sized cell,
mixed medium and large cell), large cell, lymphoepitheloid cell, subtype
hepatosplenic y6 T-cell lymphoma, and subcutaneous panniculitic T-cell lymphoma),
angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AILD), angiocentric lymphoma, intestinal T
cell lymphoma (e.g., +/- enteropathy associated), adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia
(ATL), anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) (e.g., CD30+, T- and null-cell types),
anaplastic large-cell lymphoma, and Hodgkin's like).
 [01481         In some embodiments the lymphoid neoplasm (e.g., lymphoma) is
Hodgkin's disease. For example, the Hodgkin's disease may be lymphocyte
predominance, nodular sclerosis, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte depletion, and/or
lymphocyte-rich.
 [01491         In some embodiments, the cancer is leukemia. In some embodiments,
the leukemia is chronic leukemia. Examples of chronic leukemia include, but are not
limited to, chronic myelocytic I (granulocytic) leukemia, chronic myelogenous, and
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In some embodiments, the leukemia is acute
leukemia. Examples of acute leukemia include, but are not limited to, acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia,
and acute myelocytic leukemia (e.g., myeloblastic, promyelocytic, myelomonocytic,
monocytic, and erythroleukemia).
 [01501         In some embodiments., the cancer is liquid tumor or plasmacytoma.
Plasmacytoma includes, but is not limited to, myeloma. Myeloma includes, but is not
limited to, an extraiedullary plasmacytoma, a solitary myeloma, and multiple
myeloma. In some embodiments, the plasmacytoma is multiple myeloma.
 [0151]         In some embodiments, the cancer is multiple myeloma. Examples of
multiple myeloma include, but are not limited to, IgG multiple myeloma, IgA
multiple myeloma, IgD multiple myeloma, IgE multiple myeloma, and nonsecretory
multiple myeloma. In some embodiments, the multiple myeloma is IgG multiple
myeloma. In some embodiments, the multiple myeloma is IgA multiple myeloma. In
some embodiments, the multiple myeloma is a smoldering or indolent multiple
myeloma. In some embodiments, the multiple myeloma is progressive multiple
myeloia. In some embodiments, multiple myeloma may be resistant to a drug, such
                                           AO0

as, but not limited to, bortezomib, dexamethasone (Dex-), doxorubicin (Dox-), and
melphalan (LR).
[01521          In some embodiments, the cancer is selected from the group consisting
of phosphorylated-Akt positive advanced solid tumors, non-small cell lung cancer,
sarcoma, Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, malignant melanoma, sarcoma,
refractory and relapsed leukemia, Androgen-independent prostate cancer, advanced
pancreatic cancer, recurrent, hormone sensitive prostate cancer, metastatic HINSCC,
metastatic breast cancer, multiple myeloma, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer, head
and neck cancer, GIST, and relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer.
Nanoparticle compositions
[01531          The nanoparticle compositions described herein comprise
nanoparticles comprising (in various embodiments consisting essentially of) a taxane
(such as paclitaxel) and a carrier protein (such as albumin). Nanoparticles of poorly
water soluble drugs (such as taxane) have been disclosed in, for example, U.S. Pat.
Nos. 5,916,596; 6,506,405; 6,749,868, and 6,537,579 and also in U.S. Pat. Pub. Nos.
2005/0004002, 2006/0263434, and 2007/0082838; PCT Patent Application
W008/137148.
[01541          In some embodiments, the composition comprises nanoparticles with
an average or mean diameter of no greater than about 1000 nanometers (nm), such as
no greater than about any of 900, 800, 700, 600, 500, 400, 300, 200. and 100 nm. In
some embodiments. the average or mean diameters of the nanoparticles is no greater
than about 200 imn. In some embodiments, the average or mean diameters of the
nanoparticles is no greater than about 150 rim. In some embodiments, the average or
mean diameters of the nanoparticles is no greater than about 100 nm. In some
embodiments, the average or mean diameter of the nanoparticles is about 20 to about
400 nm. In some embodiments, the average or mean diameter of the nanoparticles is
about 40 to about 200 nm. In some embodiments, the nanoparticles are sterile
filterable.
[01551          In some embodiments, the nanoparticles in the composition described
herein have an average diameter of no greater than about 200 rim, including for
example no greater than about any one of 190, 180, 170, 160, 150, 140, 130, 120, 110,
100, 90, 80, 70, or 60 nm. In some embodiments, at least about 50% (for example at
least about any one of 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99%) of all the nanoparticles in
                                             lzi

the composition have a diameter of no greater than about 200 nm, including for
example no greater than about any one of 190, 180. 170, 160, 150, 140, 130, 120, 110,
 100, 90, 80, 70, or 60 nm. In some embodiments, at least about 50% (for example at
least any one of 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99%) of all the nanoparticles in the
composition fall within the range of about 20 to about 400 nm, including for example
about 20 to about 200 nm, abiyt 40 to about 200 nm, about 30 to about 180 nm, and
any one of about 40 to about 150, about 50 to about 120, and about 60 to about 100
nm.
 [0156]         In some embodiments, the carrier protein has sulfhydral groups that
can form disulfide bonds. In some embodiments, at least about 5% (including for
example at least about any one of 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%,
80%, or 90%) of the carrier protein in the nanoparticle portion of the composition are
crosslinked (for example crosslinked through one or more disulfide bonds).
 101571         In some embodiments, the nanoparticles comprise the taxane(such as
paclitaxel) coated with a carrier protein, such as albumin (e.g., human serum
albumin). In some embodiments, the composition comprises taxane in both
nanoparticle and non-nanoparticle forms. wherein at least about any one of 50%,
60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the taxane in the composition are in
nanoparticle form. In some embodiments, the taxane in the nanoparticles constitutes
more than about any one of 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or 99% of the
nanoparticles by weight. In some embodiments, the nanoparticles have a non
polymeric matrix. In some embodiments, the nanoparticles comprise a core of taxane
that is substantially free of polymeric materials (such as polymeric matrix).
 [0158]         In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is substantially
free (such as free) of surfactants (such as Cremophor®, Tween 80, or other organic
solvents used for the administration of taxanes). In some embodiments, the
nanoparticle composition contains less than about any one of 20%, 15%, 10%, 7.5%,
5%, 2.5%, or 1% organic solvent. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of carrier
protein (such as albumin) and taxane in the nanoparticle composition is about 18:1 or
less, such as about 15:1 or less, for example about 10:1 or less. In some
embodiments, the weight ratio of carrier protein (such as albumin) and taxane in the
composition falls within the range of any one of about 1:1 to about 18:1, about 2:1 to
about 15:1, about 3:1 to about 13:1, about 4:1 to about 12:1, about 5:1 to about 10:1.
In some embodiments, the weight ratio of carrier protein and taxane in the
                                             'Z1

nanoparticle portion of the composition is about any one of 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:10,
 1:15, or less. In some embodiments, the weight ratio of the carrier protein (such as
albumin) and the taxane in the composition is any one of the following: about 1:1 to
about 18:1, about 1:1 to about 15:1, about 1:1 to about 12:1, about 1:1 to about 10:1,
about 1:1 to about 9:1, about 1:1 to about 8:1, about 1:1 to about 7:1, about 1:1 to
about 6:1, about 1:1 to about 5:1, about 1:1 to about 4:1, about 1:1 to about 3:1, about
 1:1 to about 2:1, about 1:1 to about 1:1.
 [01591          In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition comprises one or
more of the above characteristics.
 101601          The nanoparticles described herein may be present in a dry formulation
(such as lyophilized composition) or suspended in a biocompatible medium. Suitable
biocompatible media include, but are not limited to, water, buffered aqueous media,
saline, buffered saline, optionally buffered solutions of amino acids, optionally
buffered solutions of proteins, optionally buffered solutions of sugars, optionally
buffered solutions of vitamins, optionally buffered solutions of synthetic polymers,
lipid-containing emulsions, and the like.
 [0161]          The nanoparticles described herein comprise a taxane and a carrier
protein. The term "proteins" refers to polypeptides or polymers of amino acids of any
length (including full length or fragments), which may be linear or branched,
comprise modified amino acids, and/or be interrupted by non-amino acids. The term
also encompasses an amino acid polymer that has been modified naturally or by
intervention; for example, disulfide bond formation, glycosylation, lipidation,
acetylation, phosphorylation, or any other manipulation or modification. Also
included within this term are, for example, polypeptides containing one or more
analogs of an amino acid (including, for example, unnatural amino acids, etc.), as well
as other modifications known in the art. The proteins described herein may be
naturally occurring, i.e., obtained or derived from a natural source (such as blood), or
synthesized (such as chemically synthesized or by synthesized by recombinant DNA
techniques).
 [01621          Examples of suitable carrier proteins include proteins normally found
in blood or plasma, which include, but are not limited to, albumin, immunoglobulin
including IgA, lipoproteins, apolipoprotein B, alpha-acid glycoprotein, beta-2
macroglobulin, thyroglobulin, transferin, fibronectin, factor VII, factor ViII, factor
IX, factor X, and the like. In some embodiments, the carrier protein is non-blood
                                             Cz-)

protein, such as casein, a-lactalbumin, and p-lactoglobulin. The carrier proteins may
either be natural in origin or synthetically prepared. In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises albumin, such as human serum
albumin. Human serum albumin (HSA) is a highly soluble globular protein of Mr
65K and consists of 585 amino acids. HSA is the most abundant protein in the
plasma and accounts for 70-80 % of the colloid osmotic pressure of human plasma.
The amino acid sequence of HSA contains a total of 17 disulphide bridges, one free
thiol (Cys 34), and a single tryptophan (Trp 214). Intravenous use of HSA solution
has been indicated for the prevention and treatment of hypovolumic shock (see, e.g.,
Tullis, JAMA, 237, 355-360, 460-463, (1977)) and Houser et al., Surgery, Gynecology
and Obstetrics, 150, 811-816 (1980)) and in conjunction with exchange transfusion in
the treatment of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (see, e.g., Finlayson, Seminars in
Thrombosis and Hemostasis, 6, 85-120, (1980)).       Other albumins are contemplated.
such as bovine serum albumin. Use of such non-human albumins could be
appropriate, for example, in the context of use of these compositions in non-human
mammals, such as the veterinary (including domestic pets and agricultural context).
 [0163]          Human serum albumin (HSA) has multiple hydrophobic binding sites
(a total of eight for fatty acids, an endogenous ligand of HSA) and binds a diverse set
of taxanes, especially neutral and negatively charged hydrophobic compounds
(Goodman et al., The PharmacologicalBasis of Therapeutics, 9h ed, McGraw-Hill
New York (1996)). Two high affinity binding sites have been proposed in
subdomains IIA and IIIA of HSA, which are highly elongated hydrophobic pockets
with charged lysine and arginine residues near the surface which function as
attachment points for polar ligand features (see, e.g., Fehske et al., Biochem.
Pharmcol., 30, 687-92 (198a), Vorum, Dan. Med. Bull., 46, 379-99 (1999), Kragh
Hansen, Dan. Med. Bull., 1441, 131-40 (1990), Curry et al.. Nat. Struct. Biol., 5, 827
35 (1998), Sugio et al., Protein. Eng., 12, 439-46 (1999), He et al., Nature, 358, 209
 15 (199b), and Carter et al.. Adv. Protein. Chem., 45, 153-203 (1994)). Paclitaxel and
propofol have been shown to bind HSA (see, e.g., Paal et al., Eur. J. Biochem.,
268(7), 2187-91 (200a), Purcell et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1478(a), 61-8 (2000),
Altmayer et al., Arzneimittelforschung, 45, 1053-6 (1995), and Garrido et al., Rev.
Esp. Anestestiol. Reanim., 41, 308-12 (1994)). In addition, docetaxel has been shown
to bind to human plasma proteins (see, e.g., Urien et al., Invest. New Drugs, 14(b),
 147-51 (1996)).

 10164]          The carrier protein (such as albumin) in the composition generally
serves as a carrier for the taxane, i.e., the carrier protein in the composition makes the
taxane more readily suspendable in an aqueous medium or helps maintain the
suspension as compared to compositions not comprising a carrier protein. This can
avoid the use of toxic solvents (or surfactants) for solubilizing the taxane, and thereby
can reduce one or more side effects of administration of the taxane into an individual
(such as a human). Thus, in some embodiments, the composition described herein is
substantially free (such as free) of surfactants, such as Cremophor (including
Cremophor EL* (BASF)). In some embodiments, the nanoparticle composition is
substantially free (such as free) of surfactants. A composition is "substantially free of
Cremophor" or "substantially free of surfactant" if the amount of Cremophor or
surfactant in the composition is not sufficient to cause one or more side effect(s) in an
individual when the nanoparticle composition is administered to the individual.
 101651          The amount of carrier protein in the composition described herein will
vary depending on other components in the composition. In some embodiments, the
composition comprises a carrier protein in an amount that is sufficient to stabilize the
taxane in an aqueous suspension, for example, in the form of a stable colloidal
suspension (such as a stable suspension of nanoparticles). In some embodiments, the
carrier protein is in an amount that reduces the sedimentation rate of the taxane in an
aqueous medium. For particle-containing compositions, the amount of the carrier
protein also depends on the size and density of nanoparticles of the taxane.
 [01661          A taxane is "stabilized" in an aqueous suspension if it remains
suspended in an aqueous medium (such as without visible precipitation or
sedimentation) for an extended period of time, such as for at least about any of 0.1,
0.2, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, or 72 hours. The
suspension is generally, but not necessarily, suitable for administration to an
individual (such as human). Stability of the suspension is generally (but not
necessarily) evaluated at a storage temperature (such as room temperature (such as
20-25 C) or refrigerated conditions (such as 4 C)). For example, a suspension is
stable at a storage temperature if it exhibits no flocculation or particle agglomeration
visible to the naked eye or when viewed under the optical microscope at 1000 times,
at about fifteen minutes after preparation of the suspension. Stability can also be
evaluated under accelerated testing conditions, such as at a temperature that is higher
than about 40 'C.
                                                 IZA

 10167]          In some embodiments, the carrier protein is present in an amount that
is sufficient to stabilize the taxane in an aqueous suspension at a certain concentration.
For example, the concentration of the taxane in the composition is about 0.1 to about
 100 mg/ml, including for example any of about 0.1 to about 50 mg/ml, about 0.1 to
about 20 mg/ml, about I to about 10 mg/ml, about 2 mg/ml to about 8 mg/ml, about 4
to about 6 mg/ml, about 5 mg /ml. In some embodiments, the concentration of the
taxane is at least about any of 1.3 mg/ml, 1.5 mg/ml, 2 mg/ml, 3 mg/ml, 4 mg/ml, 5
mg/ml, 6 img/ml, 7 mg/ml, 8 mg/ml, 9 mg/mL, 10 mg/ml, 15 mg/ml, 20 mg/ml, 25
mg/ml, 30 mg/ml, 40 mg/ml, and 50 mg/ml. In some embodiments, the carrier
protein is present in an amount that avoids use of surfactants (such as Cremophor), so
that the composition is free or substantially free of surfactant (such as Cremophor).
 [01681          In some embodiments, the composition, in liquid form, comprises from
about 0.1% to about 50% (w/v) (e.g. about 0.5% (w/v), about 5% (w/v), about 10%
(w/v), about 15% (w/v), about 20% (w/v), about 30% (w/v), about 40% (w/v), or
about 50% (w/v)) of carrier protein. In some embodiments, the composition, in liquid
form, comprises about 0.5% to about 5% (w/v) of carrier protein.
 [0169]          In some embodiments, the weight ratio of carrier protein, e.g., albumin,
to the taxane in the nanoparticle composition is such that a sufficient amount of
taxane binds to, or is transported by, the cell. While the weight ratio of carrier protein
to taxane will have to be optimized for different carrier protein and taxane
combinations, generally the weight ratio of carrier protein, e.g., albumin, to taxane
(w/w) is about 0.01:1 to about 100:1, about 0.02:1 to about 50:1, about 0.05:1 to about
20:1, about 0.1:1 to about 20:1, about 1:1 to about 18:1, about 2:1 to about 15:1, about
3:1 to about 12:1, about 4:1 to about 10:1, about 5:1 to about 9:L or about 9:1. In
some embodiments, the carrier protein to taxane weight ratio is about any of 18:1 or
less, 15:1 or less, 14:1 or less, 13:1 or less, 12:1 or less, 11:1 or less, 10:1 or less, 9:1
or less, 8:1 or less, 7:1 or less, 6:1 or less, 5:1 or less, 4:1 or less,. and 3:1 or less. In
some embodiments, the weight ratio of the carrier protein (such as albumin) and the
taxane in the composition is any one of the following: about 1:1 to about 18:1, about
 1:1 to about 15:1, about 1:1 to about 12:1, about 1:1 to about 10:1, about 1:1 to about
9:1, about 1:1 to about 8:1, about 1:1 to about 7:1, about 1:1 to about 6:1, about 1:1 to
about 5:1, about 1:1 to about 4:1, about 1:1 to about 3:1, about 1:1 to about 2:1, about
 1:1 to about 1:1.
                                                'ZIC

10170]          In some embodiments, the carrier protein allows the composition to be
administered to an individual (such as human) without significant side effects. In
some embodiments, the carrier protein (such as albumin) is in an amount that is
effective to reduce one or more side effects of administration of the taxane to a
human. The term "reducing one or more side effects of administration of the taxane"
refers to reduction, alleviation, elimination, or avoidance of one or more undesirable
effects caused by the taxane, as well as side effects caused by delivery vehicles (such
as solvents that render the taxanes suitable for injection) used to deliver the taxane.
Such side effects include, for example, myelosuppression, neurotoxicity,
hypersensitivity, inflammation, venous irritation, phlebitis, pain, skin irritation,
peripheral neuropathy, neutropenic fever, anaphylactic reaction, venous thrombosis,
extravasation, and combinations thereof. These side effects, however, are merely
exemplary and other side effects. or combination of side effects, associated with
taxanes can be reduced.
[01711          In some embodiments, the composition comprises Abraxane* (nab
paclitaxel). Abraxane* is a formulation of paclitaxel stabilized by human albumin
USP, which can be dispersed in directly injectable physiological solution. When
dispersed in a suitable aqueous medium such as 0.9% sodium chloride injection or 5%
dextrose injection, Abraxane* forms a stable colloidal suspension of paclitaxel. The
mean particle size of the nanoparticles in the colloidal suspension is about 130
nanometers. Since HSA is freely soluble in water, Abraxane* can be reconstituted in
a wide range of concentrations ranging from dilute (0.1 mg/ml paclitaxel) to
concentrated (20 mg/ml paclitaxel), including for example about 2 mg/ml to about 8
mg/ml, about 5 mg/ml.
[01721          Methods of making nanoparticle compositions are known in the art.
For example, nanoparticles containing taxanes (such as paclitaxel) and carrier protein
(such as albumin) can be prepared under conditions of high shear forces (e.g.,
sonication, high pressure homogenization, or the like). These methods are disclosed
in, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,916,596; 6,506,405; 6,749,868, and 6,537,579 and
also in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2005/0004002, 2007/0082838, 2006/0263434and PCT
Application W008/137148.
10173]          Briefly, the taxane (such as paclitaxel) is dissolved in an organic
solvent, and the solution can be added to a human serum albumin solution. The
mixture is subjected to high pressure homogenization. The organic solvent can then

be removed by evaporation. The dispersion obtained can be further lyophilized.
Suitable organic solvent include, for example, ketones, esters, ethers, chlorinated
solvents, and other solvents known in the art. For example, the organic solvent can be
methylene chloride or chloroform/ethanol (for example with a ratio of 1:9, 1:8, 1:7,
1:6, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, or 9:1.
Other components in the nanoparticle compositions
[01741           The nanoparticles described herein can be present in a composition that
include other agents, excipients, or stabilizers. For example, to increase stability by
increasing the negative zeta potential of nanoparticles, certain negatively charged
components may be added. Such negatively charged components include, but are not
limited to bile salts of bile acids consisting of glycocholic acid, cholic acid,
chenodeoxycholic acid, taurocholic acid, glycochenodeoxycholic acid,
taurochenodeoxycholic acid, litocholic acid, ursodeoxycholic acid, dehydrocholic acid
and others; phospholipids including lecithin (egg yolk) based phospholipids which
include the following phosphatidylcholines: palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine,
palmitoyllinoleoylphosphatidylcholine , stearoyllinoleoylphosphatidylcholine
stearoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine, stearoylarachidoylphosphatidylcholine, and
dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine. Other phospholipids including L-a
dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC), dioleoylphosphatidylcholine (DOPC),
distearyolphosphatidylcholine (DSPC), hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine
(HSPC), and other related compounds. Negatively charged surfactants or emulsifiers
are also suitable as additives, e.g., sodium cholesteryl sulfate and the like.
[01751          In some embodiments,. the composition is suitable for administration to
a human. In some embodiments, the composition is suitable for administration to a
mammal such as, in the veterinary context, domestic pets and agricultural animals.
There are a wide variety of suitable formulations of the nanoparticle composition (see,
e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,916,596 and 6,096,331). The following formulations and
methods are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting. Formulations suitable for
oral administration can consist of (a) liquid solutions, such as an effective amount of
the compound dissolved in diluents, such as water, saline, or orange juice, (b)
capsules, sachets or tablets, each containing a predetermined amount of the active
ingredient, as solids or granules, (c) suspensions in an appropriate liquid, and (d)
suitable emulsions. Tablet forms can include one or more of lactose, mannitol, corn
                                               1Z'7

starch, potato starch, microcrystalline cellulose, acacia, gelatin, colloidal silicon
dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, talc, magnesium stearate, stearic acid, and other
excipients, colorants, diluents, buffering agents, moistening agents, preservatives,
flavoring agents, and pharmacologically compatible excipients. Lozenge forms can
comprise the active ingredient in a flavor, usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth, as
well as pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert base, such as gelatin and
glycerin, or sucrose and acacia, emulsions, gels, and the like containing, in addition to
the active ingredient, such excipients as are known in the art.
 [0176]          Examples of suitable carriers, excipients, and diluents include, but are
not limited to, lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol, mannitol, starches, gum acacia,
calcium phosphate, alginates, tragacanth, gelatin, calcium silicate, microcrystalline
cellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, cellulose, water, saline solution, syrup,
methylcellulose, methyl- and propylhydroxybenzoates, talc, magnesium stearate, and
mineral oil. The formulations can additionally include lubricating agents, wetting
agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, preserving agents, sweetening agents or
flavoring agents.
 [0177]          Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous
and non-aqueous, isotonic sterile injection solutions, which can contain anti-oxidants,
buffers, bacteriostats, and solutes that render the formulation compatible with the
blood of the intended recipient, and aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions that
can include suspending agents, solubilizers, thickening agents, stabilizers, and
preservatives. The formulations can be presented in unit-dose or multi-dose sealed
containers, such as ampules and vials, and can be stored in a freeze-dried
lyophilizedd) condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid excipient, for
example, water, for injections, immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection
solutions and suspensions can be prepared from sterile powders, granules, and tablets
of the kind previously described. Injectable formulations are preferred.
 [0178]          In some embodiments, the composition is formulated to have a pH
range of about 4.5 to about 9.0, including for example pH ranges of any of about 5.0
to about 8.0, about 6.5 to about 7.5, and about 6.5 to about 7.0. In some
embodiments, the pH of the composition is formulated to no less than about 6,
including for example no less than about any of 6.5, 7, or 8 (such as about 8). The
composition can also be made to be isotonic with blood by the addition of a suitable
tonicity modifier, such as glycerol.
                                             'ZO

Kits, medicines, and compositions
[01791          The invention also provides kits, medicines, and compositions for use
in the instant methods.
[0180]          Kits of the invention include one or more containers comprising
taxane-containing nanoparticle compositions (or unit dosage forms and/or articles of
manufacture) and/or at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal, and in some embodiments, further comprise instructions for use
in accordance with any of the methods described herein. The kit may further
comprise a description of selection an individual suitable or treatment. Instructions
supplied in the kits of the invention are typically written instructions on a label or
package insert (e.g., a paper sheet included in the kit), but machine-readable
instructions (e.g., instructions carried on a magnetic or optical storage disk) are also
acceptable.
[01811          In some embodiments, the kit comprises a) a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin), and b) an
effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal. In some embodiments, the kit comprises a) a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin),
b) an effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal, and c) instructions for administering the nanoparticles and the
other agents simultaneously, sequentially, or concurrently for treatment of a
proliferative disease (such as cancer). In some embodiments, the taxane is any of
paclitaxel, docetaxel, and ortataxel. In some embodiments, the kit comprises
nanoparticles comprising a) a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising
paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as Abraxane*), b) an effective amount of at
least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal, and c)
instructions for administering the nanoparticles and the other agents simultaneously,
sequentially, and/or concurrently, for the effective treatment of a proliferative disease
(such as cancer).
[0182]          In some embodiments, the kit comprises a) a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane coated with a carrier protein (such as albumin), b) a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising at least one other agent that inhibits
a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal and a carrier protein (such as albumin), and

c) instructions for administering the nanoparticle compositions simultaneously,
sequentially, and/or concurrently, for treatment of a proliferative disease (such as
cancer). In some embodiments, the kit comprises nanoparticles comprising a) a
composition comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin
(such as Abraxane*), b) a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising at least
one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal and a carrier
protein (such as albumin), and c) instructions for administering the nanoparticle
compositions simultaneously, sequentially, and/or concurrently, for the effective
treatment of a proliferative disease (such as cancer).
 101831          The nanoparticles and the other agents can be present in separate
containers or in a single container. It is understood that the kit may comprise one
distinct composition or two or more compositions wherein one composition comprises
nanoparticles and one composition comprises an other agent.
 101841          The kits of the invention are in suitable packaging. Suitable packaging
include, but is not limited to, vials, bottles, jars, flexible packaging (e.g., seled Mylar
or plastic bags), and the like. Kits may optionally provide additional components
such as buffers and interpretative information. The present application thus also
provides articles of manufacture, which include vials (such as sealed vials), bottles,
jars, flexible packaging, and the like.
 [0185]          The instructions relating to the use of the nanoparticle compositions
generally include information as to dosage, dosing schedule, and route of
administration for the intended treatment. The containers may be unit doses, bulk
packages (e.g., multi-dose packages) or sub-unit doses. For example, kits may be
provided that contain sufficient dosages of the taxane (such as taxane) as disclosed
herein to provide effective treatment of an individual for an extended period, such as
any of a week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, 3 months, 4 months, 5
months, 7 months, 8 months, 9 months, or more. Kits may also include multiple unit
doses of the taxane and pharmaceutical compositions and instructions for use and
packaged in quantities sufficient for storage and use in pharmacies, for example,
hospital pharmacies and compounding pharmacies.
 [0186]          Also provided are medicines for treating proliferative diseases. In
some embodiments, the medicine comprises a) a composition comprising
nanoparticles comprising a taxane and a carrier protein (such as albumin), and b) at
least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal. In some

embodiments, the taxane is any of paclitaxel, docetaxel, and ortataxel. In some
embodiments, the kit comprises nanoparticles comprising a) a composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising paclitaxel coated with an albumin (such as
Abraxane*), and b) at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or
inflammatory signal, and c) instructions for administering the nanoparticles and the
other agents simultaneously, sequentially, and/or concurrently, for the effective
treatment of a proliferative disease (such as cancer).
 [01871         The nanoparticles and the other agents can be present in separate
containers or in a single container. It is understood that the medicine may comprise
one distinct composition or two or more compositions wherein one composition
comprises nanoparticles and one composition comprises another agent.
 [01881         The kits, medicines, and compositions of this invention may include
any one or more aspects or parameters described herein.
 101891         Those skilled in the art will recognize that several embodiments are
possible within the scope and spirit of this invention. The invention will now be
described in greater detail by reference to the following non-limiiting examples. The
following examples further illustrate the invention but, of course, should not be
construed as in any way limiting its scope.
                                      EXAMPLES
Example 1. Induction of Survival and Inflammatory Signals by Chemotherapy in
MDA-MB-231 Tumor Cells
 [0190]         Cultured MDA-MB-23 1 breast tumor cells were treated with 0, 2.5, 5,
 10, and 30 nM of Abraxane* for 48 hr. Cell lysates was detected for prosurvival
signals (p-STAT3, p42 & p44 kinase, p-NF-KB p65, p-NF-B p50, p-Akt, bcl-2)
using Western blotting. Conditioned media was analyzed for secreted levels of
angiogenic (VEGF-A) and inflammatory (IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-a) proteins by ELISA.
 [01911         Cultured MDA-MB-231 cells were treated with 0, 2.5, 5, 10, and 30
nM of Abraxane* followed by detection of angiogenic (VEGF-A), prosurvival (p42 &
p44 kinase, bcl-2) and inflammatory (IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-a) proteins using Western
blotting and ELISA.
 [01921        In vitro, Abraxane* treatment increased expression of VEGF-A,
p42/44 kinase, bcl-2 as well as total and phosphorylated p65 subunit of NF-kB.
                                             IC1

Treated cells secreted 25- to 30-fold higher concentrations of inflammatory cytokines
IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-a into conditioned media as compared with untreated control
cells.
 [01931         In response to low concentration Abraxane*4 treatment, pro-survival
signals were upregulated in MDA-MB-231 breast tumor cells, including the
phosphorylation of p42/p44 kinase, Akt, plus NF-KB p50 and p65 subunits and the
expression of bcl-2.
 [01941         In response to low concentration Abraxane* exposure, increased
secretion of VEGF and 25- to 30-fold higher concentrations of inflammatory
cytokines IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-ax was observed in conditioned media as compared
with untreated control cells.
 [01951         Upregulation of pro-survival and inflammatory signals including
VEGF-A, bcl-2, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-a,. as well as phosphorylated NF-KB p65 and
p42/44 kinase were seen in vitro in response to low dose Abraxane* treatment.
Example 2. Induction of Survival Signals by Chemotherapy in MDA-MB-231
Breast Tumor Xenografts in vivo
 10196]         Luciferase-tagged MDA-MB-231 cells were implanted orthotopically
into the mammary fatpad of female SCID mice and allowed to reach 500 mm 3 in size
before treated with 30 mg/kg Abraxane*, IV, qdx5.
 [01971         Mice were sacrificed 3, 5 or 8 days post treatment and MDA-MB-231
tumors were extracted. Tumor lysates were analyzed for VEGF expression and pro
survival signals (p42 & p44 kinase, p-NF-KB p50,. p-Akt, bcl-2) using Western
blotting. Expression of bcl-2 was further analyzed by immunohistochemistry.
 [01981         MDA-MB-23 1 tumors were extracted from mice upon cessation of
intravenous (IV) Abraxane* therapy (10 to 30 mg/kg, qdx5) followed by Western blot
and immunohistochemical analyses.
 101991         Significant increases in bcl-2 and inflammatory cytokines were
observed in tumors extracted immediately after paclitaxel therapy in vivo as
confirmed by both Western blotting and immunohistochemical analyses.
 [02001         In the surviving portion of tumors following Abraxane*t treatment,
there was increased pro-survival signals including the phosphorylation of p42/p44
kinase, Akt, plus NF-KB p50 subunit and the expression of bcl-2. Consistent with

previous results (4), VEGF expression was upregulated in the remaining tumors after
Abraxane* chemotherapy.
 [02011          Consistent with in vitro results, increase in the expression of VEGF,
bcl-2, and activation of pro-survival signaling were noted in vivo in the surviving
MDA-MB-23 1 xenograft breast tumors following Abraxane" treatment.
Example 3. Activation of the NF-KB pathway by nab-paclitaxel in cultured 231
Luc+ cells
 [0202]          231 -Luc+ cells were treated with escalating doses of nab-paclitaxel (0
30 nM) for 8-48 hours followed by Western blot analysis. Eight hours after exposure
to nab-paclitaxel the expression of phosphoiylated p-p50 and p-p65 subunits of the
NF-KB as well as Bcl-xL was significantly increased (Fig.6A). Later time-points (24h
and 48h) showed significant increases in p-Akt and p-p44/42 although the expression
of non-phosphorylated counterparts remained unchanged (Fig.6A). NF-B activation
by nab-paclitaxel was further confirmed by measuring inflammatory cytokines IL-6
and IL-8, the downstream products of this pathway. Cytokines from conditioned
medium of 23 1-Luc+ cells treated for 72h with nab-paclitaxel (2.5-3OnM) were
measured using Luminex. Nab-paclitaxel significantly increased expression of both
IL-6 and IL-8 in a dose-dependent manner up to maximum of 20-22-fold (Fig.6B).
TNF-a was also increased from undetectable level to 9.5x103 pg normalized per
 1x 106 cells (Fig.6C). These findings demonstrate that nab-paclitaxel activates the NF
KB   pathway in tumor cells leading to increased expression of IL-6, IL-8, TNF-a, Bel
2 and Bel-xL, all of which may trigger reactionary angiogenesis and promote survival
of tumor cells.
 [02031          We next determined whether nab-paclitaxel behaves similarly in vivo.
Groups of 231-Luc+ bearing mice (n=4) with advanced tumors (500mm3) were
treated with nab-paclitaxel (30mg/kg) followed by analysis on the third, fifth and
eighth day after initiation of the treatment. Tumor lysates and sections were analyzed
for the expression of NF-KB and pro-survival proteins using Western blot and
immunohistochemistry, respectively. The expression of several inflammatory and pro
survival proteins including p-p50, p-p44/42, p-Akt, Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL has significantly
increased following nab-paclitaxel treatment. The highest increase for most targets
was on the 8th day post-treatment (Fig.7A). Of all targets, upregulation of Bcl-2 and
Bcl-xL was the most conspicuous, and these targets were confirmed by
                                              12

immunohistochemistry. Control tumors displayed homogenous but weak Bcl-2
expression, and strong but sporadically expressed Bcl-xL (Fig.7B, Control). Three
days after nab-paclitaxel treatment, the expression of both proteins was slightly
decreased or unchanged. However, at 5th and 8th days post-treatment, the expression
of both proteins was significantly increased (Fig.7B). Collectively, these data suggest
that chemotherapy-induced activation of the NF-KB pathway play an important role in
chemoresistance of advanced tumors.
 [02041         Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by
way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it is apparent
to those skilled in the art that certain minor changes and modifications will be
practiced. Therefore, the description and examples should not be construed as
limiting the scope of the invention.
 10205]         All references, including publications, patent applications, and patents,
cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each
reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference
and were set forth in its entirety herein.
 [0206]         Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein,
including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention.
Embodiments of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of
ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect
skilled artisans to employ such embodiments as appropriate, and the inventors intend
for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.
Accordingly, this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject
matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law.
Moreover, any combination of the above-described elements in all possible
embodiments thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated
herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.
                                             'cIA

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.     A method of treating a proliferative disease in an individual comprising
 administering to the individual:
 a) an effective amount of a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
 taxane and a carrier protein, and
 b) an effective amount of at least one other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or
 inflammatory signal.
 2.     The method according to claim I, wherein said other agent is an Akt inhibitor.
 3.     The method according to claim 2, wherein said other agent is selected from the
 group consisting of perifosine, GSK690693, triciribine phosphate monohydrate,
 API-2/TCN, XL418, and erlotinib.
 4.     The method according to claim 3, wherein said other agent is perifosine.
 5.     The method according to claim 4, further comprising administering to said
 individual an antimetabolite.
 6.     The method according to claim 2, wherein said other agent is in an amount
 effective to inhibit taxane-mediated upregulation of Akt.
 7.     The method according to claim 1, wherein said other agent is an inhibitor of
 bcl-2.
 8.     The method according to claim 1 or 7, wherein said other agent is an inhibitor
 of bcl-xL.
 9.     The method according to any one of claims 1-8, wherein the proliferative
 disease is cancer.
 10.    The method according to claim 9, wherein the cancer is breast cancer.

11.    The method according to claim 9, wherein the cancer is lung cancer.
12.    The method according to claim 9, wherein the cancer is colorectal cancer.
13.    The method according to any one of claims 1-12, wherein the composition
comprising nanoparticles comprising taxane and albumin and the other agent are
administered simultaneously.
14.    The method according to any one of claims 1-12, wherein the composition
comprising nanoparticles of taxane and albumin and the other agent are administered
sequentially.
15.    The method according to any one of claims 1-12, wherein the composition
comprising nanoparticles of taxane and albumin and the other agent are administered
concurrently.
16.    The method according to any one of claims 1-15, wherein the taxane is
paclitaxel.
17.    The method according to any one of claims 1-16, wherein the average
diameter of the nanoparticles in the composition is no greater than about 200 nm.
18.    The method according to any one of claims 1-17, wherein the carrier protein is
albumin.
19.    The method according to claim 18, wherein the weight ratio of the albumin
and the taxane in the nanoparticle composition is less than about 1:1 to about 18:1.
20.    The method according to any one of claims 1-19, wherein the individual is a
human.
21.    A kit comprising: a) a composition comprising nanoparticles comprising a
taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of at least one other agent
that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal.
                                          4e'

22.   A medicine comprising: a) a composition comprising nanoparticles
comprising a taxane and a carrier protein, and b) an effective amount of at least one
other agent that inhibits a prosurvival and/or inflammatory signal.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
