ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a method of treating aqueous fluid and apparatus therefor. The
method comprises adding an organic compound to a mass of aqueous fluid comprising at least
one Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI). The organic compound comprises a hydrophobic tail and a
hydrophilic head. The hydrophobic tail comprises at least one C-H bond and the hydrophilic
head comprises a carboxyl (-COOH) group.

               5
04         C
 CN        c
    C%4
      c.%J
           CN
           C14
                 'RK

Title of Invention: Water treatment
Field of the Invention
[0001]        The present invention relates to a method of treating aqueous fluid comprising a
water miscible polymer and in particular but not exclusively to a method of treating aqueous
fluid comprising a Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI). The present invention also relates to
aqueous fluid treatment apparatus which is configured to treat aqueous fluid comprising a water
miscible polymer.
[0002]        The present invention further relates to a method of treating aqueous fluid with a
compound comprising a polymer and in particular but not exclusively with a compound
comprising a water miscible polymer. The compound may, for example, comprise a Kinetic
Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI). The present invention yet further relates to aqueous fluid treatment
apparatus which is configured to treat aqueous fluid with a compound comprising a polymer.
Background to the Invention
[0003]        Gas hydrates (or clathrate hydrates) are crystalline water-based solids which
physically resemble ice and in which small non-polar molecules, partially polar molecules or
polar molecules with large hydrophobic moieties, such as methane and carbon dioxide, are
trapped inside cage-like structures of hydrogen bonded water molecules. The molecules trapped
in the cage-like structures lend support to the lattice structure of the gas hydrate through van der
Waals interactions; without such support the lattice structure is liable to collapse into a
conventional ice crystal structure or liquid water. Gas hydrates typically form under elevated
pressure and low temperature conditions. Such gas hydrate formation favouring conditions often
arise in oil/gas pipelines and may result in agglomerations of clathrate crystals which are liable
to obstruct the flow line, limit or stop production and/or damage equipment, such as pipelines,
valves and instrumentation, and thereby pose significant economic and safety concerns. The
formation of gas hydrates in oil and gas production operations therefore presents a significant
economic problem and safety risk.
[0004]        It is known to use Low Dosage Hydrate Inhibitors (LDHIs) to prevent gas hydrate
caused flow line blocking and equipment fouling problems. There are two types of LDHIs:
Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitors (KHIs); and Anti-Agglomerants (AAs). Kls inhibit the nucleation
and/or growth of gas hydrate crystals in produced water whereas AAs prevent the agglomeration
of hydrate crystals into problematic plugs.

[0005]       The active part of most commercially available KHI formulations is a synthetic
polymer. The most commonly used synthetic polymer is a water miscible poly-n-vinylamide
such as polyvinylcaprolactam (PVCap). The active polymer typically makes up less than half of
a KHI formulation with the remainder being water miscible polymer solvent such as a low
molecular weight alcohol, e.g. methanol, ethanol or propanol, a glycol, e.g. monoethylene glycol
(MEG) or a glycol ether, e.g. ethylene glycol monobutyl ether (EGBE) or 2-butoxyethanol.
Dispersion of the solid polymer in the liquid solvent provides for ease of distribution of the KHI,
for example by pumping of the KHI through pipelines to the inhibitor injection points.
Furthermore the solvent acts as a synergist by enhancing the hydrate formation inhibiting
properties of the polymer. The polymer is by far the most expensive part of KHI formulations.
[0006]       Kls offer many advantages over traditional approaches to hydrate inhibition.
Nevertheless there are a number of problems associated with the use of KHIs including the
following specific examples. In view of the non-biodegradable nature of many KHI polymers
the disposal of KHI containing reservoir produced water is normally a significant issue where
there is no reinjection of the produced water into the reservoir, e.g. where reinjection is
impossible. Where produced water is treated KHI polymers are liable to foul treatment
apparatus, such as MEG or methanol regeneration units. Where there is reinjection of produced
water high reservoir temperatures can give rise to KHI polymer precipitation which is liable to
block well perforations and rock pores and thereby reduce injection efficiency.
[0007]       The present invention has been devised in the light of the inventors' appreciation of
problems associated with the use of KHIs, including the problems mentioned above. It is
therefore an object for the present invention to provide a method of treating aqueous fluid
comprising a water miscible polymer, such as at least one Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI). It is
a further object for the present invention to provide aqueous fluid treatment apparatus which is
configured to treat aqueous fluid comprising a water miscible polymer, such as at least one
Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI).
Statement of Invention
[0008]       According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
treating aqueous fluid, the method comprising adding an organic compound to a mass of aqueous
fluid comprising at least one Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI), the organic compound comprising
a hydrophobic tail and a hydrophilic head, the hydrophobic tail comprising at least one C-H bond
and the hydrophilic head comprising a carboxyl (-COOH) group.

[0009]       In use the mass of aqueous fluid, which may be aqueous fluid present in an oil or gas
production operation, is treated by addition of the organic compound. The organic compound
may be added, for example, at an oil or gas production processing facility, such as a facility
configured to handle produced water. The mass of aqueous fluid may therefore comprise
aqueous liquid, such as produced water which may comprise at least one of formation and
condensed water. The addition of the organic compound to the mass of aqueous fluid may cause
separation of at least a part of the KHI from the aqueous fluid. More specifically the organic
compound may cause separation from the aqueous fluid of a water miscible polymeric KHI, such
as a water miscible synthetic polymer, comprised, for example, in a KHI formulation. The
organic compound may be configured to have, at the most, limited solubility in water. The
organic compound, e.g. heptanoic acid, may have a miscibility with water (by mass) of less than
10%, 8%, 6%, 4%, 2%, 1%, 0. 5 %, 0.3%, 0.2%, 0.1% or O.05%. Where an organic compound is
of limited solubility in water, less of the organic compound may be lost to the aqueous fluid.
This means the aqueous fluid may be contaminated by the organic compound to a reduced
extent. In addition an organic compound of limited solubility in water may be more liable to
form a liquid phase apart from the aqueous fluid; as described below such phase separation may
aid removal of the KHI. The aqueous fluid may be a substantially polar phase. The liquid phase
comprising the organic compound may be a substantially non-polar phase and may be
substantially non-aqueous.
[0010]       The organic compound is understood to displace water dissolved KHI and thereby
cause separation of the KHI from the aqueous fluid. More specifically at least a part of the KHI
may transfer from the aqueous fluid to the organic compound. The structure of the organic
compound, i.e. with regard to its C-H bond comprising hydrophobic tail and carboxyl group
comprising hydrophilic head, may be similar to the structure of the KHI. Thus the organic
compound may interact with water in a similar fashion to the KHI such as to favour
displacement of the KHI from the aqueous fluid to the organic compound. The organic
compound, e.g. heptanoic acid, may be operative to remove more than 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%,
92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% of KHI, such as PVCap, present in aqueous fluid
from the aqueous fluid.
[0011]       The method may further comprise the step of removing at least a part of the KHI
from the mass of aqueous fluid. The step of removing at least a part of the KHI may be carried
out after the step of adding the organic compound to the mass of aqueous fluid. Where the KHI
is comprised at least in part in a second liquid phase (i.e. a phase apart from the aqueous fluid),
the removal step may comprise at least one of: gravity separation; liquid-liquid coalescing

                                                  -r
separation; and centrifugal separation. The removal step may therefore be a physical rather than
chemical removal step involving physical separation of at least a part of the KHI from the
aqueous fluid. On account of a difference in density between the first, aqueous phase and the
second KHI comprising phase, the two phases can be expected to be readily separable from each
other. The thus treated mass of aqueous fluid may now be used with the risk of adverse
consequences arising from the presence of KHI being at least reduced. For example and where
the mass of aqueous fluid is subject thereafter to known treatment approaches, such as MEG or
methanol regeneration, such known treatment approaches can be followed with a reduced risk of
KHI fouling the treatment apparatus. Where the mass of aqueous fluid is thereafter introduced to
a geological formation, such as in the form of reinjection of produced water into a reservoir,
removal of KHI reduces the risk of blockages occurring. Furthermore where the mass of
aqueous fluid is thereafter disposed of, e.g. overboard, the risk of environmental damage arising
from KHI is reduced.
[0012]       Thereafter the removed KHI may be disposed of by known means, such as
incineration. Disposal of the KHI after its removal from the mass of aqueous fluid may be more
readily and cost effectively accomplished than disposal of a mass of aqueous fluid, such as
produced water, comprising the KHI.
[0013]      According to another approach the method may be used to determine the
concentration of KHI in the mass of aqueous fluid. It may, for example, be important to know
the concentration of KHI to ensure that KHI is being applied in an effective fashion or to ensure
that KHI has been removed, e.g., from produced water ahead of disposal of the produced water.
Furthermore accurate determination of KHI concentration may be required of laboratory tests.
The method according to the invention may therefore further comprise determining a
concentration of KHI in a mass of material, such as in a mass of the second, liquid phase. The
step of determining the concentration of the KHI may therefore be carried out after the step of
removing the KHI from the mass of aqueous fluid. Determining the concentration of KHI may
be accomplished by a known method, such as analysis by InfraRed (IR) spectrometry,
UltraViolet (UV) spectrometry or visual spectrometry. Alternatively the organic compound may
be removed from the separate phase comprising the KHI, e.g. by heating the separate phase or
perhaps heating the separate phase at reduced pressure, such in a partial vacuum, to drive off the
organic compound and leave the KHI behind. The remaining KHI may then be weighed and the
concentration of the KHI in the mass of aqueous fluid may be determined on the basis of
material balance. Alternatively or in addition the method may comprise removing a small
portion of the mass of aqueous fluid comprising the KHI and adding the organic component to

the small portion. More specifically the method may further comprise removing the KHI from
the small portion, e.g., by gravity or centrifugal separation. The step of determining the
concentration of the KHI may be carried out after the step of removing the KHI from the small
portion. Thus the analysis may be carried out on a sample of small volume taken from a large
volume of aqueous fluid comprising the KHI.       The concentration of KHI in the mass of aqueous
fluid may be determined by inference based on the analysis of the small portion of aqueous fluid.
[0014]       KlIs are normally present in low concentrations, such as less than 0.5 mass percent,
in the like of reservoir produced water. Known approaches to determining the concentration of
Kls in such circumstances tend to be problematic. For example such known approaches are
often complex, specific to one form of KHI and inaccurate at low concentrations, such as the
concentration levels seen in produced water. The approach to concentration determination
according to the present invention may be simpler, more accurate and more reliable than known
approaches, in particular where the concentration levels are low. The approach according to the
present invention may provide for concentration determination at lower levels of concentration,
such as below 0.25 mass percent.
[0015]       The organic compound may comprise a long hydrophobic tail and a short hydrophilic
head. The organic compound may thus be of comparatively low miscibility with water on
account of the presence of the short hydrophilic head and long hydrophobic tail. As mentioned
above, the organic compound may have a structure such that its behaviour mimics the behaviour
of the KHI to be displaced from the mass of aqueous fluid. The hydrophobic tail may comprise
at least four, five or six carbon atoms with each carbon atom forming a C-H bond. The organic
compound may comprise no more than one carboxyl group. The carboxyl group may be
terminal to the organic compound.
[0016]       The organic compound may be a carboxylic acid. The organic compound may
therefore have the general formula R-COOH, where R is a monovalent functional group. More
specifically the R group may comprise at least one of: an alkyl group (in the form of single
bonded straight chain and branched isomers); an allyl group; a cyclic group (i.e. comprising
cyclic single bonded carbon atoms); and a benzyl group. The organic compound may be a fatty
acid and more specifically a saturated or an unsaturated fatty acid. Higher molecular weight
carboxylic acids, such as pentanoic acid and higher, have been found to be effective at displacing
KHI.   Generally KHI displacement has been found to improve as the carbon number increases.
A significant improvement in displacement has been observed with a carbon number of five and
above. Furthermore an increase in carbon number may provide for a decrease in volatility and

reduced solubility in the aqueous fluid; such properties are desirable for utility of the present
invention. The carbon number of the carboxylic acid may be at least five, six, seven or eight.
Alternatively or in addition the carbon number of the carboxylic acid may be no more than 13,
12, 11 or 10. Carboxylic acids with a carbon number of 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 may have very low
miscibility with water or be almost immiscible with water, e.g. less than about 5% miscibility by
mass. In addition carboxylic acids with a carbon number of 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 may displace more
than 70% of a KHI such as PVCap from the aqueous fluid. Carboxylic acids with higher carbon
numbers, e.g. with a carbon number of ten or more, may be used. However use of such higher
carbon number carboxylic acids may be less favoured when the carboxylic acids are solid, such
as under standard conditions. The carbon number of the carboxylic acid may therefore be no
more than twelve, eleven, ten or nine.
[0017]       The method may further comprise adding a second organic compound to the mass of
aqueous fluid, the second organic compound being of lower density than the first organic
compound (i.e. the organic compound discussed hereinabove). Adding a second organic
compound of lower density than the first organic compound may aid separation into two phases
and with substantially no reduction in movement of KHI from the phase constituted by the mass
of aqueous fluid to the phase constituted by the first organic compound. For example gravity
separation into two separate phases may be quicker when the second organic compound is
present. The second organic compound may be miscible with the first organic compound. After
addition to the mass of aqueous fluid the first and second organic compounds may therefore
together form a separate phase with thus formed phase being of lower density than a phase
formed by the first organic compound alone. The second organic compound may be
substantially hydrophobic. The KHI may be substantially immiscible in the second organic
compound. The second organic compound may be a hydrocarbon. The second organic
compound may have a carbon number no more than a carbon number of the first organic
compound. A carbon number of the second organic compound may be greater than four and less
than eleven. The second organic compound may comprise an alkane, such as heptane. The
second organic compound may comprise a plurality, i.e. a mixture, of different organic
compounds of the form presently described.
[0018]       The density of the second organic compound may be at least substantially 0.5, 0.6 or
0.7 grams per millilitre. Alternatively or in addition the density of the second organic compound
may be no more than substantially 0.9, 0.8 or 0.7 grams per millilitre. A density of the second
organic compound between substantially 0.6 grams per millilitre and substantially 0.8 grams per
millilitre has been found advantageous in certain circumstances such as where a density of the

first organic compound is between substantially 0.8 grams per millilitre and substantially 1.0
gram per millilitre. The density of the first organic compound may be at least substantially 0.8
or 0.9 grams per millilitre. Alternatively or in addition the density of the first organic compound
may be no more than substantially 1.05 or 0.95 grams per millilitre.
[0019]       A treatment fluid may comprise no more than substantially 99% volume, 95%
volume, 90% volume, 85% volume, 80% volume, 7 5% volume, 7 0% volume, 60% volume, 50%
volume, 40% volume, 30% volume, 20% volume, 10% volume, 5% volume or 1% volume of the
second organic compound. The treatment fluid may comprise at least substantially 1% volume,
5% volume, 10% volume, 2 0% volume, 3 0% volume, 4 0% volume, 50% volume, 6 0% volume,
7 0%  volume, 7 5% volume, 8 0% volume, 8 5% volume, 9 0% volume or        9 9 % volume   of the
second organic compound. A treatment fluid comprising the first organic compound to at least
substantially 20% volume and the second organic compound up to substantially 80% volume has
been found under certain circumstances to provide for effective movement of KII from the
phase constituted by the mass of aqueous fluid to the phase constituted by the first organic
compound. Concentrations of the first organic compound below substantially 20% volume have
been found under certain circumstances to be less effective at moving KII from the phase
constituted by the mass of aqueous fluid. This may be because the KHI dissolves less readily in
such a smaller volume of the first organic compound.
[0020]       The second organic compound may be added to the mass of aqueous fluid at
substantially a same time and perhaps along with the first organic compound. The first and
second organic compounds may therefore be mixed and stored as a mixture before being added
to the mass of aqueous fluid. Alternatively or in addition the second organic compound may be
added following addition of the first organic compound and where the first organic compound
either comprises the second organic compound or lacks the first organic compound. More
specifically the second organic compound may be added to the phase constituted by the mass of
aqueous fluid following separation into two phases after addition of the first organic compound.
Furthermore the second organic compound may be added to the phase constituted by the mass of
aqueous fluid after physical separation of the two phases as described elsewhere herein. The
subsequent addition of the second organic compound may provide for removal of at least one of
remaining KII and remaining first organic compound, such as a cloudy micro-droplet
suspension of KII and the first organic compound. The method may further comprise a second
removal step after addition of the second organic compound. Such a second removal step may
comprise physical separation as described above with reference to the first removal step.

                                                   0
[0021]       The mass of aqueous fluid before treatment may comprise a KII formulation. A
KII formulation may comprise at least one KII compound, such as a polymeric KII and at
least one further compound which enhances the performance or solubility of the KII compound.
The performance enhancing compounds may comprise at least one organic salt, such as a
quaternary ammonium salt. Alternatively or in addition the KHI formulation may comprise a
water miscible polymer solvent such as a low molecular weight alcohol, e.g. methanol, ethanol
or propanol, a glycol, e.g. monoethylene glycol (MEG) or a glycol ether, e.g. ethylene glycol
monobutyl ether (EGBE) or 2-butoxyethanol.
[0022]       The at least one KHI may comprise a polymeric KIl. As will be familiar to the
notionally skilled person a KIl prevents or at least limits the nucleation and/or growth of gas
hydrate crystals. The at least one KIl may, typically, be water miscible. The at least one KHI
may be organic. Alternatively or in addition the at least one KIl may comprise a compound
selected from the group consisting of poly(vinylcaprolactam) (PVCap), polyvinylpyrrolidone,
poly(vinylvalerolactam), poly(vinylazacyclooctanone), co-polymers of vinylpyrrolidone and
vinylcaprolactam, poly(N-methyl-N-vinylacetamide), co-polymers of N-methyl-N
vinylacetamide and acryloyl piperidine, co-polymers of N-methyl-N-vinylacetamide and
isopropyl methacrylamide, co-polymers of N-methyl-N-vinylacetamide and methacryloyl
pyrrolidine, and combinations thereof. Alternatively or in addition the at least one KIl may
comprise a compound selected from the group consisting of copolymers of acryloyl pyrrolidine
and N-methyl-N-vinylacetamide, derivatives and mixtures thereof.
[0023]      Alternatively or in addition the at least one KIl may comprise acrylamide/maleimide
co-polymers such as dimethylacrylamide (DMAM) co-polymerized with, for example,
maleimide (ME), ethyl maleimide (EME), propyl maleimide (PME), and butyl maleimide
(BME). Alternatively or in addition the at least one KIl may comprise acrylamide/maleimide
co-polymers such as DMAM/methyl maleimide (DMAM/MME), and DMAM/cyclohexyl
maleimide (DMAM/CHME), N-vinyl amide/maleimide co-polymers such as N-methyl-N
vinylacetamide/ethyl maleimide (VIMA/EME), and lactam maleimide co-polymers such as
vinylcaprolactam ethylmaleimide (VCap/EME). Alternatively or in addition the at least one KHI
may comprise polymers such as polyvinyl alcohols and derivatives thereof, polyamines and
derivatives thereof, polycaprolactams and derivatives thereof, polymers and co-polymers of
maleimides, acrylamides and mixtures thereof.
[0024]       The mass of aqueous fluid may further comprise at least one thermodynamic hydrate
inhibitor (THI), such as MEG. Such a THI may be comprised in the mass of aqueous fluid

further to the like of MEG used as a KHI polymer solvent. THIs and KHIs may both be
employed to address the problem of gas hydrate formation. Depending on circumstances as
much THI as produced water or perhaps even more THI may be used in oil production processes.
The use of such significant volumes of THI imposes a considerable capital expenditure and
operational expenditure burden with regard to both introduction of THI to the process and
separation of THI from the produced oil. A comparatively small amount of KHI may provide for
a significant reduction in the amount of a THI, such as MEG, required to provide a desired
hydrate formation inhibition effect. For example it has been found that as little as 1% KHI can
provide for a 20 to 40 weight percent reduction in MEG used. However and as mentioned above
the use of KHI in addition to THI presents problems with regard to, for example, the adverse
impact of the KHI on: the environment; processing equipment, such as MEG regeneration units;
and downhole formations where there is reinjection of produced water. The present invention
addresses such problems by removing KHI and may thereby provide for the use of KHI in
combination with THI to reduce significantly the volume of THI used in oil or gas production
processes.
[0025]       The method according to the present invention may form part of an oil or gas
production or exploration process. Therefore according to a second aspect of the present
invention there is provided an oil or gas production or exploration method comprising the
method according to the first aspect of the present invention.
[0026]       More specifically the method may further comprise introducing at least one KHI to a
conduit, such as a flow line comprised in an oil or gas production or exploration facility which is
susceptible to gas hydrate formation. The at least one KHI may disperse in a mass of aqueous
fluid, such as produced water, present in the oil or gas production or exploration facility. The
method may further comprise introducing the organic compound at processing apparatus
comprised in the oil or gas production or exploration facility. The processing apparatus may, for
example, comprise a separator and the organic compound may be introduced upstream or
preferably downstream of the separator.
[0027]       The oil or gas production or exploration method may further comprise a KHI
removal step as described with reference to the first aspect of the present invention. The KHI
removal step may be performed by a separation process, which may be performed upstream of a
regeneration process described further below. Oil or gas production or exploration facilities
normally comprise a separator which is operative to separate well fluids into gaseous and liquid
components. Two phase separators are often employed in gas recovery and three phase

separators are often employed in oil recovery. More specifically the separator is normally
operative to separate gaseous components and liquid components in gas recovery and to separate
gaseous components, oil and water in oil recovery. The liquid component in two phase
separation and the water component in three phase separation may comprise two phases, namely
a first aqueous phase and a second liquid phase comprising the organic compound and the KHI.
The KHI removal step may be performed in a primary separator, e.g. a two or three phase
separator, configured to further separate the first and second liquid phases from each other.
Alternatively or in addition the KHI removal step may be performed in a KHI separator
operative downstream of the primary separator. Furthermore the organic compound may be
introduced to the mass of aqueous fluid, e.g. the liquid component or water component, after
primary separation.
[0028]       The oil or gas production or exploration method may yet further comprise disposal of
the first aqueous phase after the KHI removal step. Disposal might, for example, comprise
dumping the first aqueous phase overboard. Alternatively or in addition the oil or gas production
or exploration method may yet further comprise reinjection of the first aqueous phase after the
KI    removal step. Disposal normally requires higher purity of the first aqueous phase than
reinjection. In methods comprising such further steps KI      may be substantially the only hydrate
inhibitor employed. In methods comprising the latter step, i.e. reinjection, the aqueous fluid may
comprise condensed water and perhaps also formation water. Alternatively or in addition the
first aqueous phase after separation from the second KHI comprising phase may be subject to a
THI regeneration process where a THI has been introduced to the oil or gas production or
exploration facility. After primary separation the THI is normally comprised in the liquid
component in two phase separation and in the water component in three phase separation. After
the KHI removal step the THI is normally comprised in the first aqueous phase. The oil or gas
production or exploration facility may therefore comprise THI regeneration apparatus, such as a
MEG regeneration unit, which is operative on the first aqueous phase. As will be familiar to the
notionally skilled reader, THI regeneration apparatus is operative to transform rich, i.e.
contaminated, THI to lean, i.e. clean, THI. Rich THI comprises water which is driven off by the
regeneration apparatus heating the rich THI. The regeneration apparatus may further provide for
removal of salt comprised in the rich THI. Salt laden THI is normally more problematic in oil
production than gas production on account of the former involving recovery of salt laden
produced water along with the oil. Rich THI may also comprise small amounts of hydrocarbons
present on account of partial or incomplete separation. The regeneration apparatus may
therefore further comprise hydrocarbon removal apparatus which is operative to remove

hydrocarbons, e.g. in the form of vapour or liquid, from the rich THI. The hydrocarbon removal
apparatus may be operative on rich THI before heating of the rich THI to drive off the water.
The hydrocarbon removal apparatus may, for example, be a flash vessel. The oil or gas
production or exploration method may therefore further comprise a THI regeneration process
which is operative to transform used THI. In summary THI regeneration may be carried out with
a reduced risk of fouling of regeneration apparatus on account of prior removal of KHI.
[0029]       The aforegoing description is concerned primarily with oil or gas production.
Nevertheless the present invention may also be applicable in exploration operations and in
particular in well testing operations. The oil or gas production or exploration method may
therefore comprise a well testing method. As will be familiar to the notionally skilled reader,
well testing involves extracting hydrocarbon fluids from test wells to help determine the
characteristics of a reservoir and thereby determine prospects for hydrocarbon recovery from the
reservoir. Normally well testing facilities comprise a mobile two or three phase separator which
is operative on produced well fluids. Water separated by the separator is normally disposed
overboard because there is no or limited facility for reinjection, treatment or storage. A THI,
which is typically methanol, is normally used to address hydrate formation. Environmental
considerations impose limits on the amount of methanol that can be used. Likewise
environmental considerations normally preclude or limit the use of KHIs. However the
capability of the present invention to remove KHI provides for the use of KHI in combination
with methanol to reduce significantly the volume of methanol used during well testing. The well
testing method may therefore comprise the method of treating aqueous fluid and the step of
removing KHI from the treated aqueous fluid as described above with reference to the first
aspect of the present invention. More specifically the well testing method may comprise
producing oil or gas from a test well, adding the organic compound to at least one of formation
and condensed water from the test well and removing a second KHI comprising phase from a
first aqueous phase after addition of the organic compound. The first aqueous phase may
comprise THI, e.g. methanol, of a volume lower than that required had no KHI been present.
The well testing method may further comprise disposing of the first aqueous phase, e.g. by
disposal overboard. Further embodiments of the second aspect of the present invention may
comprise one or more features of the first aspect of the present invention.
[0030]       According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided apparatus for
treating aqueous fluid, the apparatus comprising a vessel, such as a flow line comprised in an oil
or gas production or exploration facility, containing a mass of aqueous fluid comprising at least
one Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI), and an arrangement configured to introduce an organic

compound to the mass of aqueous fluid contained in the vessel, the organic compound
comprising a hydrophobic tail and a hydrophilic head, the hydrophobic tail comprising at least
one C-H bond and the hydrophilic head comprising a carboxyl (-COOH) group.
[0031]      The apparatus for treating aqueous fluid may further comprise a separator, such as a
two or three phase separator as described above. Alternatively or in addition the apparatus for
treating aqueous fluid may further comprise THI regeneration apparatus as described above.
Furthermore the THI regeneration apparatus may be configured to add the organic compound to
the mass of aqueous fluid, e.g. to the liquid component from a two phase separator or to the
water component from a three phase separator, before the aqueous fluid is subject to regeneration
of THI, e.g. by heating to drive off water. THI regeneration apparatus may further comprise a
KII separator which is operative after addition of the organic compound to separate a first
aqueous phase and a second liquid phase from each other, the second liquid phase comprising
the organic compound and the KII.
[0032]      The apparatus may further comprise a second KII separator which is operative after
addition of a second organic compound of a form described elsewhere herein to separate a first
aqueous phase and a second liquid phase from each other, the second liquid phase comprising
the KII. The second organic compound may therefore be operative to remove KII remaining
after a primary removal and separation process involving addition of the first organic compound
with the second KII separator providing for physical separation of the two phases formed
following addition of the second organic compound.
[0033]      Further embodiments of the third aspect of the present invention may comprise one
or more features of the first or second aspect of the present invention.
[0034]      According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided THI
regeneration apparatus comprising apparatus for treating aqueous fluid according to the third
aspect of the present invention. Embodiments of the fourth aspect of the present invention may
comprise one or more features of any previous aspect of the present invention.
[0035]      According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
treating aqueous fluid, the method comprising adding an organic compound to a mass of aqueous
fluid comprising a water miscible polymer, such as a water miscible synthetic polymer, the
organic compound comprising a hydrophobic tail and a hydrophilic head, the hydrophobic tail
comprising at least one C-H bond and the hydrophilic head comprising a carboxyl (-COOH)

group. Embodiments of the further aspect of the present invention may comprise one or more
features of any previous aspect of the present invention.
[0036]        The present inventors have appreciated the invention as hitherto described to be of
wider applicability. The inventors have recognised that PVCap is water miscible at low
temperature with some synthetic polymers in KHI formulations having a cloud point as low as
35 degrees Celsius. It is therefore a further object for the present invention to provide a method
of treating aqueous fluid with a compound comprising a polymer, such as at least one KHI. It is
a yet further object for the present invention to provide aqueous fluid treatment apparatus which
is configured to treat aqueous fluid with a compound comprising a polymer, such as at least one
KHI.
[0037]        According to a fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
treating aqueous fluid, the method comprising adding a composition comprising an organic
compound and at least one Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI) to a mass of aqueous fluid, the
organic compound being one of: an alcohol having a carbon number of at least four; and a
carboxylic acid.
[0038]        In use the mass of aqueous fluid, which may, for example, be aqueous fluid present
in a dry gas production operation, is treated by addition of the composition. The composition
may be added, for example, at a processing facility, such as at the wellhead. The organic
compound may be operative as a carrier for the KHI. The KHI may be a water miscible
polymeric KHI, such as a water miscible synthetic polymer. The organic compound may
provide for the composition to form a phase apart from the mass of aqueous fluid whereby
substantially none or at least little of the KHI moves to the phase constituted by the mass of
aqueous fluid. Nonetheless the KHI comprised in the composition may be operative to prevent
or at least reduce hydrate formation. After addition of the composition to the mass of aqueous
fluid, the composition may disperse in the mass of aqueous fluid as the mass of aqueous fluid is,
for example, conveyed through a pipeline. The nature of the organic compound is such that the
organic compound later forms a phase apart from the mass of aqueous fluid, for example, during
a separation phase involving settlement, with the KHI being substantially retained in the phase
constituted by the organic compound. As described further below, the organic compound may
provide for ease of recovery of the KHI whereby the KHI may be re-used. Furthermore and in
dry gas processes in which there is higher salinity, such as up to 15 wt%, the at least one KHI
may be less liable to precipitate compared with approaches involving the use of known polymer
solvents. This is because the at least one KHI is retained in the phase constituted by the organic

                                                 1 -r
compound of the present invention. Salt water, which is normally formation water, may be used
to prevent hydrates.
[0039]       Where an organic compound is of limited solubility in water, less of the organic
compound may be lost to the aqueous fluid. This means the aqueous fluid may be contaminated
by the organic compound to a reduced extent. In addition an organic compound of limited
solubility in water may be more liable to form a phase apart from the aqueous fluid. The
aqueous fluid may be a substantially polar phase. The phase comprising the organic compound
and the KHI may be a substantially non-polar phase and may be substantially non-aqueous.
[0040]       The organic compound is understood to prevent or at least reduce movement of the
KHI from the composition to the phase constituted by the mass of aqueous fluid. The structure
of the organic compound, i.e. with regard to its C-H bond comprising hydrophobic tail and
hydrophilic head, may be similar to the structure of the KHI. Thus the organic compound may
interact with water in a similar fashion to the KHI such as to favour retention of the KHI in the
phase constituted by the composition. The organic compound may be operative to prevent the
loss to the phase constituted by the aqueous fluid of more than 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%,
94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% of KHI, such as PVCap, comprised in the composition.
[0041]       The method may further comprise the step of removing the composition from the
mass of aqueous fluid. In view of the KHI and organic compound constituting a second liquid
phase (i.e. a phase apart from the aqueous fluid), the removal step may comprise at least one of:
gravity separation; liquid-liquid coalescing separation; and centrifugal separation. Separation
may take place at a degassing stage. The second liquid phase may rise to the top of the mass of
aqueous fluid or sink to the bottom of the mass of aqueous fluid depending on the relative
densities. The removal step may therefore be a physical rather than chemical removal step and
which involves physical separation of the KHI and the organic compound from the aqueous
fluid. On account of a difference in density between the first, aqueous phase and the second
phase constituted by the composition, the two phases can be expected to be readily separable
from each other. The thus further treated mass of aqueous fluid may now be used with the risk
of adverse consequences arising from the presence of KHI or organic compound being at least
reduced. For example and where the mass of aqueous fluid is subject thereafter to known
treatment approaches, such as MEG or methanol regeneration, such known treatment approaches
can be followed with a reduced risk of KHI fouling the treatment apparatus.
[0042]       Thereafter the removed composition may be treated. More specifically treatment
may comprise separation of the KHI and the organic compound. According to an approach the

organic compound may be driven off, for example, by heating the removed composition. The
remaining KHI may then be re-used or stored for later re-use. Recovery of the KHI in this
fashion may be advantageous in view of the normally high cost of KHI.
[0043]       Alternatively the removed composition may be re-used, for example according to the
present invention, or stored for later re-use. More specifically and where the removed
composition comprises light hydrocarbons, for example from wet gas, the removed composition
may be heated moderately whereby the light hydrocarbons are driven off but the organic
compound is substantially left. The thus treated composition may then be re-used or stored.
[0044]       Alternatively at least one of the removed composition, the removed organic
compound and the removed KHI may be disposed of by known means, such as incineration.
Disposal after removal may be more readily and cost effectively accomplished than disposal of a
mass of aqueous fluid with the composition still present.
[0045]        Where the organic compound is an alcohol, the organic compound may comprise no
more than one hydroxyl (-OH) group. Where the organic compound is a carboxylic acid, the
organic compound may comprise no more than one carboxyl (-COOH) group. The hydroxyl
group or carboxyl group may be terminal to the organic compound.
[0046]        In an embodiment the organic compound may be an alcohol having a carbon number
of at least four. The organic compound may therefore have the general formula R-OH, where R
has the formula CnHm. More specifically the R group may comprise at least one of: an alkyl
group (in the form of single bonded straight chain and branched isomers); an allyl group; a cyclic
group (i.e. comprising cyclic single bonded carbon atoms); and a benzyl group. Higher
molecular weight alcohols, such as butanol and higher, have been found to be effective at
retaining KHI. Generally KHI retention has been found to improve as the carbon number
increases. A significant improvement in retention has been observed with a carbon number of
five and above. Furthermore an increase in carbon number may provide for a decrease in
volatility and reduced solubility in the aqueous fluid; such properties are desirable for utility of
the present invention. The carbon number of the alcohol may be at least five, six, seven or eight.
Alternatively or in addition the carbon number of the alcohol may be no more than twelve,
eleven or ten. Alcohols with a carbon number of six, seven or eight may have very low
miscibility with water or be almost immiscible with water, e.g. less than about 2% miscibility by
mass. In addition alcohols with a carbon number of six, seven or eight may retain more than
90% of a KHI such as PVCap in the composition. Alcohols with yet higher carbon numbers, e.g.
with a carbon number of nine or more, may be used. However use of such higher carbon number

alcohols may be less favoured when the alcohols are solid under standard conditions. The
carbon number of the alcohol may therefore be no more than eleven, ten, nine or eight.
[0047]        In an embodiment the organic compound may be a carboxylic acid. Further features
of a carboxylic acid are defined above but in the context of removal of KHI whereas the present
context relates to retention of KHI in the phase constituted by the composition. Generally KHI
retention has been found to improve as the carbon number increases. A significant improvement
in retention has been observed with a carbon number of five and above. Furthermore an increase
in carbon number may provide for a decrease in volatility and reduced solubility in the aqueous
fluid; such properties are desirable for utility of the present invention.
[0048]        The method may further comprise adding a second organic compound to the mass of
aqueous fluid, the second organic compound being of lower density than the first organic
compound (i.e. the organic compound discussed hereinabove). Further features of the present
step are defined above but in the context of removal of KHI whereas the present context relates
to retention of KHI in the phase constituted by the first organic compound. The density of the
first organic compound may be at least 0.7, 0.8 or 0.9 grams per millilitre. Alternatively or in
addition the density of the first organic compound may be no more than 1.05, 0.95 or 0.9 grams
per millilitre. Concentrations of the first organic compound below 20% volume and, under
certain circumstances, below 50% volume have been found to be less effective at retaining KHI.
This may be because the KHI dissolves less readily in such a smaller volume of the first organic
compound.
[0049]        The second organic compound may be added to the mass of aqueous fluid at
substantially the same time and perhaps along with the first organic compound. The second
organic compound may therefore be comprised in the composition comprising the KHI before
addition of the composition to the mass of aqueous fluid. Alternatively or in addition the second
organic compound may be added following addition of the first organic compound and where the
composition either comprises the second organic compound or lacks the second organic
compound. More specifically the second organic compound may be added to the mass of
aqueous fluid following separation into two phases after addition of the composition.
Furthermore the second organic compound may be added to the phase constituted by the mass of
aqueous fluid after physical separation of the two phases as described elsewhere herein. The
subsequent addition of the second organic compound may provide for removal of whatever small
amount of KHI or first organic compound might have moved from the composition to the mass
of aqueous fluid to form the like of a cloudy micro-droplet suspension of KHI and/or the first

                                                  I /
organic compound. The method may further comprise a second removal step after addition of
the second organic compound. Such a second removal step may comprise physical separation as
described above with reference to the first removal step.
[0050]       The composition may comprise a KHI formulation. Features of the KHI formulation
are defined above.
[0051]       The mass of aqueous fluid may further comprise at least one thermodynamic hydrate
inhibitor (THI), such as MEG. THIs and KHIs may both be employed to address the problem of
gas hydrate formation. Depending on circumstances as much THI as produced water or perhaps
even more THI may be used in production processes. The use of such significant volumes of
THI imposes a considerable capital expenditure and operational expenditure burden with regard
to both introduction of THI to the process and separation of THI from water. Furthermore
partition of some THIs, such as methanol, in hydrocarbon phases may cause significant
operational problems and give rise to financial penalties. A comparatively small amount of KHI
may provide for a significant reduction in the amount of a THI, such as MEG, required to
provide a desired hydrate formation inhibition effect. For example it has been found that as little
as 1% KHI can provide for a 20 to 40 weight percent reduction in MEG used. However and as
mentioned above the use of KHI in addition to THI presents problems with regard to, for
example, the adverse impact of the KHI on: the environment; processing equipment, such as
MEG regeneration units; surface equipment which is operating in high ambient temperatures;
and downhole formations where there is reinjection of produced water. The present invention
addresses such problems by retaining the KHI in a non-aqueous phase such as the phase
constituted by the organic compound whilst reducing fouling problems and providing for the use
of KHI in combination with THI to reduce significantly the volume of THI used in oil or gas
production processes.
[0052]       Further embodiments of the fifth aspect of the present invention may comprise one or
more features of any previous aspect of the present invention.
[0053]       The method according to the present invention may form part of an oil or gas
production or exploration process. Therefore according to a sixth aspect of the present invention
there is provided an oil or gas production or exploration method comprising the method
according to the fifth aspect of the present invention. Further embodiments of the sixth aspect of
the present invention may comprise one or more features of any previous aspect of the present
invention.

                                                  10
[0054]       More specifically the method may further comprise introducing the composition to a
conduit, such as a flow line comprised in an oil or gas production or exploration facility, which is
susceptible to gas hydrate formation. The composition may disperse in a mass of aqueous fluid,
such as produced water, present in the oil or gas production or exploration facility. The oil or
gas production or exploration method may further comprise a composition removal step as
described with reference to the fifth aspect of the present invention.
[0055]       The present inventors have appreciated the addition of the composition to be of wider
applicability than hitherto described. The present inventors have appreciated that many KHIs are
normally not used for injection at hot locations such as the wellhead or downhole on account of
the KHIs being liable to precipitate and cause fouling. However addition of KHI in the form of a
composition comprising at least one KHI and the organic compound according to the invention
may retain the KHI in the phase constituted by the organic compound and thereby reduce the
likelihood of fouling by the KHI. The use of Kls at hot locations may therefore now be a
practicable approach. An oil or gas production or exploration method according to the present
invention may comprise adding the composition at a location of elevated temperature such as at
the wellhead or downhole. In another application the composition may be added where there is
surface equipment, such as pump suction strainers, that is operating at a relatively high ambient
temperature and which otherwise is liable to fouling if KHI is used in the absence of the organic
compound.
[0056]       Some reservoirs may be or may become saline. For example near end of life
reservoirs in which there is upward movement of gas-water contact may see the production of
salt laden formation water. Known approaches to the application of Kls may encounter the
problem of lack of dissolution of the KHI in saline fluids and fouling causing KHI precipitation.
The present invention on the other hand may provide for the dispersal in the saline fluid of the
KHI and the organic compound which retains the KHI and such as to provide for hydrate
formation inhibition. Proper operation of the KHI may depend on the balance between the salt
and gas condensate present. The present invention may therefore provide an inhibitory effect
during the lifetime of a gas reservoir with the KHI containing composition providing for
inhibition during earlier life when the produced water is mainly composed of condensed water
and also during later life when the produced water comprises saline formation water.
[0057]       The oil or gas production or exploration method may be a gas production or
exploration method. Hydrocarbons in liquid or gaseous form which are the subject of the present
method may be contained in on-shore or off-shore reservoirs. More specifically the oil or gas

                                                  I[9/
production or exploration method may be a natural gas production or exploration method, such
as an associated or non-associated conventional natural gas production or exploration method, or
an unconventional gas, such as shale gas, production or exploration method. By way of further
examples the natural gas production or exploration method may involve gas contained in gas
hydrate reservoirs or coal-bed methane where methane is desorbed/produced by various
techniques, e.g., depressurisation or injection of carbon dioxide.
[0058]      According to one application the oil or gas production or exploration method may be
one of a dry natural gas production or exploration method and a lean natural gas production or
exploration method. There is liable to be no or little loss of the organic compound to the mass of
aqueous fluid on account of dry gas comprising no liquid hydrocarbons or a low level of liquid
hydrocarbon content. The composition may therefore be separated and removed from the mass
of aqueous fluid and re-used as described above with there being no or little need to top-up the
removed composition.
[0059]      According to another application the oil or gas production or exploration method
may be a wet gas production or exploration method. More specifically the organic compound
may be less volatile than at least one hydrocarbon comprised in the wet gas. Accordingly there
may be no or little loss of the organic compound to the mass of aqueous fluid on account of the
difference in volatility. Alternatively or in addition the higher volatility of the at least one
hydrocarbon comprised in the wet gas may provide for ease of subsequent treatment of the
removed composition. After separation and removal of the phase constituted by the composition
from the phase constituted by the mass of aqueous fluid, the removed composition may comprise
whatever of the more volatile hydrocarbon has moved from the mass of aqueous fluid. The
method may therefore further comprise driving off the more volatile hydrocarbon from the
removed composition, for example, by heating the removed composition. The thus treated
composition may therefore comprise the KII and the organic compound and be in a form which
is more suitable for re-use. The method may therefore further comprise selecting a carbon
number of the organic compound in dependence on a volatility of at least one already present
hydrocarbon or of at least one hydrocarbon introduced as part of the present method.
[0060]      According to yet another application the oil or gas production or exploration method
may comprise separation of well fluids into gaseous and liquid components by way of a
separator. Before separation liquid hydrocarbons may comprise gas condensate in wet gas or oil
and gas condensate in mixed oil and gas well fluids. After separation the liquid component may
be conveyed separately from the gaseous component. The gaseous component may be conveyed

by way of a pipeline. Water is normally present in the gaseous component and therefore
according to known practice steps may be taken to prevent hydrate formation in the gas pipeline.
One approach involves drying the gaseous component to remove the water. Another approach
involves adding the like of methanol to the gaseous component. The present invention, i.e. the
addition of a composition comprising a KHI and the organic compound to the gaseous
component, may provide an alternative to the above known approaches or may at least reduce
reliance on such known approaches. The method according to the present invention may
therefore comprise separating at least one liquid hydrocarbon from the mass of aqueous fluid, for
example by way of a separator, before the step of adding the composition to the mass of aqueous
fluid. The composition may be added to the gaseous component.
[0061]       The oil or gas production or exploration method may further comprise disposal of the
first aqueous phase after removal of the composition. Disposal might, for example, comprise
dumping the first aqueous phase overboard. Alternatively or in addition the oil or gas production
or exploration method may further comprise reinjection of the first aqueous phase after removal
of the composition. Disposal normally requires higher purity of the first aqueous phase than
reinjection. In methods comprising such further steps KHI may be substantially the only hydrate
inhibitor employed. In methods comprising the latter step, i.e. reinjection, the aqueous fluid may
comprise condensed water and perhaps also formation water.
[0062]       The composition removal step may be performed upstream of a regeneration process
as will now be described further. The first aqueous phase after separation from the second KHI
comprising phase may be subject to a THI regeneration process where a THI has been introduced
to the oil or gas production or exploration facility. After conventional primary separation the
THI is normally comprised in the water containing liquid component in two phase separation and
in the water component in three phase separation. After the composition removal step the THI is
normally comprised in the first aqueous phase. The oil or gas production or exploration facility
may therefore comprise THI regeneration apparatus, such as a MEG regeneration unit, which is
operative on the first aqueous phase. Further features of THI regeneration apparatus are
described above. Further embodiments of the sixth aspect of the present invention may comprise
one or more features of any previous aspect of the present invention.
[0063]       According to a seventh of the present invention there is provided apparatus for
treating aqueous fluid, the apparatus comprising a vessel, such as a flow line comprised in an oil
or gas production or exploration facility, containing a mass of aqueous fluid, and an arrangement
configured to introduce a composition to the mass of aqueous fluid contained in the vessel, the

composition comprising at least one Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI) and an organic compound,
the organic compound being one of: an alcohol having a carbon number of at least four; and a
carboxylic acid.
[0064]        The apparatus for treating aqueous fluid may further comprise a main separator, such
as a two or three phase separator as described above. Alternatively or in addition the apparatus
for treating aqueous fluid may further comprise THI regeneration apparatus as described above.
Furthermore the THI regeneration apparatus may be configured to remove the composition from
the mass of aqueous fluid before the aqueous fluid is subject to regeneration of THI, e.g. by
heating to drive off water. THI regeneration apparatus may further comprise a KHI separator
which is operative to separate a first aqueous phase and a second liquid phase from each other,
the second liquid phase comprising the organic compound and the KHI.
[0065]        The apparatus may further comprise a second, KHI separator which is operative after
addition of a second organic compound of a form described elsewhere herein to separate a first
aqueous phase and a second liquid phase from each other, the second liquid phase comprising
the KHI and the second organic compound. The apparatus may be configured to add the second
organic compound at or after the main separator and perhaps after the first KHI separator. The
second organic compound may therefore be operative to provide for removal of KHI and perhaps
also the first organic compound remaining after a primary composition removal and separation
process, with the second, KHI separator providing for physical separation of the two phases
formed following addition of the second organic compound. Apparatus according to the
invention may be located entirely on-shore. Alternatively at least one component of apparatus
according to the invention may be located off-shore and perhaps subsea. Apparatus according to
the invention may be located entirely off-shore and perhaps subsea. Alternatively at least one
component of apparatus according to the invention may be located on-shore. For example the
arrangement configured to introduce the composition to the mass of aqueous fluid contained in
the vessel may be located off-shore and the main separator and the THI regeneration apparatus
may be located on-shore. Further embodiments of the seventh aspect of the present invention
may comprise one or more features of any previous aspect of the present invention.
[0066]       According to an eighth aspect of the present invention there is provided THI
regeneration apparatus configured to remove a composition comprising at least one KHI and an
organic compound from a mass of aqueous fluid before the aqueous fluid is subject to
regeneration of THI, e.g. by heating to drive off water, the organic compound being one of: an
alcohol having a carbon number of at least four; and a carboxylic acid. THI regeneration

apparatus may comprise a separator which is operative to separate a first aqueous phase and a
second liquid phase from each other, the second liquid phase comprising the organic compound
and the KIl. Embodiments of the eighth aspect of the present invention may comprise one or
more features of any previous aspect of the present invention.
[0067]       According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
treating aqueous fluid, the method comprising adding a composition to a mass of aqueous fluid,
the composition comprising a polymer, such as a water miscible synthetic polymer, and an
organic compound, the organic compound being one of: an alcohol having a carbon number of at
least four; and a carboxylic acid. Embodiments of the further aspect of the present invention
may comprise one or more features of any previous aspect of the present invention.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0068]       The present invention will now be described by way of example only with reference
to the following drawings, of which:
[0069]       Figure 1 shows an oil or gas production facility comprising apparatus according to an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0070]       Figure 2 is a graph showing plots of carboxylic acid carbon number versus a)
miscibility in water by mass and b) effectiveness of removal of PVCap from water;
[0071]       Figure 3 shows a separator arrangement and a MEG regeneration unit comprised in
apparatus according to the present invention;
[0072]       Figure 4 is a diagram which shows the sub-cooling extents of PVCap induced
hydrate crystal growth inhibition where PVCap is applied according to a further embodiment of
the present invention and according to the known approach; and
[0073]       Figure 5 shows a separator arrangement and a MEG regeneration unit comprised in
apparatus according to the further embodiment.
Description of Embodiments
[0074]       An oil or gas production facility 10 is shown in Figure 1. The oil or gas production
facility 10 comprises a reservoir 12 containing reserves of oil and/or gas which is located below
the seabed 14, an offshore platform 16 which is present above the sea surface 18 and well bores
20 which provide for fluid communication between the reservoir 12 and the platform 16. The oil

or gas production facility 10 further comprises an onshore processing facility 22 which is in fluid
communication with the platform 16 by way of a main pipeline 24. In practice the main pipeline
is normally located on or in the seabed 14. However to provide for clarity of illustration the
main pipeline 24 is shown above the sea surface 18. The oil or gas production facility 10 also
comprises a KHI storage tank 26 on the offshore platform 16. The KHI storage tank 26 is in
fluid communication with the platform end of the main pipeline 24 by way of a control valve and
pumping apparatus. In addition the oil or gas production facility 10 comprises a treatment fluid
storage tank 28, which is in fluid communication with the onshore processing facility 22, and a
used KHI polymer storage tank 30, which is in fluid communication with the onshore processing
facility 22.
[0075]       A method according to a first embodiment of the present invention will now be
described with reference to Figure 1. A vendor delivers a KHI formulation to the operator of the
oil or gas production facility 10. The KHI formulation is of known form. For example the KHI
formulation comprises a water miscible polymer such as polyvinylcaprolactam (PVCap) and a
water miscible polymer solvent such as a low molecular weight alcohol, a glycol or a glycol
ether. The water miscible polymer makes up less than half of the KHI formulation with the
remainder comprising the polymer solvent. The operator puts the KHI formulation in the KHI
storage tank 26 on the offshore platform 16. The KHI formulation is introduced to the main
pipeline 24 by way of operation of the control valve and pumping apparatus. Alternatively the
KHI formulation is injected at the wellhead or downhole. The volume and rate of introduction of
KHI formulation are determined in dependence on the extent of gas hydrate formation risk in the
main pipeline and the onshore processing facility 22. A treatment fluid (which constitutes an
organic compound) is stored in the treatment fluid storage tank 28. Further details of the
treatment fluid are provided below. When treatment of produced water is required to remove
KHI polymer present in produced water, treatment fluid is introduced from the treatment fluid
storage tank 28 and added to a mass of produced water (which constitutes a mass of aqueous
fluid) contained in the onshore processing facility 22. The treatment fluid forms a second,
substantially non-polar phase apart from the first, substantially polar phase comprising the
produced water and as it does the structure of the treatment fluid is such as to cause the transfer
of the KHI polymer from the polar phase to the non-polar phase formed by the treatment fluid.
The two phases separate from each other on account of their different densities. Then the
second, substantially non-polar phase is removed from the first, substantially polar phase by
gravity separation, liquid to liquid coalescing separation or centrifugal separation and stored in
the used KHI polymer storage tank 30. The second phase contained in the used KHI polymer

storage tank 30 is then disposed of, e.g. by incineration. The now treated produced water may
then be used or further processed as described below with reference to Figure 3.
[0076]       The treatment fluid will now be described in more detail. The treatment fluid is a
carboxylic acid having the general formula R-COOH, where R is a monovalent functional group.
Higher molecular weight carboxylic acids, such as pentanoic acid and higher, i.e. carboxylic
acids with a carbon number of five or more, have been found to be effective at displacing KHI
polymer from produced water. This is because low molecular weight carboxylic acids do not
form a separate phase. Pentanoic acid has a low degree of miscibility with water, i.e. about 5%
by mass. Excess pentanoic acid results in separation into a pentanoic acid rich phase and a water
rich phase. Furthermore excess pentanoic acid results in KHI polymer displacement from the
water rich phase to the pentanoic acid phase. Pentanoic acid has been found to displace about
90% of PVCap in water. Generally KHI polymer displacement has been found to improve as the
carbon number increases. Furthermore an increase in carbon number provides for an increase in
miscibility with KHI polymers, a decrease in volatility and a decrease in its solubility in the
aqueous phase which provide for improved performance. Octanoic acid, which is almost
immiscible with water at a solubility of substantially 0.68 g of octanoic acid per litre of water,
has been found to substantially displace KHI polymer from aqueous solution. Carboxylic acids
with yet higher carbon numbers can be used to displace KHI polymers. However carboxylic
acids with a carbon number of more than nine are solid under standard conditions and therefore
less readily usable. Tests have demonstrated that the presence of other water soluble organic
compounds, such as MEG and ethanol, and inorganic salts, such as sodium chloride, have little
or no appreciable effect on the displacement of KHI polymer from produced water.
[0077]       A graph showing plots of carboxylic acid carbon number versus a) miscibility in
water by mass and b) effectiveness of removal of PVCap from water can be seen in Figure 2. A
first plot shows miscibility in water by mass with the miscibility dropping to about 5% for
pentanoic acid and dropping yet further to about 0.25% for heptanoic acid. A second plot shows
the percentage of PVCap removed from water with an carboxylic acid carbon number of four or
less providing for minimal or no removal of PVCap. Higher carboxylic acid carbon numbers
provide for an increase in removal with a carbon number of five, i.e. pentanoic acid, providing
for a significant improvement at about 90% removal of PVCap. Carboxylic acids with a carbon
number of six or seven demonstrate yet further improvement. Heptanoic removes more than
99% of PVCap.

[0078]       According to yet another form the treatment fluid comprises a second organic
compound of lower density than the first organic compound (i.e. the carboxylic acid described
above). In one approach and where the first organic compound is heptanoic acid, the treatment
fluid comprises a substantially equivalent volume of heptane. The presence of heptane in the
treatment fluid has been found to aid separation into two phases and with substantially no
reduction in movement of KHI from the phase constituted by the mass of aqueous fluid to the
phase constituted by the first organic compound. Aiding separation by way of the second
organic compound provides for ease of physical separation as described above with reference to
Figure 1 and which takes place in the KHI separator 44 which is described below with reference
to Figure 3. According to another approach the treatment fluid comprises no more than 50%
volume of heptane with the balance being heptanoic acid. Movement of KHI from the phase
constituted by the mass of aqueous has been found to be substantially unaffected by the
reduction in the percentage volume of heptanoic acid. Furthermore a second organic compound
such as heptane is normally of lower cost than a first organic compound such as heptanoic acid.
Increasing the percentage volume of the second organic compound therefore provides a cost
benefit. According to yet another approach the treatment fluid comprises plural second organic
compounds, such as a mixture of hexane and heptane. The first and second organic compounds
are mixed with each other and added together. Alternatively a further volume of the second
organic compound is added after addition of the mixture of the first and second organic
compounds and after physical separation of the two phases formed following addition of the
mixture of the first and second organic compounds. The addition of the further volume of the
second organic compound provides for removal of whatever KHI and first organic compound
remains, e.g. in the form of a cloudy suspension. Alternatively the second organic compound is
not mixed with the first organic compound with the first organic compound being added alone as
part of a first KHI removal stage and the second organic compound being added subsequently as
part of a second KHI removal stage. Subsequent addition of the second organic compound
provides for removal of KHI and first organic compound remaining, for example, in the form of
a cloudy suspension.
[0079]       A method according to a second embodiment of the present invention will now be
described with reference to Figure 1. The second embodiment involves determining the
concentration of KHI polymer in the produced water. The method according to the second
embodiment is as follows. A small sample, e.g. 1000 g, of produced water is removed at the
onshore processing facility 22. Where the small sample of produced water contains about 0.1
mass percent of KHI polymer, the addition of 5.0 g of heptanoic acid to the sample displaces

substantially all of the KHI polymer to a heptanoic acid rich phase and yields a KHI polymer
concentrated heptanoic acid phase of substantially 17 mass percent of KHI polymer. The
concentration of KHI polymer in the heptanoic acid rich phase is then determined accurately by a
known method, such as by InfraRed (IR) spectrometry, UltraViolet (UV) spectrometry or visual
spectrometry. Alternatively the heptanoic acid is removed from the heptanoic acid rich phase,
e.g. by heating the heptanoic acid rich phase to drive off the heptanoic acid, to leave the KHI
polymer behind. The remaining KHI polymer is then weighed. The concentration of the KHI
polymer in the heptanoic acid phase makes accurate determination of the mass fraction
straightforward whereby the concentration of KHI polymer in the produced water is calculated
readily on the basis of simple mass balance.
[0080]       An example separator arrangement and a MEG regeneration unit, which are
comprised in apparatus according to the present invention, are shown in Figure 3. In a first form
the apparatus of Figure 3 is comprised in the onshore processing facility 22 of Figure 1. In a
second form suited for a well testing process part of the apparatus of Figure 3 is comprised in or
adjacent the offshore platform 16.
[0081]       Considering the first form of the apparatus of Figure 3 further, Figure 3 shows a
conventional separator 40, which is either a two phase separator used in gas production or a three
phase separator used in oil production. The two phase separator is operative to receive produced
fluid and to separate the fluid into a gaseous component and a liquid component. The liquid
component which comprises mainly condensed water is then received in a treatment fluid
receiving chamber 42. The gaseous component is conveyed away from the separator 40 for
further processing. The three phase separator is operative to receive produced fluid and to
separate the fluid into a gaseous component, an oil component and a water comprising
component. The gaseous component is either conveyed away from the separator 40 for flaring
or subsequent processing and the oil component is conveyed away from the separator 40 for
further processing. The water comprising component, which is normally salt laden on account of
the produced water comprised in this component, is conveyed away from the separator 40 to the
treatment fluid receiving chamber 42. Treatment chemical or fluid is introduced to the treatment
fluid receiving chamber 42 from the treatment fluid storage tank 28 as described above with
reference to Figure 1. The contents of the treatment fluid receiving chamber 42 are then
conveyed to a KHI separator 44. The KHI separator 44 is operative to remove the second,
substantially non-polar phase, which comprises the KHI polymer, from the first, substantially
polar aqueous phase. As described above with reference to Figure 1, the KHI separator 44 is
operative by one or more of gravity separation, liquid to liquid coalescing separation and

                                                    L- I
centrifugal separation. Where gravity separation is used, the process can be assisted by
introducing gas bubbles to lighten the hydrocarbon phase or by adjusting the temperature. Such
separation techniques will be familiar to the person skilled in the art. The second, substantially
non-polar phase is then conveyed from the KHI separator 44 to the used KHI polymer storage
tank 30. The first, substantially polar aqueous phase is conveyed from the KHI separator 44 and
then used or further processed depending on the application to hand. Where the process
comprises the addition of a second organic compound subsequent to the addition of the first
organic compound, the apparatus of Figure 3 further comprises a second treatment fluid
receiving chamber (not shown) immediately after and in fluid communication with the KHI
separator 44 and which is fed from a second treatment fluid storage tank (not shown). In
addition the apparatus of Figure 3 further comprises a second KHI separator (not shown)
immediately after and in fluid communication with the second treatment fluid receiving
chamber. The second treatment fluid storage tank is filled with the second organic compound
which is then fed therefrom into the second treatment fluid receiving chamber where it mixes
with fluid received from the first KHI separator 44. Two phases are thus formed and are
separated from each other in the second KHI separator, with the remaining KHI and first organic
compound containing phase being conveyed to the used KHI polymer storage tank 30. The other
phase, i.e. the now further treated first, substantially polar aqueous phase, is conveyed from the
second KHI separator and then used or further processed depending on the application to hand.
According to a first application the first, substantially polar aqueous phase is re-injected 46 into
the reservoir formation. The first application is of particular utility where the aqueous fluid
comprises condensed water and perhaps also formation water. According to a second
application the first, substantially polar aqueous phase is disposed overboard 48. In a third
application in which the first, substantially polar aqueous phase comprises THI and perhaps a
significant proportion of THI, the first, substantially polar aqueous phase is conveyed from the
KHI separator 44 to a THI regeneration unit 50. The THI regeneration unit 50 is operative in
accordance with known practice to transform rich THI to lean THI by driving off water from the
first, substantially polar aqueous phase. The lean THI is then re-used subject, if necessary, to
further processing to remove hydrocarbons present. The driven off water is then either disposed
of, e.g. overboard, or used for re-injection. Considering Figure 3 yet further apparatus according
to an embodiment of the present invention is constituted by the treatment fluid receiving
chamber 42, the KHI separator 44 and the THI regeneration unit 50, which together constitute
improved THI regeneration apparatus.

                                                  -0U
[0082]        Considering the second form of the apparatus of Figure 3 further, a mixture of KII
and THI (e.g., in the form of methanol) are introduced to well fluids present in a well testing
process to reduce the likelihood of hydrate formation, with the KII affording a reduction in the
volume of methanol employed. After use the well fluids are conveyed to the separator 40 which
is constituted as a mobile unit present on or adjacent the offshore platform 16. After separation
the aqueous component is conveyed to the treatment fluid receiving chamber 42 and treated with
treatment fluid as described above before being conveyed to the KII separator 44 for removal of
the first, substantially polar aqueous phase and second, substantially non-polar phase from each
other. This second form of the apparatus lacks the THI regeneration unit 50 with the first,
substantially polar aqueous phase, which comprises methanol albeit a reduced volume of
methanol on account of the previously present KII, being disposed of overboard 48 and the
second, substantially non-polar phase, which comprises the KIl, being collected in the used KIl
polymer storage tank 30. According to an alternative approach where operating conditions
allow, inhibition is provided by way of KIl alone, i.e. no THI such as methanol is used.
Otherwise the process is as described above with the KII being separated following treatment
with treatment fluid.
[0083]       A further embodiment of the present invention will now be described. An oil or gas
production facility according to the further embodiment is as shown in Figure 1 except as will
now be described. The main pipeline 24 is operative to convey a wet or dry gas from the
platform 16. A composition storage tank 26 is present on the offshore platform 16 instead of the
KIl storage tank 26 of the embodiment above. The treatment fluid storage tank 28 of the
embodiment above is absent from the present embodiment and the component identified by
reference numeral 128 is a treatment plant. The present embodiment also comprises a used
composition storage tank 30 instead of the used KHI polymer storage tank 30 of the embodiment
above; the used composition storage tank 30 is in fluid communication with the treatment plant
128.
[0084]       A method which makes use of the apparatus according to the further embodiment
will now be described with reference to Figure 1. A vendor delivers a composition to the
operator of the oil or gas production facility 10. The composition comprises a KIl formulation
and an organic compound. The organic compound is described further below. The KHI
formulation is of known form. For example the KHI formulation comprises a water miscible
polymer such as polyvinylcaprolactam (PVCap). The water miscible polymer makes up less
than half of the composition with the remainder comprising the organic compound which is
operative as a carrier and solvent for the water miscible polymer. The operator puts the

composition in the composition storage tank 26 on the offshore platform 16. The composition is
introduced to the main pipeline 24 by way of operation of the control valve and pumping
apparatus. Alternatively the composition is injected at the wellhead or downhole. Where the
offshore platform 16 produces dry or wet gas or mixed oil and gas fluids, the offshore platform
16 comprises a separator which is operative to separate the gaseous component from the liquid
component. In such circumstances the composition is added to the gaseous component after
separation and before the gaseous component is conveyed away from the offshore platform 16
by way of the main pipeline 24. The volume and rate of introduction of the composition are
determined in dependence on the extent of gas hydrate formation risk in the main pipeline 24 and
the onshore processing facility 22. The composition is dispersed through and entrained in the
gaseous component and in the water phase flowing though the main pipeline 24 where the
composition is operative to inhibit gas hydrate formation. It should therefore be appreciated that
it is unnecessary for the KHI formulation to be present in the water phase to provide an
inhibitory effect and correspondingly that the KHI formulation containing composition is an
effective gas hydrate formation inhibitor. When fluid in the main pipeline reaches the treatment
plant 128, the treatment plant 128 is operative to allow for separation of the substantially non
polar phase formed by the composition from the substantially polar phase formed by the rest of
the fluid. Then the substantially non-polar phase is removed from the substantially polar phase
by gravity separation, liquid to liquid coalescing separation or centrifugal separation and stored
in the used composition storage tank 30. The composition contained in the used composition
storage tank 30 is subsequently re-used by injection at the offshore platform 16 as described
above. Alternatively the composition contained in the used composition storage tank 30 is
further treated by heating moderately to drive off light hydrocarbons, for example from wet gas,
to leave the KHI formulation and the organic compound, before reuse. Alternatively the
composition is further treated by heating less moderately to drive off all or most of the organic
compound and whatever light hydrocarbons might be present to leave the KHI itself. The
composition comprising the KHI formulation and the organic compound is then reused or the
KHI itself is then re-used, for example in a fresh KHI formulation. The substantially polar phase
formed by the rest of the fluid may then be disposed of, re-used, for example by reinjection into
the formation, or further processed as described below with reference to Figure 5. It can thus be
appreciated that in dry gas applications (i.e. where the liquid hydrocarbon content is low) the
composition is recoverable with comparatively minimal treatment.
[0085]       The organic compound will now be described in more detail. In one form the
organic compound is an alcohol having the general formula R-OH, where R has the formula

CnHm. Higher molecular weight alcohols, such as butanol and higher and more particularly
alcohols with a carbon number of five or more, have been found to be effective at retaining KHI
polymer in the composition. This is because low molecular weight alcohols do not form a phase
apart from well fluids. Pentanol has a low degree of miscibility with water, i.e. about 2% by
mass. The use of pentanol results in a low level of KHI polymer loss from the composition to
the water rich phase. Pentanol has been found to retain more than 90% of PVCap in the
composition. Generally KHI polymer loss has been found to reduce as the carbon number
increases. Furthermore an increase in carbon number provides for an increase in miscibility with
KHI polymers, a decrease in volatility and a decrease in its solubility in the aqueous phase which
provide for improved performance. Octanol, which is almost immiscible with water at a
solubility of substantially 30 mg of octanol per litre of water, has been found to completely retain
KHI polymer in the composition. Alcohols with yet higher carbon numbers can be used to retain
KHI polymers. However alcohols with a carbon number of more than eleven are solid under
standard conditions and therefore less readily usable. Tests have demonstrated that the presence
of other water soluble organic compounds, such as MEG and ethanol, and inorganic salts, such
as sodium chloride, have little or no appreciable effect on the retention of KHI polymer in the
composition. In certain forms of the invention such water soluble organic compounds and
inorganic salts are added along with the composition, for example at the wellhead, to improve
upon hydrate inhibition.
[0086]       The diagram of Figure 4 shows the sub-cooling extents of PVCap induced methane
hydrate crystal growth inhibition where PVCap is applied according to the presently described
method and according to the known approach. Considering Figure 4 further the top half shows
the sub-cooling extents of PVCap induced methane hydrate crystal growth inhibition according
to the present invention where a composition comprising 20% PVCap and 80% organic
compound is applied. The bottom half shows the sub-cooling extents of PVCap induced
methane hydrate crystal growth inhibition according to the known approach where 0.5 wt%
aqueous PVCap is applied. The concentration of PVCap relative to water is the same for the
present invention and the known approach. As is evident from analysis of Figure 4, application
of PVCap according to the presently described method provides substantially no reduction in the
effectiveness of methane hydrate crystal growth inhibition.
[0087]       In another form the organic compound is a carboxylic acid having the general
formula R-COOH, where R is a monovalent functional group. Higher molecular weight
carboxylic acids, such as pentanoic acid and higher, i.e. carboxylic acids with a carbon number
of five or more, have been found to be effective at retaining KHI polymer in the composition.

                                                   -Y I
This is because low molecular weight carboxylic acids do not form a separate phase. Heptanoic
acid has a low degree of miscibility with water, i.e. about 0.2% by mass. Where heptanoic acid
is used there is separation into a phase comprising the heptanoic acid and the KHI and a water
rich phase. Heptanoic acid has been found to retain over 99% of PVCap in the composition.
Generally KHI polymer retention has been found to improve as the carbon number increases.
Furthermore an increase in carbon number provides for an increase in miscibility with KHI
polymers, a decrease in volatility and a decrease in its solubility in the aqueous phase which
provide for improved performance. Octanoic acid, which is almost immiscible with water at a
solubility of 0.68 g of octanoic acid per litre of water, has been found to substantially retain the
KHI polymer in the composition. Carboxylic acids with yet higher carbon numbers can be used
to retain KHI polymers. However carboxylic acids with a carbon number of more than nine are
solid under standard conditions and therefore less readily usable. Tests have demonstrated that
the presence of other water soluble organic compounds, such as MEG and ethanol, and inorganic
salts, such as sodium chloride, have little or no appreciable effect on the retention of KHI
polymer in the composition.
[0088]       Where the present invention is being used with a wet gas and according to a
particular approach the carbon number of the organic compound is selected such that the liquid
hydrocarbons present in the wet gas are more volatile than the organic compound. This
particular approach is followed where treatment of the removed composition involves moderate
heating to drive off the lighter hydrocarbons contributed by the wet gas and to leave the organic
compound as is described above.
[0089]       According to yet another form the composition comprises a second organic
compound of lower density than the first organic compound (i.e. the alcohol or carboxylic acid
described above). In one approach and where the first organic compound is heptanol or
heptanoic acid, the composition comprises up to 50% volume of heptane. The presence of
heptane in the composition has been found to aid separation into two phases and with
substantially no increase in loss of KHI from the phase constituted by the first organic
compound. Aiding separation by way of the second organic compound provides for ease of
physical separation as described above with reference to Figure 1 and which takes place in the
KHI separator 144 which is described below with reference to Figure 5. Furthermore a second
organic compound such as heptane is normally of lower cost than a first organic compound such
as heptanol or heptanoic acid. Increasing the percentage volume of the second organic
compound therefore provides a cost benefit. According to yet another approach the composition
comprises plural second organic compounds, such as a mixture of hexane and heptane. The first

                                                   -Y/_
and second organic compounds are mixed with each other and added together. Alternatively a
further volume of the second organic compound is added after addition of the composition and
after physical separation of the two phases formed following a primary separation process. The
addition of the further volume of the second organic compound provides for removal of
whatever KHI and first organic compound is present, e.g. in the form of a cloudy suspension.
Alternatively the second organic compound is not comprised in the composition with the first
organic compound being added alone with KHI and the second organic compound being added
subsequently, e.g. after primary separation or at the onshore processing facility 22 as part of a
subsequent KHI removal stage. Subsequent addition of the second organic compound provides
for removal of KHI and first organic compound remaining, for example, in the form of a cloudy
suspension.
[0090]       In certain circumstances the wellhead temperature is high, for example, on account
of the ambient temperature or other such environmental effect. In such circumstances there is
liable to be little or no gas condensate in the vicinity of the wellhead. The composition
comprising the organic compound and the KHI formulation is therefore added at the wellhead
and the high temperature environment favours the retention of the KHI formulation in the phase
formed by the organic compound where the KHI formulation is operative to at least reduce if not
prevent hydrate formation.
[0091]       An example separator arrangement and a MEG regeneration unit, which are
comprised in apparatus according to the present invention, are shown in Figure 5. The apparatus
of Figure 5 is typically comprised in the onshore processing facility 22 of Figure 1.
[0092]       Considering the apparatus of Figure 5 further, Figure 5 shows a conventional two
phase separator 140 used in gas production. The two phase separator is operative to receive
produced fluid, which contains the earlier introduced composition, and to separate the fluid into
a gaseous component and a liquid component. During the earlier part of the life of a dry or wet
gas reservoir the liquid component normally contains condensed water. Later in the life of the
reservoir the gas-water contact may rise and thereby result in the production of saline formation
water. The gaseous component is conveyed away from the separator 140 for further processing.
The liquid component, which could be salt laden on account of formation water comprised in
this component, is conveyed away from the separator 140 to a treatment fluid receiving chamber
142. A treatment composition comprising at least one second organic compound, such as
heptane, is introduced to the treatment fluid receiving chamber 142 from a treatment fluid
storage tank 143 to improve upon subsequent separation of the phase constituted by the

composition. The contents of the treatment fluid receiving chamber 142 are then conveyed to a
KHI separator 144. The KHI separator 144 is operative to remove the second, substantially non
polar phase, which comprises the KHI polymer, from the first, substantially polar aqueous phase.
As described above with reference to Figure 1, the KHI separator 144 is operative by one or
more of gravity separation, liquid to liquid coalescing separation and centrifugal separation.
Where gravity separation is used, the process can be assisted by introducing gas bubbles to
lighten one of the phases or by adjusting the temperature. Such separation techniques will be
familiar to the person skilled in the art. According to an alternative approach separation takes
place at a degassing stage. The release of pressure involved in degassing has been found to aid
separation of the non-polar phase and the polar phase. The second, substantially non-polar phase
is then conveyed from the KHI separator 144 to the used composition storage tank 130. The
first, substantially polar aqueous phase is conveyed from the KHI separator 144 and then
disposed of, used or further processed depending on the application to hand. Where the process
comprises the addition of at least one second organic compound subsequent to processing by the
KHI separator 144, the apparatus of Figure 5 further comprises a second treatment fluid
receiving chamber (not shown) immediately after and in fluid communication with the KHI
separator 144 and which is fed from a second treatment fluid storage tank (not shown). In
addition the apparatus of Figure 5 further comprises a second KHI separator (not shown)
immediately after and in fluid communication with the second treatment fluid receiving
chamber. The second treatment fluid storage tank is filled with the at least one second organic
compound which is then fed therefrom into the second treatment fluid receiving chamber where
it mixes with fluid received from the first KHI separator 144. Two phases thus separate from
each other in the second KHI separator, with the remaining KHI and first organic compound
containing phase being conveyed to the used composition storage tank 130. The other phase, i.e.
the now further treated first, substantially polar aqueous phase, is conveyed from the second KHI
separator and then disposed of, used or further processed depending on the application to hand.
According to a first application the first, substantially polar aqueous phase is re-injected 146 into
the reservoir formation. The first application is of particular utility where the aqueous fluid
comprises condensed water and perhaps also formation water. According to a second
application the first, substantially polar aqueous phase is disposed overboard 148. In a third
application in which the first, substantially polar aqueous phase comprises THI and perhaps a
significant proportion of THI, the first, substantially polar aqueous phase is conveyed from the
KHI separator 144 to a THI regeneration unit 150. The THI regeneration unit 150 is operative in
accordance with known practice to transform rich THI to lean THI by driving off water from the
first, substantially polar aqueous phase. The lean THI is then re-used subject, if necessary, to

further processing to remove hydrocarbons. The driven off water is then either disposed of, e.g.
overboard, or used for re-injection. Considering Figure 5 yet further, apparatus according to an
embodiment of the present invention is constituted by the treatment fluid receiving chamber 142,
the KHI separator 144 and the THI regeneration unit 150, which together constitute improved
THI regeneration apparatus.
[0093]      Although the description above has been given with reference to production of
natural gas of a conventional nature the present invention is applicable to the production of
unconventional gas from the like of shale reservoirs.

Claims
1.       A method of treating aqueous fluid, the method comprising adding a composition
comprising a first organic compound and at least one Kinetic Hydrate Inhibitor (KHI) to a mass
of aqueous fluid, the first organic compound being one of: an alcohol having a carbon number of
at least four; and a carboxylic acid.
2.       The method of claim 1 in which the mass of aqueous fluid is in a dry gas process.
3.       The method of claim 1 or 2 in which the KHI and the first organic compound constitute a
phase apart from the mass of aqueous fluid, the method further comprising physically removing
the composition from the mass of aqueous fluid subsequent to the step of adding the composition
to the mass of aqueous fluid.
4.       The method of claim 3 in which the step of physically removing the composition takes
place at a degassing stage.
5.       The method of claim 3 or 4 further comprising treating the physically removed
composition to separate the KHI and the first organic compound from each other.
6.       The method of any one of claims 3 to 5 further comprising one of re-use and storage for
later re-use of the physically removed composition.
7.       The method of any one of claims 3 to 6 and where the physically removed composition
comprises light hydrocarbons, further comprising heating the physically removed composition to
drive off the light hydrocarbons but substantially leave the first organic compound.
8.       The method of any one of claims 3 to 7 in which a THI is comprised in the mass of
aqueous fluid, the method further comprising subjecting the mass of aqueous fluid to a
Thermodynamic Hydrate Inhibitor (THI) regeneration process after the step of physically
removing the composition from the mass of aqueous fluid.
9.       The method of any one of the preceding claims where the first organic compound is an
alcohol, in which the alcohol comprises no more than one hydroxyl (-OH) group, the hydroxyl
group being terminal to the alcohol.
10.      The method of any one of the preceding claims where the first organic compound is a
carboxylic acid, in which the carboxylic acid comprises no more than one carboxyl (-COOH)
group, the carboxyl group being terminal to the carboxylic acid.

11.     The method of any one of the preceding claims in which the first organic compound has
the general formula R-OH, where R has the formula CnHm, and R comprises at least one of: an
alkyl group; an allyl group; a cyclic group; and a benzyl group.
12.     The method of any one of the preceding claims in which the first organic compound has a
carbon number of greater than four and no more than ten.
13.     The method of any one of the preceding claims further comprising adding a second
organic compound to the mass of aqueous fluid, the second organic compound being of lower
density than the first organic compound.
14.     The method of claim 13 in which the second organic compound is added to the mass of
aqueous fluid at substantially the same time as the first organic compound.
15.     The method of claim 13 or 14 in which the second organic compound is added to the
mass of aqueous fluid following physical removal of the composition from the mass of aqueous
fluid subsequent to the step of adding the composition to the mass of aqueous fluid.
16.     An oil or gas production or exploration method comprising the method according to any
one of the preceding claims in which the composition is introduced to a conduit susceptible to
gas hydrate formation.
17.     The oil or gas production or exploration method according to claim 16 in which the
composition is added at a location of elevated temperature.
18.     The oil or gas production or exploration method according to claim 16 or 17 in which the
oil or gas production or exploration method is one of: a natural gas production or exploration
method; and an unconventional gas production or exploration method.
19.     The oil or gas production or exploration method according to any one of claims 16 to 18
further comprising separating well fluids into a gaseous component and a liquid component and
conveying the liquid component separately from the gaseous component and the step of adding
the composition to the mass of aqueous fluid comprises adding the composition to the separately
conveyed gaseous component.
20.     Apparatus for treating aqueous fluid according to the method of any one of claims 1 to
15, in which the apparatus comprises a vessel containing the mass of aqueous fluid and an
arrangement configured to introduce the composition to the mass of aqueous fluid contained in
the vessel.

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014307778, is current as of 2018-03-11 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014307778, is current as of 2018-03-11 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014307778, is current as of 2018-03-11 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014307778, is current as of 2018-03-11 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014307778, is current as of 2018-03-11 21:00 AEST

