    Abstract
    A magnetic top type power-obtaining system comprises power obtaining heads (1)
and a PCB board (2), each of two ends of the PCB board being respectively connected
with the power obtaining heads. The power obtaining head comprises an enclosure (3),
a magnet (4) and two pins (6) being installed in the enclosure. The PCB board
comprises two conductive layers (9), the conductive layers are in contact with the two
pins to achieve conduction. The magnetic top type power-obtaining system mainly
adopts a magnetic top type power-obtaining head with a magnet and a flat conductive
PCB board. The single power-obtaining head can output more than one circuit, and
power can be obtained anywhere on the flat conductive PCB board, which not only
reduces the cost, but also makes the structure simple so as to be able to layout quickly.
User installation is very convenient and reliable.
                                            8

FIG. 1
          A
FIG. 2
 FIG. 3
        9
FIG. 4

                         A Magnetic Top Type Power-Obtaining System
     Field of Invention
     The present invention relates to a connector for power supply of low voltage LED
lights used for supermarket shelves, and more specifically, relates to a magnetic top
type power-obtaining system.
     Background
     Low voltage LED lights are widely used in the field of supermarket shelves.
Currently, power supply wires for LED lights are basically cylindrical wires.
     Following technical problems are found in currently used technologies.
     All current low voltage LED lights adopt cylindrical wires to supply power. Due
to the facts that it is not easy to fix the wires, a plastic housing is used as rolling guide,
2 bare copper wires are embedded into the guide, and then the housing is stuck on
boards of the shelves in the supermarket. Then, power obtaining heads of the inner
installed conductive copper sheets are snapped to power obtaining wires to achieve
power supply to the LED lights. Disadvantages: firstly, the cost of the copper wires is
high; secondly, the rolling guide is thick, and is not suitable for the shelves of
supermarket with small gaps between back plates and layer plates; thirdly, it's
inconvenient to install and dissemble, and obtaining power through inserting card is
not flexible.
                                                1

     Summary of Invention
     Technical Problems to be solved by the present invention is to provide a
connector for low voltage LED lights, which has a simple structure and is easy to
install.
     Objects of the present invention are achieved through following technical
solutions: a magnetic top type power-obtaining system comprising power obtaining
heads and a PCB board, each of two ends of the PCB board being respectively
connected with one of the power obtaining heads, said power obtaining head
comprises an enclosure, a magnet and two pins being installed in the enclosure; said
PCB board comprises two conductive layers, the conductive layers are in contact with
the two pins to achieve the conduction.
     Preferably, said two pins are two electrode pins.
     Preferably, said magnet includes one or two magnets, and are for absorbing the
power obtaining heads onto shelves.
     Preferably, said power obtaining head includes a cover plate, said cover plate is
snap connected to said enclosure.
     Preferably, said PCB board has a sticking layer thereon for sticking the PCB
board to the shelves.
     Preferably, said flat conductive PCB board has a magnetic bar stuck on the back
thereof, the PCB board is installed to the shelves through absorption of the magnetic
                                             2

bar.
      Advantages and benefits of the present invention are: the magnetic top type
power-obtaining system of the present invention mainly adopts the magnetic top type
power obtaining heads and a flat type conductive PCB board, the single power
obtaining head can output more than one circuit, and power can be obtained at any
position of the flat type conductive PCB board, which not only reduces the cost, but
also makes the structure simple so as to be able to layout quickly, to make the system
be used generically and be adoptable to narrow space. User installation is very
convenient and reliable.
     Description of drawings
     Fig.   I is a schematic view       showing structure of a magnetic top type
power-obtaining system of the present invention;
     Fig. 2 is a back view of Fig 1;
     Fig. 3 is a cross-section view of a magnetic top type power-obtaining system of
the present invention;
     Fig. 4 is a schematic view of a structure of a PCB board in the magnetic top type
power-obtaining system of the present invention;
     Fig. 5 is a cross-section view of the PCB board in the magnetic top type
power-obtaining system of the present invention;
                                            3

     In the drawings: I power obtaining head, 2 PCB board, 3 enclosure, 4 magnet, 5,
cover plate, 6 pin, 8 sticking layer, 9 conductive layer.
     Embodiment of the present invention
     Further description of the present invention is to be made with reference to
drawings and embodiments.
     A magnetic top type power-obtaining system comprises power obtaining heads
and a PCB board, each of two ends of the PCB board being respectively connected
with one of the power obtaining heads, said power obtaining head comprises an
enclosure, a magnet and two pins being installed in the enclosure; said PCB board
comprises two conductive layers. the conductive layers are in contact with the two
pins to achieve conduction.
     As shown in figures 1 and 2, a magnetic top type power-obtaining system
comprises power obtaining heads 1 and a PCB board 2, each of two ends of the PCB
board 2 being respectively connected with the power obtaining heads 1. The power
obtaining head I comprises an enclosure 3, a magnet 4 and two pins 6 being installed
in the enclosure. In the present embodiment, the pins can be replaced with electrode
pins. The PCB board 2 comprises two conductive layers 9 which are in contact with
the two pins 6 to achieve conduction.
     As shown in figures 3-5, the power obtaining head 1 includes an enclosure 3, two
magnets 4 and two pins 6 being installed in the enclosure 3. The two magnets are
                                             4

symmetrically set, for absorbing onto shelves. The cover board 5 is snap connected to
the enclosure 3. The pins 6 contact with conductive layers 9 of the PCB board 2 so as
to achieve conduction. The PCB board 2 also includes a sticking layer 8 for sticking
the PCB board 2 to the shelves. Preferably, the PCB board 2 is a flat conductive PCB
board.
     The sticking layer 8 on the flat conductive PCB board 2 sticks on the iron shelve
boards, or magnetically absorbs onto the shelves. The two magnets on the magnetic
top type power obtaining head I absorbs firmly onto the iron shelve boards. The two
pins 6 (or electrode pins) of the magnetic top type power obtaining head contact to
two conductive layers 9 on the flat conductive PCB board 2. Low voltage LED lights
can be supplied with power conveniently.
     The magnetic top type power-obtaining system of the present invention mainly
adopts magnetic top type power-obtaining heads with magnets and a flat conductive
PCB board. The single power-obtaining head can output more than one circuit, and
power can be obtained anywhere on the flat conductive PCB board, which not only
reduces the cost, but also makes the structure simple so as to be able to layout quickly.
User installation is very convenient and reliable.
     In the present specification, the present invention has been described with
reference to specific embodiments. However, it is apparent that various amendments
and variations can be made without departing from the spirits and scope of the present
invention. Therefore, the description and figures shall be considered as descriptive
rather than limiting.
                                            5

     Claims:
     1. A magnetic top type power-obtaining system, characterized in, comprising
power obtaining heads and a flat conductive PCB board, each of two ends of the flat
conductive PCB board being respectively connected with one of the power obtaining
heads, said power obtaining head comprises an enclosure, a magnet and two pins
being installed in the enclosure; said flat conductive PCB board comprises two
conductive layers, the conductive layers being in contact with the two pins to achieve
conduction.
     2. The magnetic top type power-obtaining           system according to claim 1,
characterized in, said two pins are two electrode pins.
     3. The magnetic top type power-obtaining           system according to claim 1,
characterized in, said magnet includes one or two magnets, and are for absorbing the
power obtaining heads onto shelves.
     4. The magnetic top type power-obtaining system according to any of claims 1-3,
characterized in, said power obtaining heads include a cover plate, said cover plate is
snap connected to the enclosure.
     5. The magnetic top type power-obtaining system according to any of claims 1-3,
characterized in, said flat conductive PCB board has a sticking layer thereon for
sticking the flat conductive PCB board to the shelves.
     6. The magnetic top type power-obtaining system according to any of claims 1-3,
characterized in, said flat conductive PCB board has a magnetic bar stuck on the back
                                            6

thereof, the flat conductive PCB board is installed to the shelves.
                                            7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
