                                            ABSTRACT
        An apparatus related to a contactless sound device, such as a horn, which may be
configured to output different and/or multiple pitches using a replaceable, or interchangeable,
electronic integrated circuit ("IC") module is disclosed. The electronic IC module may include
one or more sequencers electrically connected via one or more relays to at least one signal
generator which is electrically connected to an output driver. Each signal generator is configured
to generate at least one frequency signal, and optionally multiple frequency signals. The
electronic IC module may be physically attached to an IC connection interface located on the
exterior of the contactless horn body. The IC connection interface electrically connects the
electronic IC module to an electromagnet that drives the diaphragm of the contactless horn to
create the selected preconfigured frequency sound.

                              ELECTRONIC CONTACTLESS HORN
                                      AND SOUND DEVICE
                                          BACKGROUND
[1]             Apparatuses consistent with the exemplary embodiments relate to a contactless
sound device, such as a horn, that may be configured to output different and/or multiple pitches
using a replaceable, or interchangeable, electronic integrated circuit ("IC") module. In
particular, the exemplary embodiments relate to a more energy-efficient and longer-lasting sound
device that utilizes a contactless horn or sound device in connection with a replaceable, or
interchangeable, electronic IC module to generate sound.
[2]             Apparatuses of the related art include a metal contact, typically but not always
made out of tungsten, which is magnetically manipulated by an electromagnet in order to cause
the diaphragm of a horn to move, thus generating sound in a single pitch. By varying the
distance between the contact and the diaphragm, one may manipulate the horn to output different
pitches. However, in order to vary the distance between the contact and the diaphragm, and thus
achieve these different pitches, the horn's physical structure must be changed, which is a time
consuming, labor-intensive, and costly exercise.
[3]             Furthermore, in the related art, the contact used by the sound device requires a
relatively large amount of energy to move the diaphragm due to the extra weight of the metal
contacts required by the related art horn designs. The use of metal contacts in a horn or sound
device may also cause sparking around the contact, which increases the risk of fire when the
horn is used in certain environments, thus making these related art apparatuses unsuitable for use
in highly flammable environments such as mining operations. The fire risk inherent in related art
horn and sound devices also limits the types of materials that can be used in the construction of
                                                   1

the horn to materials that are nonflammable, thus precluding the use of some lightweight and/or
less expensive alternative materials in the horn design.
[4]            The metal contacts used in related art horn devices also frequently wear out or
corrode, thereby forcing the user to replace the contact or, in most cases, the entire horn.
[5]            In certain applications, such as in vehicle horns, there is a need for a horn that can
produce multiple pitches. Currently, vehicle manufacturers use multiple horns (typically one low
note horn and one high note horn) to overcome this limitation. However, the use of multiple
horns increases the weight of the vehicle, which negatively impacts the fuel efficiency of the
vehicle and increases the energy usage of the vehicle. Indeed, extant vehicle horns consume a
large amount of energy, making them undesirable for use in electric and hybrid vehicles.
                                            SUMMARY
[6]            According to an aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is provided
a contactless horn and sound device including a replaceable, or interchangeable, electronic IC
module, which provides greater energy-efficiency over related art horn and sound devices by
eliminating the metal contacts required by prior art designs.
[7]            According to another aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is
provided a contactless horn and sound device with a replaceable, or interchangeable, electronic
IC module, with a longer expected lifespan than prior art horn and sound devices through the
elimination of the metal contacts required by prior art designs.
18]            According to another aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is
provided a replaceable, or interchangeable, IC module that allows a single contactless horn and
sound device to generate multiple frequency tones.
                                                  2

[9]             According to another aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is
provided a replaceable, or interchangeable, IC module that allows for faster and easier
modification of the tones produced by the contactless horn and sound device.
[10]            According to another aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is
provided a contactless horn and sound device that may be used in highly flammable
environments.
[11]            According to another aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is
provided a contactless horn and sound device that may be constructed out of lighter weight
materials.
[12]            According to another aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is
provided a contactless horn and sound device that may be constructed out of less expensive
materials.
[13]            According to another aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is
provided a contactless horn and sound device that is more energy efficient and more suitable for
use in hybrid and electric vehicles.
[14]            According to an aspect of one or more exemplary embodiments, there is provided
a contactless horn that may be configured to output different and/or multiple pitches at different
intervals using a replaceable, or interchangeable, electronic IC module. The electronic IC
module may include one or more sequencers electrically connected via one or more relays to at
least one signal generator which is electrically connected to an output driver. If present, the one
or more sequencers may be used to select the at least one signal generator. Each signal generator
is configured to generate at least one frequency signal, and optionally multiple frequency signals.
The output of the signal generator is electrically connected to an output driver, which amplifies
                                                   3

the signal received from the signal generator. The electronic IC module may be physically
attached to an IC connection interface located on the exterior of the contactless horn body. The
IC connection interface electrically connects the electronic IC module to an electromagnet that
drives the diaphragm of the contactless horn to create the selected preconfigured frequency
sound(s).
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[15]            Fig. 1 is a circuit diagram illustrating an electronic circuit for a contactless horn
and sound device according to an exemplary embodiment.
[16]            Fig. 2 is a diagram illustrating a contactless horn and sound device with attached
electronic integrated circuit module according to an exemplary embodiment.
[17]            Fig. 3 is a diagram illustrating the side and bottom view of the diaphragm portion
of a contactless horn and sound device according to an exemplary embodiment.
[18]            Fig. 4 is a diagram illustrating a contactless horn and sound device that interacts
with a vehicle system according to an exemplary embodiment that generates multiple tones
based on input received from the vehicle system.
[19]            Fig. 5 is a diagram illustrating a contactless horn and sound device according to
an exemplary embodiment that may communicate with surrounding vehicles.
[20]            Fig. 6 is a circuit diagram illustrating an electronic circuit for a contactless horn
and sound device according to an exemplary embodiment.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[21]            Reference will now be made in detail to the following exemplary embodiments,
which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to the
like elements throughout. The exemplary embodiments may be embodied in various forms
                                                    4

without being limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. Descriptions of well
known parts are omitted for clarity.
[22]             Fig. 1 is a circuit diagram of an electronic circuit for a contactless horn and sound
device according to an exemplary embodiment. Referring to Fig. 1, a contactless horn and sound
device according to an exemplary embodiment may include a sequencer 100, a relay 180, a
signal generator 200, an output driver 300, and a contactless horn and housing 400.
[23]             The sequencer 100 is responsible for selecting the frequency of the sound to be
output by the signal generator 200 through the use of the relay 180, as well as the interval of the
sound signal. The sequencer 100 may include a timer IC chip 110, such as the LM555 Timer IC
chip of Texas Instruments, configured to output a signal waveform that drives a relay between
two states. Alternatively, the sequencer can use a transistor or other suitable circuitry or
electronics instead of an LM555 Timer IC chip.
[24]             The control voltage pin (8) and reset pin (4) of the timer IC chip 110 may be
connected to a voltage source that may range from 5V to 15V DC. An adjustable resistor 120
may be wired to the voltage source and to control voltage pin (8), reset pin (4), threshold pin (6),
and discharge pin (7) of the timer IC chip 110, and may also be wired to electrolytic capacitor
 130. A switch 150 may be connected to the trigger pin (2) of the timer IC chip 110. The output
pin (3) of the timer IC chip 110 may be connected to a forward-biased diode 160. The diode 160
may be connected to a reverse-biased diode 170 and may also be connected to a relay 180.
Electrolytic capacitors 130 and 140, ground pin (1) of the timer IC chip 110, switch 150, and
diode 170 may then be wired to ground.
[25]             The output signal of the timer IC 110 may be used to select the position of the
relay 180, thereby selecting the frequency generated by the signal generator 200. Signal
                                                    5

generator 200 may include two timer IC chips 210 and 220, each of which may be configured to
produce a set frequency signal by adjusting the resistance values of the adjustable resistors 230,
240, 260, and 270, as well as adjusting the capacitance values of electrolytic capacitors 250 and
280. Some exemplary frequencies that may be produced include 250 Hz, 300 Hz, and 435 Hz,
however, the timer IC chips may be configured to produce any frequency that may be desirable
in a particular application. Timer IC chips 210 and 220 may be the 555 timer IC chip discussed
above or any other suitable timer IC chip.
[26]            The output of the relay 180 may be connected to the control voltage pin (8) and
reset pin (4) of the timer IC chips 210 and 220, and also may be connected to the adjustable
resistors 230 and 260, respectively. The adjustable resistors 230 and 260 may be connected to
the discharge pin (7) of the timer IC chips 210 and 220, respectively, and may also be connected
to adjustable resistors 240 and 270, respectively. Adjustable resistors 240 and 270 may be
connected to threshold pin (6) and trigger pin (2) of the timer IC chips 210 and 220, respectively,
and may also be connected to electrolytic capacitors 250 and 280 respectively. Ground pin (1) of
the timer IC chips 210 and 220 and electrolytic capacitors 250 and 280 may be wired to ground.
Output pin (3) of the timer IC chips 210 and 220 may be connected to forward-biased diodes 290
and 291, respectively, and may output a signal of a preconfigured frequency and interval to those
diodes.
[27]            The diodes 290 and 291 may be connected to the output driver 300. The output
driver 300 may be used to amplify the signal outputted by the circuitry of signal generator 200.
Output driver 300 may comprise a resistor 310 which may be connected to the base of the NPN
transistor 320. The emitter of the NPN transistor may be connected to ground and the diode 330
may also be connected to ground. The collector of the NPN transistor 320 may be connected to
                                                  6

the reverse-biased diode 330 and may also be connected to the contactless horn and housing 400,
or other circuits to provide the desired signal output.
[28]            Fig. 2 is a diagram illustrating a contactless horn and sound device with attached
electronic integrated circuit module according to an exemplary embodiment. Referring now to
Fig. 2, the contactless horn and housing 400 may comprise an electromagnet 410 which may
magnetically manipulate (i.e., repel and attract) the metal plate 490 secured to the bottom
diaphragm 430 of the contactless horn to create a tone in accordance with the selected frequency
generated by the signal generator 200. The electromagnet 410 may be comprised of a coil,
preferably a copper coil that is 20 gauge or higher (i.e., smaller in diameter), wrapped around a
metal (e.g., steel, iron, or other magnetizable metal) bolt. However, the gauge of the copper coil
may be higher or lower depending on a variety of factors, such as power, weight, etc. The output
of the output driver 300 is electrically connected to the electromagnet 410 via the IC connection
interface 450, which is preferably positioned on the exterior of the base 440. The base 440 may
be constructed using a lightweight plastic, a lightweight metal, or another suitable material. Top
diaphragm 420 and bottom diaphragm 430 may be secured together using bolt 460 and washers
470 and 480 and the bottom diaphragm 430 may then be secured to the base 440 along the rim of
the base 440, thereby allowing the free movement of the center portion of the diaphragms 420
and 430 so as to produce the preconfigured frequency sound.
[29]            According to an exemplary embodiment, the signal generator 200 may be used to
generate multiple pitches, tones or notes simultaneously by modifying the interval at which
different frequencies are generated to create different tones. For example, the electromagnet 410
may be switched from operating at 300 Hz to 500 Hz every millisecond, so as to create a low and
                                                    7

high tone from a single device. This provides an advantage over related art horns that use two
separate horns to create two different tones.
[30]            Fig. 3 is a diagram illustrating the side view and bottom view of the diaphragm
portion of a contactless horn and sound device according to an exemplary embodiment.
Referring now to Fig. 3, there may be a separation between the electromagnet 410 and the metal
plate 480. The separation, or "air gap," preferably comprises a distance between 0.05 to 0.25
inches, with a tolerance of +/- 0.05 inches. However, this separation or "air gap" may be
adjusted as needed based on the desired application.
[31]            Furthermore, one skilled in the art will recognize that the contactless horn device
may be modified to play additional frequency tones by adding additional signal generators 200
and additional sequencers 100 to the electronic IC module and configuring them according to the
present teachings.
[32]            Fig. 4 is a diagram illustrating a contactless horn and sound device that interacts
with a vehicle system according to an exemplary embodiment that generates multiple tones
based on input received from the vehicle system. Referring to Fig. 4, sound device 500 may
interface with a vehicle's motherboard 510 or other similar component that receives data signals
from various vehicle triggers, switches, and external sensors 520 indicating the status of the
vehicle, such as, without limitation, the Intelligent Power Distribution Module (IPDM) found in
Nissan vehicles. Sound device 500 may produce different tones, pitches, frequencies, sounds
and/or intervals of sounds based on data received from the vehicle motherboard 510. For
example, one or more of the various sensors 520 may send a signal 515 indicating the speed of
the vehicle to the vehicle's motherboard 510, which includes one or more vehicle central
processing units (CPUs) 511. The vehicle CPU 511 may send a signal 505 to the sound device
                                                    8

500 that is used to control the output of signal generators 200 to output a particular tone, pitch,
frequency, sound, or sound interval, as discussed above. Data signal 505 or 515 may be received
by receiver 501 of the sound device 500, and provided as input to a CPU 502 to control
mechanical parts 503 of the sound device 500 to generate a particular sound. Sound device 500
may also include a transmitter 504 that provides feedback to the vehicle CPU 51 or the various
sensors 520 indicating the status of the sound device and the pitches, tones, frequencies, or
sounds it has produced.
[33]            The contactless horn and sound device of the exemplary embodiment may modify
the pitch, frequency, or tone produced based on a variety of inputs provided from the various
sensors 520. For example, the sound device 400 may produce a louder (that is, higher
amplitude) sound if the vehicle is moving at a high rate of speed than if the vehicle is moving
slowly or stopped. The sound device 500 may also produce different sounds in response to a
signal that the vehicle's anti-theft alarm has been triggered, or to announce that the driver has
locked or unlocked the vehicle. The sound device 500 of the exemplary embodiment may also
produce multiple alarm sounds depending how the alarm was triggered. For example, if the
vehicle is accidentally and innocently bumped while the vehicle is not moving, the sound device
500 may produce a softer tone or more delayed sound interval, as compared to an alarm that is
triggered by someone or something smashing the vehicle's windshield or window. The pitches,
frequencies, tones and sounds generated by the sound device 400 may also be tailored to each
vehicle manufacturer and/or model.
[34]            Transmitter 504 may also be used to notify the driver of various conditions
relating to the vehicle. For example, when the vehicle's alarm is triggered, in addition to
generating a particular sound according to the type of alarm triggered, the sound device 400 may
                                                  9

cause transmitter 504 to notify the driver that the alarm has been triggered. For example,
transmitter 504 may notify the driver of the alarm via text message, email, or other electronic
notification means.
[35]             In addition, many vehicles include proximity sensors that detect when the driver
is within a certain distance of the vehicle, for example, to unlock the doors of the vehicle as the
driver approaches. Sound device 500 may receive a signal from these proximity sensors to alert
the driver that the vehicle doors are unlocked when the driver is a certain distance away from the
vehicle. The tone, pitch, frequency, and volume of the sound may be configured depending on
the driver's distance from the vehicle.
[36]             Sound device 500 may generate various sounds depending on various other
sensors 520 in accordance with the exemplary embodiment. For example, many vehicles include
sensors that detect proximity to other vehicles to alert the driver of a potential impact, (e.g.,
alerting the driver attempting to change lanes of other vehicles in the driver's blind spot).
According to the exemplary embodiment, such sensors 520 may send signals to sound device
500 indicating the proximity of an object, and the size or type of object, based on which the
sound the signal generator 200 will cause the sound device 500 to produce an appropriate sound.
For example, the sound device 500 of the vehicle in the blind spot may generate a sound in
response to a signal indicating that the vehicle changing lanes approaches within a specified
distance of the vehicle. As another example, if a pedestrian is detected, the sound device 500
may generate a softer sound to warn the pedestrian. If a fast-moving vehicle is detected, the
sound device 500 may generate a louder sound to warn the driver of the fast moving vehicle. If
an animal, such as a deer, is detected, the sound device 500 may generate a sound having a
frequency that will deter the animal and potentially avoid an impact.
                                                   10

[37]            According to an exemplary embodiment, the sound device 500 may be connected
to the vehicle CPU 511 or the vehicle's sensors 520 wirelessly. One skilled in the art would
understand that many wireless technologies (e.g., Bluetooth) may be used to effect wireless
communication between these devices. Using a wireless connection between these devices
would eliminate the need for wiring material and switches, reducing cost and weight and
simplifying manufacturing.
[38]            According to an exemplary embodiment, the vehicle sensors 520 or transmitter
504 may also send a wireless signal that is received by sound devices of surrounding vehicles
within a certain radius. The sound devices in the surrounding vehicles may generate sound
having a pitch, frequency, tone, and/or volume that depends on the type of signal received from
the vehicle sensors 520. For example, sound devices of vehicles closer to the vehicle whose
sensors 520 transmitted the wireless signal may generate a louder sound than sound devices in
vehicles that are further away. In addition, the frequency or tone of the generated sound may
depend on the type of vehicle from which the signal originates. For example, vehicle sensors
520 located on a truck may cause a deeper and/or louder sound to be produced in surrounding
vehicles, as compared to vehicles sensors 520 located on a smaller car. The sound generated by
the sound devices of the surrounding vehicles may be generated within the surrounding vehicle,
e.g., through the speaker system of the surrounding vehicle, or external of the surrounding
vehicle, e.g., by the horn of the surrounding vehicle. By generating sound in the surrounding
vehicles, background interference and noise are less likely to prevent surrounding drivers from
being alerted to potential dangers.
[39]            Fig. 5 is a diagram illustrating a contactless horn and sound device according to
an exemplary embodiment that may communicate with surrounding vehicles to cause a sound to
                                                   11

be generated by a horn or audio system in the surrounding vehicles. Referring to Fig. 5, in step
601, the driver activates the contactless horn trigger of the exemplary embodiment, which may
be located on the vehicle steering wheel or other location. In step 602a, a signal indicating that
the horn trigger has been activated may be sent to the vehicle CPU or Controller Area Network
(CAN) bus wirelessly or via wired connection. In step 602b, a signal indicating that the horn
trigger has been activated may be sent directly to the contactless horn. In step 603, the vehicle
CPU or CAN bus may send a signal to the contactless horn indicating one or more current
operating states of the vehicle. For example, and without limitation, the vehicle CPU or CAN
bus may transmit a signal indicating the vehicle speed, time of day, vehicle location, etc. In step
604, the contactless horn may process the signal received in step 603 to determine the
appropriate outcome corresponding to the received signal. In step 605, the contactless horn may
transmit a signal to the vehicle CPU, CAN bus, or vehicle-to-vehicle communication system
indicating operational instructions for a horn or audio system in surrounding vehicles. In step
606, the vehicle-to-vehicle communication system may transmit operational instructions to
vehicles located within a specified radius of the vehicle. In step 607, the CPU, CAN bus, or
vehicle-to-vehicle communication system of the surrounding vehicles may transmit the received
operational instructions to the respective contactless horns of the surrounding vehicles. In step
608, the contactless horns of the surrounding vehicles may process the received operational
instructions to determine the appropriate output. In step 609, the contactless horns of the
surrounding vehicles may transmit the appropriate operational instructions to their respective
CPU or CAN bus. In step 610, the CPU or CAN bus of the surrounding vehicle may transmit
operational signals to an internal sound device or audio system to generate sound according to
the operational signal.
                                                  12

[40]            Fig. 6 is a circuit diagram illustrating an electronic circuit for a contactless horn
and sound device according to an exemplary embodiment. The exemplary embodiment depicted
in Fig. 6 may include a power input stage 701, a voltage regulator 702, a microprocessor 703,
resistors 704 and 705, transistor 706 and output stage 707. Referring to Fig. 7, power is input to
the contactless horn circuit at power input stage 701. The input power is received as an input at
voltage regulator 702, which modifies the voltage level of the input power to an appropriate
voltage for microprocessor 703. Voltage regulator 702 outputs the modified voltage to an input
pin of microprocessor 703. Also connected to the same input pin of microprocessor 703 is
resistor 704, which is also in parallel with voltage regulator 702. The frequency of the signal
output by the microprocessor 703 is controlled by the resistance value of resistor 704. Resistor
705 is connected in parallel with resistor 704, and the resistance value of resistor 705 controls the
duty cycle of the signal output by the microprocessor 703. According to the resistance values of
resistors 704 and 705, microprocessor outputs a signal having a particular frequency and duty
cycle. The output signal of microprocessor 703 is received as input to transistor 706. According
to the exemplary embodiment of Fig. 6, transistor 706 may be a MOSFET transistor. Transistor
706 controls the signal output from microprocessor 703 and provides the output signal to output
stage 706, which generates a sound through the car horn based on the received output signal.
[41]            Although a few exemplary embodiments of the present general inventive concept
have been shown and described, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes
may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the
general inventive concept, the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their
equivalents.
                                                    13

What is claimed is:
         1.      An electronic contactless horn and sound device comprising:
         a replaceable electronic IC module that generates an electrical signal having at least one
of a preconfigured frequency and a preconfigured interval;
         an output driver that amplifies said electrical signal; and
         an electromagnet that manipulates a diaphragm based on said electrical signal;
         wherein said diaphragm does not contain a metal contact; and
         wherein the replaceable electronic IC module receives an input signal from one or more
vehicle sensors and generates said electrical signal based on said input signal.
         2.      The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein the
replaceable electronic IC module comprises at least one signal generator capable of generating a
signal having at least one of a preconfigured frequency and a preconfigured interval.
         3.      The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 2, wherein the
replaceable electronic IC module further comprises at least one sequencer capable of selecting
the frequency of the signal output by said at least one signal generator.
         4.      The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 3, wherein each of said
at least one signal generator comprises two or more timer chips that are each configured to
produce a set frequency signal.
         5.      The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein the input
signal received from one or more vehicle sensors indicates a status of a vehicle containing the
vehicle sensors.
         6.      The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein the
replaceable electronic IC module generates said electrical signal so as to modify one or more of
                                                   14

pitch, frequency, tone, interval, and volume of a sound generated by the diaphragm based on said
input signal.
         7.     The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 6, wherein said input
signal reflects one or more alarm statuses; and
         wherein said replaceable electronic IC module generates said electrical signal so as to
cause said diaphragm to produce a sound for each of said one or more alarm statuses.
         8.     The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 7, wherein a first sound
corresponding to a first alarm status has a different tone, pitch, frequency, interval, or volume
than a second sound corresponding to a second alarm status.
         9.     The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 7, wherein the
replaceable electronic IC module transmits an electronic message to a driver of a vehicle
containing the vehicle sensors notifying the driver of said one or more alarm statuses.
         10.    The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein said
replaceable electronic IC module receives the input signal from said vehicle sensors wirelessly.
         11.    The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein said
replaceable electronic IC module generates said electrical signal based on said input signal and
based on one or more of a manufacturer and model of a vehicle containing said vehicle sensors.
         12.    The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein the input
signal indicates a driver's distance from said vehicle sensors.
         13.    The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein the input
signal indicates a distance between a first vehicle containing said vehicle sensors and a second
vehicle.
                                                  15

         14.     The electronic contactless horn and sound device of claim 1, wherein said vehicle
sensors or said replaceable electronic IC module transmits said input signal to one or more sound
devices contained in one or more vehicles located within a specified radius of a vehicle
containing the vehicle sensors;
        wherein said input signal causes said sound devices contained in said one or more
vehicles located within the specified radius to generate a sound based on said input signal.
         15.     A replaceable electronic IC module for controlling an electronic contactless horn
and sound device, the replaceable electronic IC module comprising:
        at least one signal generator capable of generating a signal having at least one of a
preconfigured frequency and a preconfigured interval;
        wherein the replaceable electronic IC module receives an input signal from one or more
vehicle sensors and generates said signal based on said input signal.
         16.     The replaceable electronic IC module of claim 15, wherein the replaceable
electronic IC module further comprises at least one sequencer capable of selecting the frequency
of the signal output by said at least one signal generator.
         17.     The replaceable electronic IC module of claim 16, wherein each of said at least
one signal generator comprises two or more timer chips that are each configured to produce a set
frequency signal.
         18.     The replaceable electronic IC module of claim 15, wherein the replaceable
electronic IC module generates said signal so as to modify one or more of pitch, frequency, tone,
interval, and volume of a sound generated by a diaphragm of said electronic contactless horn and
sound device based on said input signal.
                                                  16

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
