ABSTRACT
        An electric vehicle service equipment (EVSE) system includes an EVSE case having a
front plug face, a rear face, and left and right gripping sides that collectively define a trapezoidal
prism cross section, the left and right gripping sides further having left and right convex gripping
portions, respectively, a relay positioned within the EVSE case, and a controller positioned
within the EVSE case and in communication with the relay, the controller responsive to a pilot
duty signal, when a pilot duty signal is present.
FIG. 2a

             4/15
                     82
                            FIG.1F
86                   88
                     70
                         73
        90
                  84
                         72
100         CaseD              rontw
                                     CaseH
    102
        106
             108              0
                        FIG. 2a

                             Portable Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application claims priority to and benefit of Provisional Patent Application No.
61/693,733 filed August 27, 2012, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference
herein for all purposes.
                                            BACKGROUND
Field of the Invention
         The field of the invention is electric vehicle (EV) charging, and more particularly electric
vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) that use AC utility power to charge the EVs.
Description of the Related Art
         Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general
knowledge in the field.
         Electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) may be used to charge electric vehicles (EV)
and may utilize standard AC utility power taken from a standard utility socket in the home or at
other locations to draw power. One example of a prior art EVSE is illustrated in FIG. la, with an
EVSE case 1 enclosing a power supply, controller and relays (not shown) to accept utility power
provided from a receptacle plug assembly 2 and power cord 3 for selective communication of the
power to a J1772 compliant connector 4.
                                               SUMMARY
         An electric vehicle service equipment (EVSE) system includes an EVSE case having a
front plug face, a rear face, and left and right gripping sides that collectively define a trapezoidal
prism cross section, the left and right gripping sides further having left and right convex gripping
portions, respectively; a relay positioned within the EVSE case; and a controller positioned
within the EVSE case and in communication with the relay, the controller responsive to a pilot
duty signal, when a pilot duty signal is present. In some embodiments, a portion of the rear face
has a base cutout to form a conning tower which may have a cable connected to the conning
tower at an orientation that is perpendicular to the front plug face so that the cable extends
initially parallel to the front plug face. In other embodiments, the distance from the front plug
face to the rear face may be less than or equal to 3.1 inches. Additionally the system may have

power and neutral plug blades extending from the front plug face; and a thermistor in thermal
communication with the power and neutral plug blades. In other embodiments the system may
have a transformer, which may be a flyback-based transformer. Additionally the system may
have an outdoor plug enclosure encompassing the EVSE case. In one embodiment, at least one
of the left and right gripping sides are at an angle (Anglex) of less than or equal to 72 degrees
with the front plug face.
         An electric vehicle service equipment (EVSE) system includes an interior tapered
electronics volume extending away from a front plug face, the interior tapered electronics
volume encompassing a relay and a relay controller positioned in an EVSE case, the relay
controller responsive to a pilot duty signal, when a pilot duty signal is present; and an expanding
volume complementary to the interior tapered electronics volume, the expanding volume defined
between an interior of an outdoor protective cover and an exterior of the interior tapered
electronics volume. In some embodiments, the interior tapered electronics volume is an interior
of an EVSE case.
         A method of operating an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) is disclosed that
comprises plugging an EVSE connector into an AC power outlet, pressing and holding a plug
release button on a SAE-J1772-compliant connector coupled to the EVSE connector for greater
than three seconds, releasing the plug release button, signaling a user that the SAE-J1772
compliant connector has entered a program mode, and pressing the plug release button at least
one time to select an electric vehicle (EV) current draw profile selected from the group
consisting of 1) a AC power frequency-dependent EV current draw, 2) a time-of-day dependent
current draw, and 3) a reduced current draw. The method may include monitoring a plug release
button signal in a controller to determine if the plug release button is being pressed, and exiting
the program mode in response to at least three seconds of plug release button inactivity.
         A method of determining faults in an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) is
disclosed that comprises applying a differential direct current (DC) bias voltage to first and
second output lines of a SAE-J 1772-compliant connector, and measuring respective voltages of
the first and second output lines to determine if a fault exists in the SAE-J1772-compliant
connector. The method may include indicating to a user a connector fault in response to either
the voltage of the first output or the voltage of the second output failing to attain its respective
DC bias voltage, so that the failure of either the voltage of the first output or the voltage of the
                                                2

second output failing to attain its respective DC bias voltage indicates an output line fault or
welded relay fault. The method may also include connecting the SAE-J 1772-compliant
connector to an electric vehicle (EV) charge connector, and may include indicating to a user a
connector fault in response to said measuring indicating a differential voltage of zero volts so
that the differential voltage of zero volts indicates a low impedance condition through the EV
charge connector. In such embodiments, the method may include indicating to a user a
connector fault in response to said measuring indicating only one of said first output and said
second output at zero volts so that the measured voltage of zero volts at the only one output
indicates the measured zero volts output line is shorted to ground. The method may also include
closing first and second relays in electrical communication with said first and second outputs,
respectively, measuring respective voltages of first and second input lines that are in electrical
communication with said first and second output lines, respectively, through first and second
relays, respectively, and indicating to a user a connector fault in response to said measuring
indicating said measured voltages of first and second input lines equal said measured voltages of
said first and second output lines, respectively so that the equal measured voltages indicate a
relay fault.
         A method of avoiding excessive electrical-induced heat is disclosed that comprises
measuring a plug blade temperature at a blade location between a power plug blade and neutral
plug blade of an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), measuring a reference temperature at
a location removed from the blade location, and calculating a temperature differential between
the plug blade temperature and reference temperature. The method may include stopping electric
vehicle (EV) charging in response to the temperature differential being greater than a
predetermined temperature differential limit, and may include reducing electric vehicle (EV)
charging in response to the temperature differential being greater than a predetermined
temperature differential limit.
         A method of avoiding excessive electrical-induced heat is disclosed that comprises
measuring a plug blade temperature at a blade location between a power plug blade and neutral
plug blade of an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), comparing the plug blade
temperature to a predetermined plug blade cut-off temperature, and stopping electric vehicle
(EV) charging in response to the plug blade temperature being greater than the predetermined
plug blade cut-off temperature.
                                                3

        A configurable AC plug apparatus is disclosed that comprises a rotatable first plug blade
on a plug body, a rotatable second plug blade on said plug body, said rotatable second plug blade
coupled to a switch armature, and an indicator switch on said plug body, said switch armature
coupled to close said indicator switch as said rotatable second plug switch rotates. The apparatus
may also comprise a controller in communication with the indicator switch, said controller
configured to receive a voltage signal indicating a voltage of said first plug blade and a voltage
of said second plug blade. The rotatable first plug, rotatable second plug, indicator switch and
controller may also be configured to identify use of the first and second plugs with at least one
National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) standardized AC power receptacle
selected from the group consisting of NEMA 5-15, 5-20, 6-15 and 6-20 receptacles.
        According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an electric vehicle
service equipment (EVSE) system, comprising:
        an EVSE case having a front plug face, a rear face, and left and right gripping sides that
collectively define a trapezoidal prism cross section, the left and right gripping sides further
having left and right convex gripping portions, respectively;
        a relay positioned within the EVSE case; and
        a controller positioned within the EVSE case and in communication with the relay, the
controller responsive to a pilot duty signal, when a pilot duty signal is present.
         According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided an electric
vehicle service equipment (EVSE) system, comprising:
        an interior tapered electronics volume extending away from a front plug face, the interior
tapered electronics volume encompassing a relay and a relay controller, the relay controller
responsive to a pilot duty signal, when a pilot duty signal is present; and
        an expanding volume complementary to the interior tapered electronics volume, the
expanding volume defined between an interior of an outdoor protective cover and an exterior of
the interior tapered electronics volume.
        According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
operating an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), comprising:
        plugging an EVSE connector into an AC power outlet;
        pressing and holding a plug release button on a SAE-J 1772-compliant connector coupled
to the EVSE connector for greater than three seconds;
        releasing the plug release button;
        signaling a user that the SAE-J 1772-compliant connector has entered a program mode;
and

         pressing the plug release button at least one time to select an electric vehicle (EV) current
draw profile selected from the group consisting of 1) a AC power frequency-dependent EV
current draw, 2) a time-of-day dependent current draw, and 3) a reduced current draw.
         According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
determining faults in an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), comprising:
         applying a differential direct current (DC) bias voltage to first and second output lines of
a SAE-J1772-compliant connector; and
         measuring respective voltages of the first and second output lines to determine if a fault
exists in the SAE-J 1772-compliant connector.
         According to a fifth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
avoiding excessive electrical-induced heat, comprising:
         measuring a plug blade temperature at a blade location between a power plug blade and
neutral plug blade of an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE);
         measuring a reference temperature at a location removed from the blade location; and
calculating a temperature differential between the plug blade temperature and reference
temperature.
         According to a sixth aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
avoiding excessive electrical-induced heat, comprising:
         measuring a plug blade temperature at a blade location between a power plug blade and
neutral plug blade of an electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE);
         comparing the plug blade temperature to a predetermined plug blade cut-off temperature;
and
         stopping electric vehicle (EV) charging in response to the plug blade temperature being
greater than the predetermined plug blade cut-off temperature.
         According to a seventh aspect of the present invention there is provided a configurable
AC plug apparatus, comprising:
         a rotatable first plug blade on a plug body;
         a rotatable second plug blade on said plug body, said rotatable second plug blade coupled
to a switch armature; and
         an indicator switch on said plug body, said switch armature coupled to close said
indicator switch as said rotatable second plug switch rotates.
         It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
         Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims,
the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as

opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not
limited to".
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Embodiments are illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the FIGS. of the
accompanying drawing, and in which:
        FIG. la is a prior art drawing of an EVSE system that has an EVSE case and enclosed
controller and contactors remote from a receptacle plug blade assembly;
        FIG. lb is a system diagram illustrating one embodiment of an EVSE plugged into a
power outlet with a protective cover to charge an EV;
        FIG. lc is a cross-sectional side view of an embodiment of an EVSE and power outlet
and protective enclosure;
        FIG. Id is a cross-sectional side view of an embodiment of an EVSE and power outlet
and protective enclosure;
        FIG. le is a cross-sectional top view of an embodiment of an EVSE and power outlet and
protective enclosure;
        FIG. If is a perspective view of an embodiment of an EVSE and power outlet and
protective enclosure;
        FIG. 2a is a perspective view of one embodiment of an EVSE case that has left and right
gripping sides forming an acute angle of less than 720 with the front plug face to facilitate use
with common outdoor plug enclosures;
        FIG. 2b is a top plan view of the EVSE case illustrated in FIG. 1;
        FIG. 3 is a side view of the EVSE case illustrated in FIG. 1;

         FIG. 4a is a front left perspective view of one embodiment of a EVSE case containing a
stacked two-part system board system to promote unit size reduction and manufacturing
efficiencies of components;
         FIG. 4b is a rear left side perspective view of the stacked two-part system board system
illustrated in FIG. 4a;
         FIG. 5a and b are cross-sectional views embodiments of a EVSE case containing a
stacked two-part system board system to promote unit size reduction and manufacturing
efficiencies of components.
         FIG. 6 is a left plan view of the stacked two-part system board system illustrated in FIGS.
4 and 5;
         FIG. 7 is a front left perspective view illustrating one embodiment of a system of
temperature sensors used in the EVSE case to sense a near ambient or reference temperature and
the temperature near a receptacle plug blade assembly;
         FIG. 8 is a front right perspective view illustrating the temperature sensor system
illustrated in FIG, 7;
         FIG. 9 is a left plan view of the temperature sensor system illustrated in FIGS. 7 and 8;
         FIG. 10 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a means to avoid excessive heat
that may cause damage to the receptacle plug blade assembly using measurement of the absolute
temperature taken adjacent the plug blade assembly;
         FIG. 11 is a flow diagram illustrating another embodiment of a means to avoid excessive
heat that may cause damage to the receptacle plug blade assembly using temperature differential
measurements;
         FIG. 12 is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of an EVSE system;
         FIG. 13 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of an EVSE programming method
to enable a user to select frequency-dependent power balancing current draw, time-dependent
current draw, to upload new software into the EVSE or to select a reduced current draw;
         FIG. 14 is a schematic illustrating one embodiment of an EV plug proximity sense circuit
that may be used to accomplish the EVSE programming method described in FIG. 13;
         FIG. 15 is a front perspective view of an EVSE power plug assembly configurable to
operate with National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) 5-15, 5-20, 6-15 and 6-20
                                                5

standardized AC power receptacles, with the power and neutral plug blades rotated to illustrate
use with a NEMA 5-15 AC power receptacle;
         FIG. 16 is a rear perspective view of the EVSE power plug assembly illustrated in FIG.
14, with the power and neutral plug blades rotated to illustrate use with a NEMA 5-20 AC power
receptacle;
         FIG. 17 is a rear perspective view of the EVSE power plug assembly illustrated in FIG.
14;
         FIG. 18 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method to use DC biasing to
determine bipolar output impedance and welded contact faults for the EVSE system; and
         FIG. 19 is a system diagram illustrating one embodiment of an EVSE plugged into an AC
utility circuit to charge an EV.
         FIG. 20 is a side view of an embodiment being ran over by the tire of a vehicle.
         FIGS. 21A and 21B are perspective and top views of an EVSE plugged into a power
outlet that has protective enclosures for respective receptacles, the protective enclosures each
operable to open to a maximum angle (Anglex) of less than or equal to approximately 72 degrees
with the front receptacle face.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         FIGS. lb-e show an embodiment of a system with an electric vehicle supply equipment
EVSE, power outlet and protective enclosure, where the EVSE is sized and configured to fit
within, or at least substantially within, a protective enclosure when connected to a power outlet.
Further shown is the EVSE power cord being routed from the EVSE case within the protective
enclosure out to a connector for providing power to an electric vehicle.
         FIG lb is a system diagram illustrating one embodiment of the EVSE plugged into a
power outlet with a protective cover to charge an electric vehicle. In embodiments, the system 5
includes the EVSE 10 and the power source 50, where the EVSE 10 may be connected or
plugged into the power source 50 and is capable of connecting to an electric vehicle. The EVSE
10 includes a connector 12 having electrical contacts for connecting to the electric vehicle, which
in embodiments can be a J1772 compliant connector, a power and data cord 14, and a case or
enclosure 16 for connecting to the power source 50. The power source 50 may include a power
outlet 54 for connecting to the EVSE 10 and for providing power thereto, and a protective
                                               6

enclosure or cover 52 (alternatively an outdoor enclosure or cover, or weather enclosure or
cover) for receiving the case 16 and at least a portion of the cord 14. For safety, the EVSE 10
functions to only supply power to the electric vehicle after it has been connected to the vehicle
and received a signal indicating that the vehicle is ready to receive power from the EVSE 10. In
this manner, and unlike a typical power cord, neither the electric contacts, the connector 12 nor
the cable 14 is supplied power unless the EVSE 10 is properly connected to the vehicle. This is
achieved by a set of contactors (alternatively called a "relay" or "relays") positioned in the case
16 that control the flow of power into the cord and connector.         In embodiments, the set of
contactors are two contactors, one inline with each of the two power lines or wires carrying
power from the power outlet 54 or between the power source 50 and the EVSE 10. These
contactors are operated by a control system which is also located within the case 16, and which is
capable of communicating with the vehicle, or at least receiving signals from the vehicle, via a
data or pilot line contained within the cable 14 and which is connected to the vehicle when the
connector 12 is connected to the electric vehicle. The EVSE control system includes a contactor
tester that can determine if the contactor is open or closed allowing the EVSE to provide a
warning if a contactor is not in its proper or commanded state. The EVSE's contactor tester
allows the EVSE to utilize a minimum of two contactors and thereby reduce the overall size of
the case of the EVSE such that the case will fit within the protective cover 52. The protective
cover 52 can be any of a variety of commercially available outdoor plug enclosures, with the
case 16 being sized and shaped to fit within and/or be received by such commercial enclosures,
such that each of external dimensions of the case 16 are less than the smallest corresponding
internal dimensions and volumes of the commercially available outdoor plug enclosures, or a
majority or substantial number of such enclosures. In embodiments, the case 16 is sized and
shaped to define a void or empty volume between the case 16 and the protective cover 52, which
can be utilized to receive a portion of the cable 14, such that that portion of the cable 14 can be
maneuvered within the protective cover 52. The maneuvering of the portion of cable 14 within
the void can facilitate positioning the cable 14 to exit an opening in the cover 52 and/or to allow
the case 16 to be set in alternative positions, such as being inverted to be plugged into an
inverted or 'hospital' configuration or orientation of the power outlet 54 (such as that shown in
FIG if).
                                              7

         FIG Ic is a cross-sectional side view and schematic of an embodiment of an EVSE,power
outlet and protective enclosure. In embodiments, the EVSE 10 includes the cord 14 and the case
16 and is shown plugged into the power outlet 54 of the power source 50 and within the
protective cover 52. The EVSE 10 shown includes a control system 20 that is connected to a
pilot line, which in turn may be connected to an electric vehicle via the connector 12 (not shown).
The control system 20 is further connected to a set of contactors, relays or switches 26 and 28,
which function to control the flow of power from the power source 50 to the vehicle. The
control system 20 operates to open or close the contactor 26 and/or 28 as directed by the status of
the pilot signal on the pilot line, including as directed by the vehicle or when the pilot line is
disconnected from the vehicle. The control system 20 can include a contactor controller 22 and a
contactor monitor 24. The contactor controller 22 controls the operation of the contactor 26
and/or 28. The contactor monitor 24 checks that the operation or position of contactor 26 and/or
28 matches their commanded position or positions. In the event the contactor monitor 24 detects
that either contactor 26 and/or 28 are not functioning as commanded, the contactor monitor 24
will indicate an error has occurred in the operation of the EVSE 10. Such indication may be by
illuminating a warning light (such as light 212).
         As shown in FIGS lb and c, by positioning the case 16, and more specifically the
contactors 26 and 28 at, adjacent, substantially abutting, or at least near the outlet 54 of the
power supply 50, the remaining portion of the EVSE 10 after the contactors 26 and 28 will not
have power or otherwise be energized, until and unless the EVSE 10 is connected to the vehicle
and is provided a command to allow power to flow past the connectors 26 and 28, That is, this
configuration of the EVSE 10, maximizes safety by minimizing, or reducing, the portion of the
EVSE 10 that is energized without a the EVSE 10 being commanded by the vehicle to provide
power thereto.      Prior EVSEs were not as safe, as the cases containing the power relays were
positioned along the power cord a distance from the power outlet, such that a substantial length
of the cord separated relays from the power outlet, as such this section of the cord always
energized when the EVSE was plugged into the outlet, regardless of the operation of the relays.
         FIGS Id and le are side and top block diagrams, respectfully, of an embodiment of an
EVSE, power outlet and protective enclosure. In embodiments, the case 16 includes a connector
or plug 18 that can be received by the power outlet 56 of the power source. The internal volume
of case 16 includes a narrow region 30 that is sized to contain smaller components 32 of the
                                              8

control and power systems of the EVSE, such as processors, resistors and the like. The internal
volume further includes a wider region 40 which is sized to contain larger components 42 of the
control and power systems of the EVSE, such as contactors, relays, switches and the like. The
narrow and wider regions (30, 40) may collectively form an interior tapered electronics volume
that extends away from a front plug face 44 and that contains various electrical components of
the EVSE. When enclosed by a protective cover 52, the volume not otherwise encompassed by
the case 16 and its interior tapered electronics volume, defines an expanding volume 46
complementary to the case 16 and its interior tapered electronics volume. By positioning the
smaller components of the EVSE in a defined region of the case 16, the case 16 can be made
smaller or narrower at that location and allow a space (i.e., the expanding volume 46) to be
defined within the protective cover 52 that is large enough to allow a portion of the cord 14 to be
positioned adjacent to the case 16.     In this manner the cord 14 can be positioned to allow or
facilitate use with the protective cover 52, for example the cord 14 may have to be doubled back
to reach the pass-through or opening of the protective cover 52, as shown in FIG. lf. FIG. If
shows an EVSE case 70 positioned within a protective cover 82 of an outdoor plug enclosure
coupled to a power outlet 84, with the cord 72 doubled back through a space 90 that is defined by
the narrow region 73 of case 70 and the internal walls 88 of the cover 82. This allows the cord
72 to be positioned to pass through the opening 86 when the cover 82 is in the closed position.
The defined space 90 also allows the case 70 to be positioned in alternative orientations, such as
upside down, in order to connect with power outlets of various orientations (such as a 'hospital'
configuration).
         FIGS. 2a, 2b and 3 illustrate different views of an EVSE case. More particularly, FIG. 2a
is a perspective view of one embodiment of an EVSE case 100 suitable for use with a variety of
common outdoor plug enclosures. The case 100 has two case housing shells (102, 104), with a
case height (Caseji) and a case front width (Frontw) that may generally approximate the front
dimensions of an outdoor plug enclosure. A case depth (Casen) may generally approximate the
interior depth of an outdoor plug enclosure that provides power while-in-use protection from the
environment so that the EVSE case 100 may fit inside an outdoor plug enclosure while closed.
         The power and signal cabling 106 may be manufactured as a molded subassembly and
hardwired to other components in the EVSE case 100 to extend longitudinally from an interior to
an exterior of the EVSE case 100 at a base cutout 108. The location of connection of the cable
                                               9

106 (shown as including a strain relief apparatus positioned about the cable) with the case 100 is
positioned at least generally behind, or in line with the plug 214, such that the displacement or
lever arm for the force imparted or otherwise applied onto the case 100 by the cable 106, such as
that occurring by a lateral or outwards pulling on the cable 106, is minimized, thus in turn
minimizing any torsional force or moment placed on to the case 100. This reduction of moment
force on the EVSE, in turn will reduce or prevent rotation of the device out of a power outlet (not
shown), such as that shown by arrow R, and/or reduce the forces and moments applied to the
power outlet by the device by forces, such as that shown as force F, being applied to the cable
106. In embodiments, the length of CordH, as shown in Fig. 3, is such that the location of cable
106 connection to the case 100 is in-line, generally in-line or at least substantially in-line with
the plug 214. Also, in embodiments, the case length CaseD is minimized to further reduce the
imparting of moment forces on the case 100 and onto the power outlet by the EVSE.
        FIG. 2b is a top plan view illustrating left and right gripping sides (200, 202) that, with a
front plug face 204 and rear face 206, collectively form a trapezoidal prism cross section with
left and right convex gripping portions (208, 210) on left and right gripping sides, respectively
(200, 202). Left and right gripping sides (200, 202) may form an acute angle Anglex of less than
720 with the front plug face 204 to enable a front cover of a typical commercially available
exterior outdoor plug cover or enclosure (such as those shown in FIGS 21A and B) to fully open
and accept the EVSE case 100. In embodiments, the Anglex can vary to match or correspond to
the angle of the outdoor outlet cover, such as being greater that 450, between 450 and 90*,
between about 60* and 80* and about 700 to 80, and about or substantially 720. Consequently,
the front plug face 204 may be of a smaller length than the rear face 206. In one embodiment,
the left and right convex gripping portions (208, 210) form a ledge or other indentation that is
thinner than the rear face 206 to enable a user to better grip the left and right convex gripping
portions (208, 210) to pull the EVSE case 100 out of an outdoor plug enclosure. LED light 212
may be presented to an exterior of the EVSE case 100 to provide a user interface for the user.
        FIG. 3 illustrates a side view of the EVSE case 100 illustrated in FIG. 2. The power and
signal cabling 106 may extend longitudinally out from an interior of the EVSE case 100 through
a conning tower 304 (alternatively, a raised or extended section 304 for receiving the cable 106)
at an orientation that is initially perpendicular to the front plug face 204. The cabling 106 may
extend in a direction opposite from a top surface 300 of the EVSE case 100 prior to reaching a
                                              10

radius of curvature bounded by a bottom plug face 302 to enable the remainder of the power and
signaling cable 106 to flex outwardly from the body of the EVSE case 100 in any direction.
         The shape of the EVSE case 100 maybe determined from the available volume envelope
of the most common outdoor plug in enclosure types. In one exemplary design, the EVSE case
100 is designed to be inserted into an outdoor plug enclosure for Level 1 and 2 charging, and the
case may have the following dimensions according to Table I (dimensions given in inches).
                                             Backw      0.5-2
                                             Gw         0.625-1.0
                                             Frontw     1.5-2.125
                                             Cases      3.0-4.0
                                             Cordu      1.0-2.2
                                             CaseD      2.54.75
                                             BaseD      2-3
                                                   Table 1.
         In another embodiment of a EVSE case 100 defining a trapezoidal prism, the rear face
206 is not parallel with the front plug face 204 but has a maximum length CaseD.
         With these dimensions, essentially long and parallel in aspect ratio with respect to the
direction of the plug blades, the unit will be less likely to be positioned with the plug blades
facing up if the device is placed or is dropped on the ground.      This aspect ratio will therefore
prevent in most instances the blades from being stepped on or driven over perpendicular to the
blades' longitudinal axis, thus reducing the opportunity for irreparably damaged blades that may
result in an inoperable or unsafe device. As shown in FIG 20, the EVSE 2000 is laying on its
side 2004 as the tire of a vehicle drives over the EVSE 2000. The corner 2008 receives the tire
and thus creates a space for the plug assembly 2006 such that the plug 2006 is not contacted (or
at least limited contact) or damaged (at least not substantially damaged) by the tire.
         FIGS. 4a, 4b, 5 and 6 illustrate a two-part system board, including a power board and a
control/sensing board in the EVSE case 100 to promote unit size reduction. More particularly,
FIGS. 4a and b are front left and rear left side perspective views illustrating a power board 400
stacked on a logic board 402. The logic board 402 may have processors or specialized control
                                              11

circuits for controlling the power board 400. In another embodiment, the board stack positions
are reversed. The separation of logic controls on one board and power elements on the other
board allows for the design of multiple control boards that may connect to a family of power
boards. This provides the capability of using different processors or specialized control circuits
for particular applications. For example, the logic board 402 may be programmed to be operable
with different power boards, thereby allowing economy of scale with respect to the manufacturer
and assembly of control boards, while allowing for greater customization of power boards. In
alternative embodiments, one or both of the power board 400 and logic board 402 may be split
into two or more boards for assembly into the EVSE case 100.
         The power board 400 is in electrical communication with a plug assembly 404 that may
be detachably coupled to the EVSE case 100. The plug assembly 404 may be configured with a
resister (not shown) or other electrical component that may sensed by the power board or control
board to identify the plug assembly 404 for use with a particular countries electrical plug
configuration. If the power board 400 is to be sold and used in one country, for example, a plug
assembly may be provided by the manufacturer, distributor or retailer that is configured for that
country, and the power or control board may automatically identify the included plug assembly
404 by means of the resistor or other electrical component to properly configuration output of the
EVSE accordingly. In an alternative embodiment, the plug assembly 404 may be provided with
a physical identifier that may be read by the EVSE to identify the physical configuration of the
plug assembly 404 to properly drive output of the EVSE according to the country or region in
which it is sold and used.
         FIGS. 5a and b are cross-sectional views of embodiments of the EVSE with the control
and power boards positioned in alternative ways.        The position of these cross-sections are
indicated by the line 5-5 in FIG. 6. In both FIGS 5a and b, the larger components of the boards
are positioned near the wider portions 112 of the case 100.   In FIG. 5a the power board 400 and
the control board 402 are positioned generally aligned with the external walls of the case 100,
such that a larger space 114 is defined within or near the wider portion 112, then that of the
narrower portion 110. This space 114 allows for the positioning of larger components, such as
component 410, of the boards 400 and 402, while minimizing the overall volume of the case 100,
by positioning the smaller components 408 within or near to the narrower portion 110. Such
larger components may include the power contactors or relays, and the like. FIG 5b shows
                                              12

another embodiment wherein the power board 400' and the control board 402' are positioned
generally aligned and centered in the case 100. In this configuration the larger components 410'
and 412' are positioned in the larger spaces 116' and 118', with the smaller components 408' in
the narrower portion 110.
        FIG. 6 is a left side plan view illustrating the power board 400 filling substantially all of
the EVSE case 100. In an alternative embodiment, either or both of the power board 400 and the
logic board 402 may extend only partially through the EVSE case 100.
        In an alternative embodiment, the separation of logic controls on one board and power
elements on the other board allows for the design of a power board that may connect to a family
of control boards. This provides the capability of using different processors or specialized control
circuits for particular applications. For example, the power board 400 may be configured to
operate with a particular voltage, allowing economy of scale with respect to the manufacturer
and assembly of power boards. For example, while 240V may be available in both the United
States and Europe, different EV standards may necessitate particular control boards for that
single power board design.
        FIGS, 7, 8, and 9 illustrate front left and rear left side perspective views and a left plan
view, respectively, with each view illustrating temperature sensors for sensing a reference
temperature and the temperature near a receptacle plug blade assembly. In FIG. 7, the receptacle
plug blade assembly 700 has power and neutral plug blades (702, 704) and a grounding pin 706.
A plug blade temperature sensor, such as a plug blade temperature thermistor 708, may be seated
on the power board 400 and in thermal communication with the power and neutral plug blades
(702, 704). In one embodiment, the plug blade temperature thermistor 708 may be embedded in
a potting material in contact with the power and neutral plug blades (702, 704), to monitor the
receptacle plug blade assembly 700 for any significant temperature rise that may be indicative of
a faulty connection. For example, a primary indication of a faulty connection between either of
the blades and an AC receptacle is heat experienced at the plug blade assembly 700. This heat
may be generated by the load current passing through a high impedance caused by the bad socket
connection. The bad socket connection may be the result of damaged contact surfaces, small
contact points, or foreign material that is not very conductive. The surfaces of the power and
neutral plug blades (702, 704) may be damaged by oxidation due to heat or chemical
contamination. This can result in a surface that is oxidized or sulfated and the contact resistance
                                              13

increases with this condition. A plug blade that is deformed may have a very small point of
contact between the plug and socket pins. In this case, the entire load current must pass through a
small cross section of metal and this increases the local heating of that section of the AC plug.
The presence of a foreign material on the contact surfaces may also cause a smaller point-to
point area that may also result in a localized hot spot. Heat generated by any of these problems
can result in a thermal runaway condition in which, as the heat continues to be generated, the
blade gets worse over time and the problem escalates until a dangerous level may be reached
which may result in the receptacle plug blade assembly melting or combustion occurring. In
order to detect such a condition, in one embodiment, the plug blade temperature thermistor 708
is seated in potting material between and immediately adjacent to the power and neutral plug
blades (702, 704). The heat that is experienced by the socket will be conducted to either or both
of the power and neutral plug blades (702, 704) resulting in an increase in the temperature sensed
by the plug blade temperature thermistor 708. In a non-preferred alternative embodiment, the
plug blade temperature thermistor 708 is positioned at a point that is not approximately
equidistant between the power and neutral plug blades (702, 704), but rather is positioned closer
to one or the other of the power and neutral plug blades (702, 704).
        A plug reference temperature sensor that is a reference temperature thermistor 710 may
be seated on the power board 400 or on the logic board 402 and positioned remotely from the
plug blade temperature thermistor 708 to provide differential temperature readings. In a preferred
embodiment, the plug blade temperature thermistor 708 and reference temperature thermistor
710 are located as far away from each other as is practicable within the EVSE case to enable the
reference temperature thermistor to measure near-ambient temperature conditions during
operation. The enclosure, thermally conductive materials, and any local heating sources inherent
in the system define the thermal gradient between the two sensors.
        FIG. 10 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a means to avoid excessive heat
that may cause damage to the receptacle plug blade assembly due to a faulty connection by using
the absolute temperature measured immediately adjacent the blade assembly. A plug blade
temperature (Tv) is read from the plug blade temperature thermistor that is positioned between
the power and neutral plug blades (block 1000). If the sensor indicates the plug blade
temperature (Tp) is greater than a predetermined cutoff temperature (Tct), the EVSE may
respond by modifying the pilot signal to stop power drawn by the EV (block 1004). Otherwise,
                                             14

charging may continue and the plug blade temperature thermistor continues to monitor the plug
blade temperature (T,) for comparison against the predetermined cutoff temperature (Tcur)
(blocks 1000, 1002). The predetermined cutoff temperature (Tctrr) may be determined by the
expectation of what normal operation at a worst-case reference temperature might be. For
example, assuming a worst-case reference temperature of 700 C and a chosen rise above
reference temperature to be 40 C, then the predetermined cutoff temperature (TCuTr) would be
1100 C (400 C+ 70* C= 110 C). In one embodiment, rather than shutting down charging, the
EVSE responds by reducing, rather than eliminating, charge drawn by the EV (block 1006)
through suitable modification of the pilot signal sent to the EV. In this embodiment, the EVSE
modifies the pilot signal in response to measurements taken by the plug blade temperature
thermistor without regard to the temperature indicated at the reference temperature thermistor.
        FIG. 11 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a means to avoid excessive heat
that may cause damage to the receptacle plug blade assembly by using a temperature differential
calculated using measurements taken by the plug blade temperature thermistor and reference
temperature thermistor. The plug blade temperature (Tp) is sensed by the plug blade temperature
thermistor (block 1100) and the reference temperature is sensed by the reference temperature
thermistor (block 1102). A temperature differential (TD) is calculated (block 1104) and that
calculated temperature differential (To) is compared against a predetermined temperature
differential limit (T,) (block 1106). The predetermined temperature differential limit (T,) is
decided on for a reading difference based on the expectation of the bad contact generating heat.
In one embodiment, the predetermined temperature differential limit (T,) may be 500 C. If the
temperature differential (To) does not exceed the predetermined temperature differential limit
(TM), then the plug blade temperature and reference temperature sensors continue to monitor the
receptacle plug blade and reference temperatures, respectively, and the temperature differential
(To) continues to be compared against the temperature differential limit (TM) (blocks 1100, 1104,
1106). If the temperature differential exceeds the temperature differential limit (TM) (block 1106),
then the EVSE may respond by sending a pilot signal that shuts down EVSE charging (block
1108).   In an alternative embodiment, the EVSE may respond by sending a pilot signal that
reduces charge current to the EV (block 1110). In such embodiments, the charge current
reduction may be accomplished as a step function, a ramp function down to a steady-state
reduction or such reduction in current may be proportional to the calculated temperature
                                             15

differential (To) such that the temperature differential (To) is maintained below the temperature
differential limit (T,) as result of active control of the charge current reduction. In one
embodiment, more complex variations of this test may include the absolute temperature readings
of the two sensors used as scalars of the temperature differential limit (TM). In another
embodiment, the rate of rise of a measured temperature at a temperature sensor may indicate the
amount of wattage that is entering the system from the blade location. Because the EVSE has a
specific thermal mass, the rate of rise of the overall body temperature will be defined by the
blade temperature, reference temperature, enclosure physics and the amount of temperature
increase in a given time span.
        FIG. 12 illustrates one embodiment of an EVSE system 1200 that uses AC utility power
to charge electric vehicles. The system is operable to plug into an AC source that may be
120VAC-60Hz, 250VAC-60Hz (split phase) or 230VAC 50Hz (80VAC to 264VAC) via a
standard NEMA or CEE7/7 plug from a standard household utility socket. The AC power is
routed to a GFI Monitor 1202 that is a GFI/RCD (Ground Fault Interrupter/Residual Current
Device current sensor) through relays 1204 for presentation to an EV charge cable 1206. The
relays 1204 are normally open (N. 0.) when de-energized, so logic power must be present in
order to initiate and maintain the relay-closed condition. The mechanical relays open/close
operation is driven by the relay control driver and fault latch 1207. The GFI monitor 1202 relay
control driver and fault latch controller 1207 collectively provide a robust hardware safety
system. A controller 1208 receives line voltage signals from an AC voltage monitor 1210
through an analog multiplexor 1212, with the AC voltage monitor 1210 monitoring the voltage
on Line 1 and Line 2 and across the relays 1204 for communication to the controller 1208. The
controller 1208 includes a microprocessor and control monitoring electronics, with logic power
being supplied by a POWER SUPPLY 1209 that may be a flyback transformer based power
supply to allow for use of the EVSE system 1200 in different power environments. The prime
function of the controller 1208 is to use the inputs from the vehicle connector and utility to allow
or disallow the relays to open and close. It allows closure when conditions are normal and
ensures the relays open in any safety required fault or disconnection event. It obtains its
operating power from the utility at the input of the EVSE system 1200.
        A charge coupler 1214 such as an SAE-J1772 or IEC-62196 Type II, Mode 2 compliant
connector is in communication with the EV charge cable 1206 to feed the AC power to an EV
                                              16

(not shown) that may be coupled to the charge coupler. The EV (now shown) may contain an
on-board charger that then converts the AC power to DC power to charge the vehicle batteries.
For example, in preparation to operate the EVSE system 1200, the connector is attached by the
user to the vehicle receptacle for charging sessions. The vehicle is the primary system
component per SAE-J1772/IEC62196 that communicates charging status and completion to the
user, however the controller 1208 may be designed to provide a primary pilot signal through the
pilot driver and monitor 1215, with the pilot signal established between the EVSE and the
vehicle per SAE-J1772 prior to closing the relays 1204. The pilot signal is passed through the
charge cable 1206 to the vehicle, and may have a peak amplitude of +/- 12 V and a PWM (Pulse
Width Modulation). Per SAE-JI 772, the duty cycle of the pilot PWM signal is used by the EVSE
system 1200 to communicate the maximum power amperage limit that the EVSE system 1200
may supply to the vehicle. The pilot signal voltage amplitude and modulation characteristics are
used to indicate a proper connection, charging requirements and default status between the
vehicle and the EVSE system 1200.
        Also included in the EVSE system 1200 may be a plug blade temperature thermistor
1216 positioned and potted in thermal communication with plug blades 1218 of a receptacle plug
blade assembly 1220, with the plug blade temperature thermistor 1216 in communication with
the controller 1208. A reference temperature thermistor 1222 is positioned remotely from the
plug blade temperature thermistor 1216 to enable measurement of differential temperatures at
such locations, and is also in communication with the controller 1208. With inclusion of the plug
blade temperature thermistor 1216 and reference temperature thermistor 1222, means are provide
for avoiding excessive heat that may cause damage to the receptacle plug blade assembly by
using either an absolute temperature as measured at the receptacle plug blade assembly or a
temperature differential calculated using measurements taken by the plug blade temperature
thermistor and reference temperature thermistor to enable intelligent control of the EV charging
current through modulation of the pilot signal sent by the controller 1208.
        The EVSE system 1200 may have a user interface 1224 that may include an LED light or
lights and one or more switch inputs that are in communication with the controller 1208. In one
embodiment, the LED light is one green LED. When the EVSE system 1200 is not plugged into
a wall outlet, the LED may be off. When the EVSE system 1200 is plugged into a wall outlet and
is not charging (stand-by state) the LED may be solid on. During the charging state, the LED
                                            17

will display a smooth transition from fully on to barely visible. The trouble codes may be
depicted through various flash rates of the LED that will be distinctly different from the other
states. Because the EVSE system 1200 is able to communicate through the charge coupler 1214,
in one embodiment, the charge coupler 1214 maybe connected to a personal computer to
configure the EVSE system 1200 for a maximum current rating for a particular region. Software
embedded or otherwise stored and used by the controller 1208 may be updated through the
charge coupler 1214 to make upgrades in the field very easy (see FIG. 13). Also included in the
EVSE system 1200 is a missing ground detector 1226 in electrical communication with both line
1 and line 2 to provide missing ground current and missing ground voltage signals to the
controller 1208.    As shown more particularly in FIG. 17, a proximity monitor 1228 is in
electrical communication with the charge coupler 1214 through the EV charge cable 1206 to
enable EVSE programming such as that described in FIG. 13, below. A DC bias circuit is
provided through bias resisters R. 1230 and Ry 1232 (preferably 300k ohms, each) in electrical
communication with Line 1 and Line 2, respectively, to enable bipolar output impedance and
welded contact tests as described more fully, below.
        FIG. 13 illustrates a flow diagram of one embodiment of a system of using a plug release
button on an EV connector and the user interface on the EVSE system to enable or program
features of the EVSE system. An EVSE is plugged into an AC source (block 1300) and a user
may hold a plug release button (block 1302). If the button is held for a predetermined period of
time, such as 3 seconds (test 1314), then a signal may be sent to a user interface that the EVSE
system is entering a program mode (block 1316). If the button is not held for 3 seconds prior to
release (test 1314) then a controller of the EVSE continues to monitor for a signal indicating plug
release activation (block 1302). Subsequent to entering the program mode (block 1316), the
controller monitors the signal indicating plug release button activation and, if the button is
inactive for 3 seconds (test 1318), program mode ends (block 1320). Otherwise, a user may press
and release the plug release button a number of times to cycle through a variety of possible
program operational modes or operational parameter set-value operational states. For example, if
the user presses the plug release button one time and then releases for a period of over three
seconds, the EVSE system may enter a frequency-dependent power balancing current draw
mode (block 1322) wherein modulation of the pilot signal is dependent on a measured frequency
of the AC utility power. In one embodiment, if the AC utility power frequency drops from 60 Hz
                                              18

to 50 Hz in either a 120VAC-60Hz or 250VAC-6OHz (split phase) utility power system, the
EVSE system may drive the pilot signal to request a reduction in the maximum EV power draw
from 100% to 60%. In another embodiment, if the user presses the plug release button twice
within a period of three seconds (blocks 1322, 1324) and then releases the plug release button for
more than three seconds (test 1318), the EVSE system may enter a time-dependent current draw
program mode (block 1324). In this mode, the controller may provide a pilot signal to the EV
that varies the EV maximum charge rate according to a local time schedule that minimizes the
cost of charging the EV, such as by allowing maximum charging at night but restricting the EV
maximum charge rate during more expensive day rates.           In another embodiment, if the user
presses the plug release button three times within a period of three seconds (blocks 1322, 1324,
1326) and then releases the plug release button for more than 3 seconds (test 1318), the EVSE
system may enter a program mode to allow download or upload of new software into the
controller of the EVSE system (block 1326).        In one embodiment, the pilot voltage may be
switched from voltages defined in SAE J1772, such as 6 V, 9 V, or 12 V, to a non-standard
voltage that may be a carrier signal for data upload to the EVSE over the pilot voltage signal. In
another embodiment, if the user presses the plug release button four times within a period of
three seconds (blocks 1322, 1324, 1326, 1328) and then releases the plug release button for more
than 3 seconds (test 1318), the EVSE system may enter a program mode in which the controller
may provide a pilot signal to the EV that reduces the EV maximum charge rate to 60%, 40%, or
to another pre-determined rate (block 1328) to reduce the burden on the utility circuit in the case
a known current constraint on the utility circuit. After entering each relevant program mode, the
controller may return to monitoring the plug release button for indication of a further program
mode change (block 1302) (test 1314). In each of the embodiments described, above, rather than
pressing and releasing the plug release button to cycle through modes, the user may, in one
embodiment, press and hold the plug release button while the controller enables stepping through
the various available modes. In such an embodiment, the user may release the plug button when
the desired programming mode has been presented, such as through a visual indication on the
user interface, through an audible tone, or by another means. In addition to the programming
modes and features described, above, other programming modes or features may be selected or
activated using similar plug release button cycling.
                                             19

        FIG. 14 is a schematic illustrating one embodiment of an EV plug proximity sense circuit
that may be used to accomplish the EVSE programming method described in FIG. 13, according
to the proximity monitor 1228 illustrated in FIG. 12. Referring to FIGS. 12 and 14, SAE J1772
provides for a plug insertion-removal identification method using a Proximity signal. The EV
(not shown) uses a proximity circuit to detect when the EV's charging plug is being engaged or
disengaged. This is accomplished through use of a switch S3 connected to the interlock
mechanism (PINS 5 and 3) of the EV cable plug. The switch S3 signals the EV that the interlock
mechanism is opened which means that a connect or disconnect of the EV's charging plug is in
process. The EV controller 1208 then presumes that the load current as driven by the pilot driver
& monitor 1215 should be discontinued so that an electric are or spark will not occur if the
power connection is broken. A secondary use of this signal allows the EVSE system 1200 to use
the switch S3 to control EVSE program operation for added features. In one embodiment, a 5
VDC bias is applied to resistor R4 (preferably 330 ohms) which then branches out to RI
(preferably 2700 ohms) and to the R2-R3-S3 circuit in the plug (preferably 330 ohms and 150
ohms, respectively). The EV logic (not shown) looks at the signal voltage on node "B" and the
EVSE looks at node "A" as received at the controller 1208 through the analog multiplexor 1212
and proximity monitor 1228. When the charge coupler 1214 is not inserted into the EV port, the
voltage on node "B" is [+4.46 VDC]. This indicates to the EV controls that the plug is not
inserted. When the charge coupler 1214 is inserted into the EV port, the added impedance
changes the Proximity voltage to one of two levels. If the interlock mechanism is engaged, S3 is
open and the node "A" and "B" voltage is [+2.76 VDC]. This indicates an insertion or removal
event is in process. If the interlock mechanism is not engaged, S3 is closed and the node "A" and
"B" voltage is [+1.51 VDC]. This indicates that the plug connection is stable. To sense the
Proximity circuit (S3, R.-R4) without frustrating its normal operation, a high impedance analog
to digital input is connected to node "A" (D1, D2, Cl, RX). When the charge coupler 1214 is
inserted into the EV port, the voltages are consistent with the previous values of;
                         Node "A"=     [+2.76 VDC] open               [+1.51 VDC] closed.
When the plug is not inserted into the EV port, the bias voltage from R4 is gone and the EVSE
controller 1208 then can read the voltage drop that the V2+RX supply provides at the proximity
monitor 1228. For this case, the S3 state conditions provide;
                                             20

                       Node "A"=      [+1.26 VDC} open               [+0.60 VDC] closed.
The node "A" voltage may then indicates to the EVSE controller one of four charge coupler
1214 states as provided in Table 2.
                       Node "A" Voltage        Plug State
                          +2.76 VDC            Plug inserted into EV port,
                                               engagement mechanism is pushed
                          +1.51 VDC            Plug inserted into EV port,
                                               engagement mechanism is not
                                               pushed
                          +1.26 VDC            Plug not inserted into EV port,
                                               engagement mechanism is pushed
                          +0.60 VDC            Plug not inserted into EV port,
                                               engagement mechanism is not
                                               pushed
                                             Table 2.
        From these voltage readings, the EVSE software may modify it's operation and provide
useful operational features using the inherent Proximity switch and therefore without the need
for additional control devices.
        FIG. 15 is a front perspective view of an EVSE power plug assembly 1500 that is
configurable to operate with NEMA 515, 520, 615 and 620 AC power receptacles based on the
position of the neutral plug blade and in response to a detected voltage at the power plug blade.
In FIG. 15, the power and neutral blades (1502, 1504) are rotatably coupled in the assembly
1500 to rotate between horizontal and vertical positions, such as the vertical positions illustrated
in FIG. 17. The ground prong 1506 may remain fixed and non-rotatable with respect to the
assembly 1500. A power cable 1508 and neutral cable 1510 are in electrical communication
with the power and neutral blades (1502, 1504), respectively, and extend out the back of an
assembly body 1512.
        In FIG. 16, the power and neutral cables (1508, 1510) are illustrated extending out from a
back face 1600 of the assembly body 1512 for communication with a remainder of the EVSE
system. A switch lever 1602 may be electrically coupled to the neutral blade 1504 and
configured, such as through an elbow bend, to press on a first switch contact 1602 when the
                                            21

neutral blade 1504 has been rotated to the vertical orientation. The first switch contact 1604 is
pushed by the switch lever 1602 to contact a second switch contact 1606, thereby completing a
circuit between the first and second switch contacts (1604, 1606) and the controller 1208 (see
FIG. 12) to enable the controller to detect the vertical orientation of the neutral blade, such as for
use with NEMA 5-15 and NEMA 6-20 AC power receptacles (see Table 3). In one embodiment,
the controller uses neutral blade orientation detection in combination with measurement of the
voltage at the power blade 1502 to determine which of NEMA 5-15 or NEMA 6-20 AC power
receptacles is being used by the EVSE power plug assembly 1500. For example, if the controller
detects a vertical neutral blade 1504 as indicated by first and second switch contacts (1604,
1606) completing the circuit with the controller, and detects 120 V at the power blade 1502, then
the controller may deduce that the power blade 1502 has been rotated to a vertical position and
that the EVSE power plug assembly 1500 is plugged into a AC power receptacle defined by
NEMA 5-15 (i.e., 120 V, 15 A) (see Table 3). This information may then be used by the
controller to define a maximum EV charge rate as driven by the pilot signal. If the controller
detects 240 V at the power blade 1502, the controller may deduce that the power blade had been
rotated to the horizontal position (not shown) and that the EVSE power plug assembly 1500 was
plugged into a NEMA 6-20 AC power receptacle (i.e., 240 V, 20 A) (see Table 3) for purposes
of driving an appropriate pilot signal to an EV.
                       Standard        Neutral        Power          Measured
                                         Blade        Blade          Voltage
                                       Position      Position
                                     (Detected)
                     NEMA 5-15         Vertical      Vertical         120 V
                     NEMA 5-20       Horizontal      Vertical         120 V
                     NEMA 6-15       Horizontal    Horizontal         240 V
                     NEMA 6-20         Vertical    Horizontal         240 V
                                                  Table 3.
        In FIG. 17, the neutral blade 1504 has been rotated by the user to a horizontal position
with respect to the vertical power blade 1502, and so the switch lever 1602 has rotated off of the
                                              22

first switch contact 1604 to allow the first switch contact 1604 to return to its natural position
parallel to and not in contact with the second switch contact 1606. The controller would thereby
detect the horizontal position of the neutral blade as the circuit with the controller and first and
second switch contacts (1604, 1606) is broken.       Although the controller may not detect the
position of the power blade 1502, if the controller detects 120 V at the power blade 1502, the
controller would deduce that the EVSE power plug assembly 1500 is plugged into a NEMA 5-20
AC power receptacle (i.e., 120 V, 20 A) (see Table 2) and drive the pilot signal accordingly.
Similarly, if the controller detects 240 V at the power blade 1502 and a horizontally-positioned
neutral blade 1504, the controller may know that the EVSE power plug assembly 1500 is
plugged into a NEMA 6-15 AC power receptacle (i.e., 240 V, 15 A) (see Table 2), although the
controller does not directly monitor such orientation. In an alternative embodiment, third and
fourth switch contacts may be provided to engage a switch arm coupled to the power blade to
enable the controller to detect the power blade position. In other embodiments, switch contacts
and a switch arm may be provided to detect only the power blade position.
          FIG. 18 illustrates one embodiment of a method to use DC biasing to determine the
  health and safety of the EVSE and EV for charging. Referring to FIGS. 12 and 18, the output
  voltage of the EVSE system 1200 results from closure of relays 1204. In rare occasions, the
  contact may become stuck or "welded" due to output impedances that are near zero ohms and
  which may create huge currents at relay 1204 closure. The normal load impedance of an EV
  charger is primarily capacitive when the charger is inactive, such as when power is first applied.
  If the EVSE were to close into an effectively DC "shorted" load, then a "weld" effect may be the
  result. For example, if a test shows that the impedance across the EV is significantly low, as
  would be the case for a near-shorted condition, then the controller 1208 may decide to not close
  into the suspicious load. With application of a DC bias through bias resisters R. 1230 and Ry
   1232, pre-closure readings of the resistive and capacitive load impedance may be made so that
  the decision to close relays 1204 may be stopped before a faulty load is applied. The presence of
  the DC bias also allows determination of a "welded" contact in order to signal to the user that the
  contact is closed and output power is present when not expected.
          More particularly, the charge coupler 1218 may be disconnected from an EV (block
  1800) and a differential DC bias, preferably +/- 15 V, applied through bias resisters Rx and Ry,
  respectively (block 1802). The voltage of Lines 1 and 2 may be measured (block 1804) to look
                                             23

Atty Docket No.: EES-V11216WO
for fault indications.    If the Line 1 and Line 2 voltages do not appear to reach the DC bias
voltage (test 1806), a welded relay or output line fault is indicated (block 1808) and the
controller 1208 may indicate a fault through the user interface 1224. If, however, Line 1 and
Line 2 voltages appear to attain DC bias voltages (test 1806), then the user may connect the
charger coupler to the EV charger and the controller 1208 while the switch the relays 1204
remain open (block 1810). Voltages on Lines 1 and 2 are again measured and, if the differential
voltage between Lines 1 and 2 is 0 V (test 1812), a low impedance condition fault condition is
registered, such as may be the case if the EV is shorted (block 1814), and the controller 1208
may indicate a fault through the user interface 1224 or by other means such as an audible
warning. If the differential voltage is not 0 V (test 1812), but either of the two lines (Line 1 and
Line 2) indicates 0 V (test 1816), then an output line is shorted to ground indicating a fault
(block 1818), and the controller 1208 may indicate a fault through the user interface 1224.
Otherwise, the controller 1208 may close the relays 1204 using the relay control driver 1206
(block 1820). If the output voltages equal the input voltages (test 1822), then a possible relay
open fault is indicated (block 1824) and the user may be notified through the user interface 1224.
         FIG. 19 is a system diagram illustrating one embodiment of an EVSE plugged into an AC
utility circuit to charge an EV. An EV 1900 is coupled to a SAE-J1772-compliant connector
1902 to receive current provided by an AC power outlet 1904 through an EVSE 1906.
         FIGS. 21A and 21B illustrate an EVSE plugged into a power outlet that has protective
enclosures for respective receptacles. The protective enclosures (2100, 2102) are each operable
to open to a maximum angle (Anglex) of less than or equal to approximately 72 degrees with a
front receptacle face 2104 to receive an EVSE 2106 may have a case that has left and right
gripping sides (2108, 2110) that also are at an angle (Anglex) of less than or equal to 72 degrees
with the front receptacle face 2104. The front receptacle face 2104 is disposed parallel to a front
plug face 2112 of the EVSE 2106 and so the front plug face 2112 may also be at an angle
(Anglex) of less than or equal to 72 degrees with the left and right gripping sides (2108, 2110). A
user interface in the form of an LED light 1214 may be presented to an exterior of the EVSE
case 100. The LED light may be provided at an angle from the front plug face 2112 so that I
user may see the LED light from either a top or front perspective position.
         The illustrations and examples provided herein are for explanatory purposes and are not
intended to limit the scope of the appended claims. This disclosure is to be considered an
exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the spirit and scope
                                                  24

of the invention and/or claims of the embodiment illustrated. It is contemplated that various
combinations and/or sub-combinations of the specific features, systems, methods, and aspects of
the above embodiments may be made and still fall within the scope of the invention.
Accordingly, it should be understood that various features and aspects of the disclosed
embodiments may be combined with or substituted for one another in order to form varying
modes of the disclosed invention. Further it is intended that the scope of the present invention
herein disclosed by way of examples should not be limited by the particular disclosed
embodiments described above.
                                               25

EXEMPLARY CLAIMS
We claim:
1.       An electric vehicle service equipment (EVSE) system, comprising:
         an EVSE case having a front plug face, a rear face, and left and right gripping sides that
collectively define a trapezoidal prism cross section, the left and right gripping sides further
having left and right convex gripping portions, respectively;
         a relay positioned within the EVSE case; and
         a controller positioned within the EVSE case and in communication with the relay, the
controller responsive to a pilot duty signal, when a pilot duty signal is present.
2.       The EVSE system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the rear face has a base cutout to form
a conning tower.
3.       The EVSE system of claim 2, further comprising a cable connected to the conning tower
at an orientation that is perpendicular to the front plug face so that the cable extends initially
parallel to the front plug face.
4.       The EVSE system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the distance from the
front plug face to the rear face is less than or equal to 3.1 inches.
5.       The EVSE system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
         power and neutral plug blades extending from the front plug face; and
         a thermistor in thermal communication with the power and neutral plug blades.
6.       The EVSE system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a transformer.
7.       The EVSE system of claim 6, wherein the transformer is a flyback-based transformer.
8.       The EVSE system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an outdoor
plug enclosure encompassing the EVSE case.
9.       The EVSE system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of the left and
right gripping sides are at an angle (Anglex) of less than or equal to 72 degrees with the front
plug face.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
