ABSTRACT
A passive safety needle device is disclosed having a housing, a needle hub, a needle cannula,
a retractable sheath, a spring to bias the retractable sheath in a distal direction to cover the
distal end of the needle cannula, a radial protrusion to cause the spring to move from the
proximal spring position to the distal spring position, and a catch to secure the distal end of
the spring to the distal end of the housing. The spring may bias the retractable sheath in a
distal direction to cover the distal end of the needle cannula. The radial protrusion causes the
spring to move from a proximal spring position to the distal spring position towards the catch
located at the distal end of the housing.

                                                     1
                "Retracting sheath detachable safety needle with moving spring"
RELATED APPLICATIONS
The present application is a divisional application of Australia Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> which in turn is a divisional application of Australia Patent Application No.
2013232054 which is the Australian national phase application of PCTUS2013/031154 filed 14
March 2013 and which claims priority to US61/610,623 and US13/793,655. The entire contents
of each of these referenced applications is herein incorporated by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The subject invention relates generally to a safety needle device, and more particularly to
a passive safety needle device having a housing, a needle hub, a needle cannula, a retractable
sheath, a spring to bias the retractable sheath in a distal direction to cover the distal end of the
needle cannula, a radial protrusion to cause the spring to move from the proximal spring position
to the distal spring position, and a catch to secure the distal end of the spring to the distal end of
the housing. The radial protrusion causes the spring to move from a proximal spring position and
a distal spring position separated by a ledge towards the catch located at the distal end of the
housing.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Needle devices are used throughout the medical industry for the injection and withdrawal
of a wide variety of fluids and solutions into and from the human body. Because of the numerous
potential hazards associated with the handling and manipulation of bodily fluids, and particularly
blood, there are a number of known safety features that are frequently incorporated into various
types of needle devices to protect the practitioner from accidental exposure to the needle.
[0003] Other prior safety needle devices having a retractable sheath require multi-component
retraction and locking elements. Conventional retraction syringe assemblies often do not
incorporate reuse prevention features, and thus, the retraction mechanism may be reset so the
syringe barrel may be reused. The reuse of syringe assemblies without sterilization or sufficient
sterilization is believed to facilitate the transfer of contagious diseases. Further, the retraction
features of conventional syringes also often require the user to actively activate the retraction

                                                     la
mechanism. Accordingly, the chance of human error in failure to activate or properly activate the
retraction mechanism can lead to continued exposure of needles.
[0004] Prior retracting sheath safety needle devices have been developed to include a single -use
cover assembly that obscures a substantial majority or an entirety of an injection needle from
view before, during, and after an injection procedure. However, many injection procedures
require that the practitioner know precisely the location and depth to which the needle is inserted
in the patient's tissue to be sure that medication is delivered to an appropriate location.
[0005] There is a need in the art to provide a safety needle device having a passive activation
mechanism that overcomes the deficiencies of the known retracting sheath safety needle devices
and

                                                          2
   which allows for low part count, low part complexity, clear and unobstructed view of needle through
   sheath, relatively compact design and no rotation of the sheath during use.
   SUMMARY
   [0006]       The present invention is directed to a safety needle device including a housing, a needle
 5 hub, a needle cannula, a retractable sheath, a spring to bias the retractable sheath in a distal direction to
   cover the distal end of the needle cannula, a radial protrusion to cause the spring to move from the
   proximal spring position to the distal spring position, and a catch to secure the distal end of the spring
   to the distal end of the housing. The housing includes a proximal end and a distal end having an
   opening. In one or more embodiments, the proximal end of the housing may be connectable to a luer
10 connection or other fluid connector.
   [0007]       The retractable sheath may be disposed and movable in the opening and surrounds a needle
   cannula having a distal end and a proximal end. The needle cannula is mounted to a needle hub at the
   proximal end of the housing. The retractable sheath includes a radially enlarged proximal end defining
   a proximal spring position and a distal spring position separated by a ledge.
15 [0008]       The spring may bias the retractable sheath in a distal direction to cover the distal end of the
   needle cannula.       The spring includes a proximal end, a main body, and a distal end.              In one
   embodiment, the radial protrusion may extend inwardly into housing to cause the spring to move from
   the proximal spring position to the distal spring position so that when the spring is extended, the distal
   end of the spring is secured to a catch at the distal end of the housing.
20 [0009]       In one or more embodiments, the spring comprises a compression or coil spring having an
   enlarged coil portion on the distal end that has a diameter larger than the proximal end and main body
   of the spring. In one or more embodiments, the enlarged coil portion rests on the ledge when the spring
   is in the proximal spring position. In one or more embodiments, the enlarged coil portion rests on the
   catch to lock the retractable sheath when the spring is in the distal spring position.
25 [0010]       In one or more embodiments, the catch is defined by inward ramps terminating in barbed
   ends.
   [0011]       In one or more embodiments, the retractable sheath fully covers the needle when the spring
   is in the distal spring position.
   [0012]       In one or more embodiments, the radial protrusion is configured to provide free movement
30 between the radial protrusion and the proximal end and main body of the spring. In one or more
   embodiments, the radial protrusion is configured to provide hindered movement between the radial
   protrusion and the enlarged coil portion. In one or more embodiments, the radial protrusion compresses

                                                         3
   the enlarged coil portion to cause the enlarged coil portion to slip from the ledge and move from the
   proximal spring position to the distal spring position. In some embodiments, the radial protrusion is
   located on the proximal end of the housing. In other embodiments, the radial protrusion is located on
   the distal end of the housing.
 5 [0013]       The present invention is also directed to a safety needle device including a housing having a
   proximal end and a distal end having an opening; a needle cannula having a distal end and a proximal
   end mounted to a needle hub at the proximal end of the housing; a retractable sheath disposed an outer
   surface on the distal end of the housing surrounding the needle cannula, the retractable sheath having a
   larger diameter than the housing and having a radially enlarged proximal end defining a proximal
10 spring position and a distal spring position separated by a ledge; a spring to bias the retractable sheath
   in a distal direction to cover the distal end of the needle cannula, the spring having a distal end; and a
   radially compressible member on the distal end of the spring having a larger diameter than the proximal
   end and main body of the spring; and a radially protrusion extending outwardly from housing to cause
   the radially compressible member to compress upon an application of force in the proximal direction to
15 allow the spring to move from the proximal spring position to the distal spring position so that when the
   spring is extended, the distal end of the spring is secured to a catch at the distal end of the housing. In
   one or more embodiments, the proximal end of the housing may be connectable to a luer connection or
   other fluid connector.
   [0014]       In one or more embodiments, the radially compressible member rests on the ledge when the
20 spring is in the proximal spring position. In one or more embodiments, the radially compressible
   member rests on the catch to lock the retractable sheath when the spring is in the distal spring position.
   [0015]       The present invention is also directed to a safety needle device including a housing having a
   proximal end and a distal end having an opening; a needle cannula having a distal end and a proximal
   end mounted to a needle hub at the proximal end of the housing; a needle hub having a radial protrusion
25 extending outward into housing and a distal end having a ramped surface; a retractable sheath having a
   proximal end and distal end, the proximal end having a first flange forming a ledge with the ramped
   surface of the needle hub and a second flange to hold the retractable sheath in the housing, the
   retractable sheath surrounding a needle cannula having a distal end and a proximal end mounted to the
   needle hub at the proximal end of the housing, the first and second flange defining a proximal spring
30 position and a distal spring position; a spring to bias the retractable sheath in a distal direction to cover
   the distal end of the needle cannula, the spring having a proximal end, a main body, and a distal end;
   the radially protrusion causing the spring to move from the proximal spring position to the distal spring
   position when the spring is extended; and a catch forming between the ramped surface and the second

                                                          4
   flange of the retractable sheath. In one or more embodiments, the proximal end of the housing may be
   connectable to a luer connection or other fluid connector.
   [0016]      In one or more embodiments, the spring comprises a reduced coil portion on the distal end
   having a smaller diameter than the proximal end and main body of the spring.                In one or more
 5 embodiments, the reduced coil portion rests on the ledge when the spring is in the proximal spring
   position. In one or more embodiments, the reduced coil portion rests on the catch to lock the retractable
   sheath when the spring is in the distal spring position.
   [0017]      In one or more embodiments, the catch is defined by a recess formed between the outward
   ramped surface of the needle hub and the second flange of the retractable sheath.
10 [0018]      In one or more embodiments, the radial protrusion is configured to provide free movement
   between the radial protrusion and the proximal end and main body of the spring. In one or more
   embodiments, the radial protrusion is configured to provide hindered movement between the radial
   protrusion and the reduced coil portion. In one or more embodiments, the radial protrusion enlarges the
   reduced coil portion to cause the reduced coil portion to slip from the ledge and move from the
15 proximal spring position to the distal spring position.          In one or more embodiments, the radial
   protrusion is located proximally to the ledge.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0019]      Fig. 1 is a perspective view of the safety needle device.
   [0020]      Fig. 2 is a plan view of the safety needle device.
20 [0021]      Fig. 3 is a plan view of the slots and rails of the safety needle device.
   [0022]      Fig. 4 is a perspective view of the spring of the safety needle device having an enlarged end
   coil.
   [0023]      Fig. 5 is a plan view of the safety needle device prior to activation.
   [0024]      Fig. 6 is another plan view of the safety needle device prior to activation.
25 [0025]      Fig. 7 is another plan view of the safety needle device prior to activation.
   [0026]      Fig. 8 is a plan view of the safety needle device after activation.
   [0027]      Fig. 9 is a plan view of the safety needle device after activation at the bottom of travel.
   [0028]      Fig. 10 is a plan view of the safety needle device after activation showing enlarged end coil
   section locked in catch.

                                                         5
   [0029]       Fig. 11 is a plan view of the safety needle device in accordance with an alternative
   embodiment of the present invention.
   [0030]       Fig. 12 is a plan view of the safety needle device in accordance with yet another alternative
   embodiment of the present invention.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0031]       Before describing several exemplary embodiments of the invention, it is to be understood
   that the invention is not limited to the details of construction or process steps set forth in the following
   description. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or being carried out
   in various ways.
10 [0032]       In this disclosure, a convention is followed wherein the distal end of the device is the end
   closest to a patient and the proximal end of the device is the end away from the patient and closest to a
   practitioner.
   [0033]       Figs. 1 -10 illustrate an exemplary safety needle device 10 according to the present
   invention. Safety needle device 10 including a housing 20, a needle hub 30, a needle 40, a retractable
15 sheath 50, a spring 60 to bias the retractable sheath 50 in a distal direction to cover the distal end of the
   needle 40, a radial protrusion 70 to cause the spring 60 to move from the proximal spring position 80 to
   the distal spring position 90, and a catch 100 to secure the distal end of the spring 60 to the distal end of
   the housing 20. In one or more embodiments, the housing 20 includes a proximal end 22 and a distal
   end 24 having an opening.
20 [0034]       Generally speaking, safety needle device 10 is comprised of a needle 40, a housing 20, and a
   retractable sheath 50.     Housing 20 includes a proximal end 22 and a distal end 24 having an opening.
   In one or more embodiments, the proximal end of the housing may be connectable to a luer connection
   or other fluid connector.     Retractable sheath 50 is slidably mounted and movable in the opening to
   slidably accommodate and encase needle 40 projecting axially from housing 20.         The term "retractable
25 sheath" is intended to include any sort of tubular member and U-shaped member.               The retractable
   sheath 50 is dimensioned to be compatible with the size and type of needle 40 as will be appreciated by
   those skilled in the art. The housing 20 may include a housing body portion with an internal hollow
   region (not shown) in which the retractable sheath 50 may move in the proximal direction. As shown in
   Fig. 2, needle 40 may be connected to a needle hub 30 disposed at the proximal end 22 of the housing
30 20 and having a blunted tip or beveled tip at the distal end. The needle 40 is disposed in the needle hub
   30 in a manner as would be well understood in the art and which forms no part of the invention. The
   needle hub 30 may be integrally formed with the housing 20. The needle 40 extends from the needle
   hub 30 disposed in the housing 20 to a needle tip and is completely received within the retractable

                                                         6
   sheath 50 when the retractable sheath 50 is in a distal position.     The needle tip is exposed from the
   retractable sheath 50 when the retractable sheath 50 is in a proximal position. Fig. 3 shows the internal
   slots and rails of the safety device.
   [0035]       As illustrated in several of the drawings, most notably Figs. 1 and 2, retractable sheath 50 is
 5 generally comprised of a tubular portion and is retractably slidable along the length of the needle 40
   such that at least a substantial portion of needle 40 is exposed when the sheath 50 is in its retracted
   position (as illustrated in Fig. 2). The length of needle 40 extending outwardly from the needle hub 30
   in a distal direction is partially or completely encased when retractable sheath 50 is in its non-retracted
   position (as illustrated in Figs. 1 and 2).
10 [0036]       The needle 40 in accordance with the present invention can be formed from conventional
   materials such as steel or more preferably stainless steel. It will be realized by the skilled artisan that
   medical grade plastics, composites, ceramics, or like materials can be substituted.
   [0037]       The inside diameter of the open-ended retracting sheath 50 is selected so that it will fit
   closely over needle 40. The retracting sheath 50 may be made of any suitable material, but preferably of
15 a polymer which is tough enough to protect needle 40 and may be easily sterilized. The material is
   preferably transparent or translucent so that the position of needle 40 within retracting sheath 50 can be
   visually verified. Sheath 50 is preferably made of a transparent material, so that a health care worker
   can see the progress of needle 40 as it is emerging from sheath 50 to make sure that it is positioned
   where desired for an injection.
20 [0038]       The retractable sheath 50 may be disposed and movable in the opening and surrounds a
   needle 40 having a distal end and a proximal end. The needle 40 is mounted to a needle hub 30 at the
   proximal end of the housing. The retractable sheath 50 includes a radially enlarged proximal end
   defining a proximal spring position 80 and a distal spring position 90 separated by a ledge 150. The
   retractable sheath 50 is spring loaded, and is supplied with the sheath completely or partially covering
25 the needle 40.
   [0039]       The spring 60 may bias the retractable sheath 50 in a distal direction to cover the distal end
   of the needle 40. The spring 60 includes a proximal end, a main body, and a distal end. In one
   embodiment, the radial protrusion 70 may extend inwardly into housing 20 to cause the spring 60 to
   move from the proximal spring position 80 to the distal spring position 90 so that when the spring 60 is
30 extended, the distal end of the spring 60 is secured to a catch 100 at the distal end of the housing. In
   this position, the spring impedes proximal movement of the retracting sheath, thereby protecting the
   needle tip.

                                                        7
   [0040]       In one or more embodiments, as shown in Fig. 4, the spring 60 comprises a compression or
   coil spring having an enlarged end coil 130 on the distal end that has a diameter larger than the
   proximal end and main body of the spring 60 which is of a constant or smaller diameter, as shown in
   Figs. 4 and 5. In one or more embodiments, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6, the enlarged coil portion rests
 5 on the ledge 150 when the spring 60 is in the proximal spring position 80.                In one or more
   embodiments, the enlarged coil portion rests on the catch 100 to lock the retractable sheath 50 when the
   spring is in the distal spring position 90, and the retractable sheath is in the distal position of the
   housing..
   [0041]       In one or more embodiments, the catch 100 is defined by inward ramps terminating in
10 barbed ends.
   [0042]       In one or more embodiments, the retractable sheath 50 fully covers the needle 40 when the
   spring is in the distal position of the housing.
   [0043]       In one or more embodiments, the radial protrusion 70 is configured to provide free
   movement between the radial protrusion 70 and the proximal end and main body of the spring 60. In
15 one or more embodiments, the radial protrusion 70 is configured to provide hindered movement
   between the radial protrusion 70 and the enlarged end coil 130. In one or more embodiments, as shown
   in Figs. 7 and 8, the radial protrusion 70 compresses the enlarged end coil 130 to cause the enlarged end
   coil 130 to slip from the ledge 150 and move from the proximal spring position 80 to the distal spring
   position 90. In some embodiments, the radial protrusion 70 is located on the proximal end of the
20 housing. In other embodiments, the radial protrusion 70 is located on the distal end of the housing.
   [0044]       Upon administration of the injection, the retractable sheath 50 moves from a distal to
   proximal position and the needle tip is exposed so that the needle tip may penetrate the injection site.
   Upon continued application of force by pressing sheath 50 against the skin at the location where it is
   desired to insert needle 40, sheath 50 retracts into housing 20 allowing the injection site to be
25 penetrated by the needle tip. As shown in Fig. 3, the enlarged end coil 130 is retained on the ledge 150
   and cannot lock on the catch, and therefore the retractable sheath 50 is not locked into place.
   [0045]       As shown in Fig. 5, there is a clearance between the radial protrusion 70 and the main body
   of the spring 60. As shown in Fig. 7, the radial protrusion 70 is sized such that it will interfere with the
   enlarged end coil 130 as it passes over causing the enlarged end coil 130 to be compressed by the radial
30 protrusion 70. As shown in Fig. 8, upon continued application of proximal force, the enlarged end coil
   130 is compressed and becomes too small to be retained on the ledge 150, thereby slipping off the ledge
   150.    The radial protrusion 70 can be placed at any point in the housing 20 such that activation,
   whereby the retractable sheath 50 will lock if the safety needle device 10 is pulled out, can occur either

                                                         8
   at a very distal point in the housing, near the beginning of the stroke as soon as the coil clears the barbs
   in the housing, or at a proximal point in the housing, for example, the bottom of the stroke, as shown in
   Fig. 9, when the needle 40 is fully inserted into the injection site, or at any position along the length of
   the housing. As shown in Fig. 10, as the injection is completed and the needle 40 is pulled from
 5 injection site, the spring force causes the sheath 50 to extend, and at the end of the stroke, the enlarged
   end coil 130 advances past the catch 100 at the end of the stroke to lock the retractable sheath 50
   thereby completing a passive safety lock-out.
   Constant Diameter Spring with radially compressible member
   [0046]       In another embodiment of the present invention, it is envisioned that the spring 60 has a
10 constant diameter having a radially compressible member 160, for example C-clip, attached to or biased
   against its distal end wherein the radially compressible member160 rests on a ledge 150.
   [0047]       As shown in Fig. 11, the present invention is also directed to a safety needle device
   including a housing 20 having a proximal end and a distal end having an opening; a needle 40 having a
   distal end and a proximal end mounted to a needle hub 30 at the proximal end of the housing; a
15 retractable sheath 50 disposed an outer surface on the distal end of the housing 20 surrounding the
   needle 40, the retractable sheath 50 having a radially enlarged proximal end defining a proximal spring
   position 80 and a distal spring position 90 separated by a ledge 150; a spring 60 to bias the retractable
   sheath 50 in a distal direction to cover the distal end of the needle 40, the spring 60 having a distal end;
   and a radially compressible member on the distal end of the spring 60 having a larger diameter than the
20 proximal end and main body of the spring 60; and a radial protrusion 70 extending inwardly from the
   housing 20 to cause the radially compressible member to compress upon an application of force or
   motion in the proximal direction to allow the radially compressible member to move from a proximal
   position to the distal position so that when the spring is extended, the radially compressible member is
   secured to a catch 100 at the distal end of the housing. In one or more embodiments, the proximal end
25 of the housing may be connectable to a luer connection or other fluid connector, or integrated into a
   device, such as a syringe.
   [0048]       Upon administration of an injection, proximally directed force results in the radially
   compressible member progressing to the radial protrusion 70 extending outwardly from housing. After
   reaching the radial protrusion 70, continued proximally directed force results in the compression of the
30 radially compressible member allowing the compressed radially compressible member to slips off the
   ledge 150 causing the compressible member to advance from a proximal to distal position in the
   housing. As the compressible member advances from a proximal to distal position in the housing, the

                                                          9
   radially compressible member advances past the catch 100 to lock the retractable sheath 50 completing
   a passive safety lock-out.
   [0049]      In one or more embodiments, the radially compressible member rests on the ledge 150 when
   the member is in the proximal position. In one or more embodiments, the radially compressible member
 5 rests on the catch 100 to lock the retractable sheath 50 when the member is in a distal position, and the
   retractable sheath is in the distal position of the housing.
   Internal configuration with reduced end coil spring
   [0050]      In another embodiment of the present invention, it is envisioned that the internal locking
   components may be inverted so that the spring activates and locks on component features on the inside
10 of the spring, rather than outside of its coils. In such an embodiment, a needle hub 30 extending to the
   tip of the housing 20 includes radial outward protrusion, locking barb, and ledge 150 that interact with a
   shrunken end coil on the inside of the spring.
   [0051]      As shown in Fig. 12, the present invention is also directed to a safety needle device 10
   including a housing 20 having a proximal end and a distal end having an opening; a needle 40 having a
15 distal end and a proximal end mounted to a needle hub 30 at the proximal end of the housing; a needle
   hub 30 having a radial protrusion 70 extending outward into housing 20 and a distal end having a
   ramped surface; a retractable sheath 50 having a proximal end and distal end, the proximal end having a
   first flange 110 forming a ledge 150 with the ramped surface of the needle hub 30 and a second
   flange120 to hold the retractable sheath 50 in the housing, the retractable sheath 50 surrounding a
20 needle 40 having a distal end and a proximal end mounted to the needle hub 30 at the proximal end of
   the housing, the first and second flange 120 defining a proximal spring position 80 and a distal spring
   position 90; a spring to bias the retractable sheath 50 in a distal direction to cover the distal end of the
   needle 40, the spring having a proximal end, a main body, and a distal end; the radial protrusion causing
   the spring to move from the proximal spring position 80 to the distal spring position 90 when the spring
25 is extended; and a catch 100 forming at the distal end of the ramped surface between the ramped
   surface and the second flange 120 of the retractable sheath 50.
   [0052]      In one or more embodiments, the spring comprises a reduced end coil 140 on the distal end
   having a smaller diameter than the proximal end and main body of the spring.               In one or more
   embodiments, the reduced end coil 140 rests on the ledge 150 when the spring is in the proximal spring
30 position 80. In one or more embodiments, the reduced end coil 140 rests on the catch 100 to lock the
   retractable sheath 50 when the spring is in the distal spring position 90.
   [0053]      In one or more embodiments, the catch 100 is defined by a recess formed between the
   outward ramped surface of the needle hub 30 and the second flange 120 of the retractable sheath 50.

                                                        10
   [0054]       In one or more embodiments, the radial protrusion 70 is configured to provide free
   movement between the radial protrusion 70 and the proximal end and main body of the spring. In one
   or more embodiments, the radial protrusion 70 is configured to provide hindered movement between
   the radial protrusion 70 and the reduced end coil 140. In one or more embodiments, the radial
 5 protrusion 70 enlarges the reduced end coil 140 to cause the reduced end coil 140 to slip from the ledge
   150 and move from the proximal spring position 80 to the distal spring position 90. In one or more
   embodiments, the radial protrusion 70 is located proximally to the ledge 150.
   [0055]       In one or more embodiments, the proximal end of the housing may be connectable to a luer
   connection or other fluid connector, or integrated into a device, such as a syringe.
10 [0056]       Upon administration of the injection, the retractable sheath 50 moves from a distal to
   proximal position and the needle tip is exposed so that the needle tip may penetrate the injection site.
   Upon continued application of force by pressing sheath 50 against the skin of a patient at the location
   where it is desired to insert needle 40, sheath 50 retracts into housing 20 allowing the injection site to
   be penetrated by the needle. As shown in Fig. 12, the reduced end coil 140 is retained on the ledge 150
15 and cannot lock on the catch, and therefore the retractable sheath 50 is not locked into place.
   [0057]       As shown in Fig. 12, there is a clearance between the radial protrusion 70 and the main body
   of the spring. As shown in Fig. 12, the radial protrusion 70 is sized such that it will interfere with the
   reduced end coil 140 as it passes over causing the reduced end coil 140 to be expand. As shown in Fig.
   12, upon continued application of proximal force, the reduce end coil is expanded and becomes too
20 large to be retained on the ledge 150, thereby slipping off the ledge 150. The radial protrusion 70 can
   be placed at any point in the housing 20 such that activation, whereby the retractable sheath 50 will lock
   if the safety needle device 10 is pulled out, can occur either at a very distal point in the housing, near
   the beginning of the stroke as soon as the coil clears the barbs in the housing, or at a proximal point in
   the housing, for example, the bottom of the stroke when the needle 40 is fully inserted into the injection
25 site, or at any position along the length of the housing. Upon continued application of proximal force
   as the injection is completed, reduced end coil 140 extends past the ramped surface and advances into
   the catch 100 at the end of the stroke to lock the retractable sheath 50 thereby completing a passive
   safety lock-out.
   [0058]       In yet another embodiment, an orientation similar to the one described herein for internal
30 configuration with reduced end coil spring is also envisioned using the constant diameter spring with
   radially compressible member.
   [0059]       Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment," "certain embodiments," "one
   or more embodiments" or "an embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure, material, or

                                                         11
   characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of
   the invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrases such as "in one or more embodiments," "in certain
   embodiments," "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this
   specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment of the invention. Furthermore, the
 5 particular features, structures, materials, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in
   one or more embodiments.
   [0060]       Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments,
   it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications
   of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and
10 variations can be made to the method and apparatus of the present invention without departing from the
   spirit and scope of the invention. Thus, it is intended that the present invention include modifications
   and variations that are within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

                                                    12
 CLAIMS:
1. A safety needle device comprising:
        a housing having a proximal end and a distal end having an opening;
        a retractable sheath disposed and movable in the opening and surrounding a needle
cannula having a distal end and a proximal end mounted to a needle hub at the proximal end of
the housing, the retractable sheath having a radially enlarged proximal end and a ledge;
        a spring to bias the retractable sheath in a distal direction to cover the distal end of the
needle cannula, the spring having a proximal end, a main body, and a distal end; and
        a radial protrusion extending inwardly from the housing to cause the spring to compress
upon an application of force in the proximal direction to allow the spring to move from a
proximal spring position when the spring is blocked under the ledge to a distal position when the
spring has moved from past the ledge so that when the spring is extended, the distal end of the
spring is secured to a catch at the distal end of the housing.
2. The safety needle device of claim 1, wherein the spring comprises an enlarged coil portion on
the distal end having a larger diameter than the proximal end and main body of the spring.
3. The safety needle device of claim 2, wherein the enlarged coil portion rests on the ledge when
the spring is in the proximal spring position.
4. The safety needle device of claim 2, wherein the enlarged coil portion rests on the catch to
lock the retractable sheath when the spring is in the distal spring position.
5. The safety needle device of claim 1, wherein the catch is defined by inward ramps terminating
in barbed ends.
6. The safety needle device of claim 1, wherein the radial protrusion is configured to provide free
movement between the radial protrusion and the proximal end and main body of the spring.
7. The safety needle device of claim 1, wherein the radial protrusion compresses the enlarged
coil portion to cause the enlarged coil portion to slip from the ledge and move from the proximal
spring position to the distal spring position.

                                              13
8. A safety needle device of claim 1 further comprising:
        a needle cannula having a distal end and a proximal end mounted to a needle hub at the
proximal end of the housing;
        the spring having a radially compressible member at the distal end of the spring having a
larger diameter than the proximal end and main body of the spring; and
9. The safety needle device of claim 8, wherein the radially compressible member rests on the
ledge when the member is in the proximal position.
10. The safety needle device of claim 8, wherein the radially compressible member rests on the
catch to lock the retractable sheath when the member is in the distal position and the sheath is in
the distal position.
11. The safety needle device of claim 8, wherein the catch is defined by inward ramps optionally
terminating in barbed ends.
12. The safety needle device of claim 8, wherein the radial protrusion is configured to provide
free movement between the radial protrusion and the proximal end and main body of the spring.
13. The safety needle device of claim 8, wherein the radial protrusion compresses the radially
compressible member to cause the radially compressible member to slip from the ledge and
move from the proximal spring position to the distal spring position.
14. A safety needle device of claim 1 further comprising:
        a needle cannula having a distal end and a proximal end mounted to a needle hub at the
proximal end of the housing;
        a needle hub having a radial protrusion extending outward into housing and a distal end
having a ramped surface;
        a retractable sheath having a proximal end and distal end, the proximal end having a first
flange forming a ledge with the ramped surface of the needle hub and a second flange to hold the

                                                 14
retractable sheath in the housing, the retractable sheath surrounding a needle cannula having a
distal end and a proximal end mounted to the needle hub at the proximal end of the housing, the
first and second flange defining a proximal spring position and a distal spring position; and
        a catch forming at the distal end of the ramped surface and the second flange of the
retractable sheath.
15. The safety needle device of claim 14, wherein the spring comprises a reduced coil portion on
the distal end having a smaller diameter than the proximal end and main body of the spring.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
