                                               Abstract
An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes: a transceiver configured to
communicate with at least one wearable device and receive, from the at least one wearable device, status
information indicating whether the at least one wearable device is currently being worn; and a processor
configured to determine whether to send a notification request to the at least one wearable device based
on the status information received by the transceiver.

                                             1
                                      Description
       Title of Invention: METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR
                       PROVIDING NOTIFICATION
     Technical Field
[1]      The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
     No. 2014394452, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
[la]     Methods and apparatuses consistent with exemplary embodiments relate to providing a
     notification from an electronic device.
     Background Art
[2]      Various types of electronic devices, such as smartphones, smart watches, smart glasses,
     and tablet personal computers (PCs), have been developed. Situations or environments in
     which various types of electronic devices are used may vary according to the features
     thereof. Also, different types of electronic devices are often used together such that
     communication can be established therebetween. For example, a smartphone and a smart
     watch may be used together such that communication can be established therebetween.
[3]      A user may receive various types of notifications while using an electronic device. For
     example, the user may receive various types of notifications, such as a text message, an
     email, a message of a messenger application, etc. Accordingly, there is a need to develop a
     method of appropriately providing a notification to a user when the user uses various types
     of electronic devices together.
     Disclosure of Invention
     Solution to Problem
[3a]     According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided an electronic
     device comprising: a transceiver; and a processor configured to: control to receive, through
     the transceiver from an external device, status information indicating that the external
     device is being in use in response to an event being occurred at the electronic device,
     control to determine whether to send a notification request corresponding to the event to the
     external device based on the status information received by the transceiver indicating that
     the external device is being in use; and in response to determining to send the notification
     to the external device based on the status information indicating that the external device is
     being in use, control to send, through the transceiver, the notification request to the external
     device, wherein the notification from the electronic device is not provided at the external
     device based on a setting at the external device.
[3b]     According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
     program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having

                                            la
    instructions which control an electronic device to: control to receive from an external
    device status information indicating that the external device is being in use in response to
    an event being occurred at the electronic device, control to determine whether to send a
    notification request corresponding to the event to the external device based on the status
    information received from the external device indicating that the external device is being in
    use; and in response to determining to send the notification to the external device based on
    the status information indicating that the external device is being in use, control to send the
    notification request to the external device, wherein the notification from the electronic
    device is not provided at the external device based on a setting at the external device.
[4]     One or more exemplary embodiments relate to preventing a notification that a user is
    not likely to check from being provided.
[5]     One or more exemplary embodiments relate to increasing a probability that a user will
    immediately check a notification.
[6]     One or more exemplary embodiments relate to providing a notification such that a user
    is not interrupted by the notification.
[7]     One or more exemplary embodiments relate to providing a wearable device with a
    notification in an appropriate form when an electronic device and the wearable device
    operate while communicating with each other.
[8]     Additional aspects will be set forth in part in the description which follows and, in part,
    will be apparent from the description, or may be learned by practice of the presented
    exemplary embodiments.
    Brief Description of Drawings
[9]     These and/or other aspects will become apparent and more readily appreciated from the
    following description of the exemplary embodiments, taken in conjunction with the

     accompanying drawings in which:
[10]   FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrating an electronic device and a wearable device according
     to an exemplary embodiment;
[11]   FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a structure of an electronic device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[12]   FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrating criteria for determining whether a wearable device is
     worn according to an exemplary embodiment;
[13]   FIG. 4 is a block diagram of a structure of a notification providing unit according to
     an exemplary embodiment;
[14]   FIG. 5 is a block diagram of a structure of a communication unit according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[15]   FIG. 6 is a block diagram of a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[16]   FIG. 7 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[17]   FIG. 8 is a flowchart of a method of detennining a device that will provide a noti
     fication when there are a plurality of wearable devices that are in a wearing state,
     according to an exemplary embodiment;
[18]   FIG. 9 is a table illustrating preset priorities according to an exemplary embodiment;
[19]   FIG. 10 is a diagram illustrating a method of providing a notification when there are
     a plurality of wearable devices in a wearing state according to an exemplary em
     bodiment;
[20]   FIG. 11 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[21]   FIG. 12 is a table illustrating cases in which it is determined that a device is in use
     according to an exemplary embodiment;
[22]   FIG. 13 is a diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment in which whether an
     electronic device and at least one wearable device are in use is considered;
[23]   FIG. 14 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[24]   FIG. 15 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
     fication when a plurality of devices are in use according to an exemplary embodiment;
[25]   FIG. 16 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
     fication according to an exemplary embodiment;
[26]   FIG. 17 is a diagram illustrating a case in which a notification is provided according
     to an exemplary embodiment;
[27]   FIG. 18 is a diagram illustrating that a notification is provided according to an
     exemplary embodiment;

[28]   FIG. 19 is a table illustrating a list of functions that do not pennit a notification to be
     provided while the functions are performed according to an exemplary embodiment;
[29]   FIG. 20 is a block diagram of a structure of an electronic device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[30]   FIG. 21 is a block diagram of a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[31]   FIG. 22 is a block diagram of a structure of sensor unit included in an electronic
     device or a wearable device according to an exemplary embodiment;
[32]   FIG. 23 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[33]   FIG. 24 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[34]   FIG. 25 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[35]   FIG. 26 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[36]   FIG. 27 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[37]   FIG. 28 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[38]   FIG. 29 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device to which a notification is
     to be provided according to an exemplary embodiment;
[39]   FIG. 30 is a table illustrating criteria for determining whether a device is a rec
     ognizable device and a non-recognizable device according to an exemplary em
     bodiment;
[40]   FIG. 31 is a diagram illustrating a method of detecting a line of sight according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[41]   FIG. 32 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[42]   FIG. 33 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[431   FIG. 34 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[44]   FIG. 35 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[45]   FIG. 36 is a diagram illustrating a structure for explaining a process of considering a
     communication state between devices according to an exemplary embodiment;
[461   FIG. 37 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an

     exemplary embodiment;
[47]   FIG. 38 is a table illustrating a device that is predetermined to provide a notification
     according to the form of a notification event according to an exemplary embodiment;
[48]   FIG. 39 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[49]   FIG. 40 is a flowchart of a method of determining a form of a notification according
     to an exemplary embodiment;
[50]   FIG. 41 is a flowchart of a method of setting a form of a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[51]   FIG. 42 is a flowchart of a method of setting a forn of a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[52]   FIG. 43 is a flowchart of a method of determining a form of a notification according
     to an exemplary embodiment;
[53]   FIG. 44 is a table illustrating a list of cases in which a sound notification is not ap
     propriate according to an exemplary embodiment;
[54]   FIG. 45 is a table illustrating examples of a predetermined device that will provide a
     notification and a predetermined form of the notification according to an exemplary
     embodiment;
[55]   FIG. 46 is a table illustrating examples of predetermined criteria for a device that will
     provide a notification of a notification event that communication between a smart
     watch and an electronic device is disconnected and a form of the notification when the
     smart watch and the electronic device are used together, according to an exemplary
     embodiment;
[56]   FIG. 47 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[57]   FIG. 48 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[58]   FIG. 49 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[59]   FIG. 50 is a diagram illustrating a method of determining a device that provides a no
     tification according to an exemplary embodiment;
[60]   FIG. 51 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
     fication according to an exemplary embodiment;
[61]   FIG. 52 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
     fication according to an exemplary embodiment;
[62]   FIG. 53 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[63]   FIG. 54 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an

     exemplary embodiment;
[64]   FIG. 55 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[65]   FIG. 56 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[66]   FIG. 57 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[67]   FIG. 58 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[68]   FIG. 59 is a flowchart of a method of setting a form of a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[69]   FIG. 60 is a flowchart of a method of setting a form of a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[70]   FIG. 61 is a block diagram of a server, an electronic device, and at least one wearable
     device according to an exemplary embodiment;
[71]   FIG. 62 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[72]   FIG. 63 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
     exemplary embodiment;
[73]   FIG. 64 is a diagram illustrating a communication manner according to an exemplary
     embodiment;
[74]   FIG. 65 is a diagram illustrating a communication manner according to an exemplary
     embodiment;
[75]   FIG. 66 is a diagram illustrating a communication manner according to an exemplary
     embodiment;
[76]   FIG. 67 is a flowchart of a method of transmitting a signal according to an exemplary
     embodiment;
[77]   FIG. 68 is a block diagram of structures of an electronic device and a wearable
     device according to an exemplary embodiment; and
[78]   FIG. 69 is a block diagram of a structure of an electronic device or a wearable device
     according to an exemplary embodiment.
     Best Mode for Carrying out the Invention
[79]   According to an aspect of an exemplary embodiment, there is provided an electronic
     device including a communication unit for communicating with at least one wearable
     device; a processor for obtaining information indicating whether the at least one
     wearable device is worn by a user, and requesting a wearable device that is being worn
     to provide a notification; and a notification providing unit for providing the noti-

     fication.
[80]   When any one of the at least one wearable device is not worn, the notification
     providing unit may provide the notification.
[81]   The processor may control the notification to be provided to a device that is being
     used by the user from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device
[82]    WNhen any one of the at least one wearable device is not worn, the processor may
     stand by until wearing of any one of the at least one wearable device is detected, and
     request a wearable device that is detected as being worn to provide the notification
[83]   When a device that is in use is present among the electronic device and the at least
     one wearable device, the processor may determine whether the notification is permitted
     to be provided to the device in use while a function is performed by the device in use,
     and control the notification to be provided to the device in use when the notification is
     permitted to be provided.
[84]   The processor may obtain information regarding a remaining charge capacity of a
     battery of the wearable device that is being worn, and request the wearable device that
     is being worn to provide the notification when the remaining charge capacity of the
     battery of the wearable device that is being worn is equal to or greater than a reference
     level.
[85]   The electronic device may further include a sensor unit for sensing a state of the
     electronic device. The processor may obtain information regarding a state of the at
     least one wearable device, and determine a form of the notification based on at least
     one selected from the state of the electronic device and the state of the at least one
     wearable device.
[86]   The processor may transform a notification request protocol, which is to be
     transmitted to the wearable device that is being worn to provide the notification, based
     on at least one selected from an operating system and a protocol of the wearable device
     that is being worn.
[87]   The notification providing unit may provide the notification. The processor may
     provide the notification to a plurality of devices among the electronic device and the at
     least one wearable device, and cancel the notification provided to remaining devices
     when a device among the plurality of devices checks the notification
[88]   According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a
     method of providing a notification from an electronic device to at least one wearable
     device capable of communicating with the electronic device, the method obtaining in
     formation indicating whether the at least one wearable device is worn by a user; and
     requesting a wearable device that is being worn to provide the notification.
[89]   The method may further include providing the notification by the electronic device
     when any one of the at least one wearable device is not worn

[90]   The method may further include controlling a device that is being used by the user to
     provide the notification from among the electronic device and the at least one wearable
     device.
[91]   The method may further include standing by until wearing of any one of the at least
     one wearable device is detected and requesting a wearable device that is detected as
     being worn to provide the notification, when any one of the at least one wearable
     device is not worn.
[92]   When a device that is in use is present among the electronic device and the at least
     one wearable device, the method may further include determining whether the noti
     fication is permitted to be provided to the device in use while a function is performed
     by the device in use; and controlling the notification to be provided to the device in use
     when the notification is permitted to be provided.
[93]   The method may further include obtaining information regarding a remaining charge
     capacity of a battery of the wearable device that is being worn. The requesting to
     provide the notification may include requesting the wearable device that is being worn
     to provide the notification when the remaining charge capacity of the battery of the
     wearable device, that is being worn, is equal to or greater than a reference level.
[94]   The method may further include sensing a state of the electronic device; obtaining in
     formation regarding a state of the at least one wearable device; and determining a form
     of the notification, based on at least one selected from the state of the electronic device
     and the state of the at least one wearable device
[95]   The method may further include transforming a notification request protocol, which
     is to be transmitted to the wearable device that is being worn to provide the noti
     fication, based on at least one selected from an operating system and a protocol of the
     wearable device that is being worn.
[96]   The method may further include providing a notification regarding a notification
     event to the electronic device; and providing the notification to a plurality of devices
     among the electronic device and the at least one wearable device, and canceling the no
     tification provided to remaining devices when a device among the plurality of devices
     checks the notification.
[97]   According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a
     wearable device including a communication unit for communicating with at least one
     electronic device; a processor for obtaining information indicating whether the
     wearable device is worn by a user; and a notification providing unit for providing a no
     tification when the wearable device is worn.
[98]   When the wearable device is not worn, the processor may request the electronic
     device to provide a notification.
[99]   According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment, there is provided an

      electronic device including: a transceiver configured to communicate with at least one
      wearable device and receive, from the at least one wearable device, status information
      indicating whether the at least one wearable device is currently being worn; and a
      processor configured to determine whether to send a notification request to the at least
      one wearable device based on the status information received by the transceiver.
[100]   The processor may be further configured to, in response to the status information in
      dicating that the at least one wearable device is currently being worn, control the
      transceiver to send the notification request to the at least one wearable device.
[101]   The processor may be further configured to determine whether to send the noti
      fication request to the at least one wearable device based on the status information, in
      response to an occurrence of an event at the electronic device.
[102]   The event may be at least one of a text message event, an appointment reminder
      event, a system event, a social network event, a phone call event, an e-mail event, a
      low battery event, and a change of setting event.
[103]   The at least one wearable device may include a plurality of wearable devices. The
      processor may be further configured to set an order of notification to the plurality of
      wearable devices based on the status information.
[104]   The processor may be further configured to determine whether to send the noti
      fication request to a wearable device from among the plurality of wearable devices
      based on the status information and the order of notification.
[105]   The processor may be further configured to control the transceiver to send a plurality
      of notification requests to the plurality of wearable devices according to the order of
      notification.
[106]   The processor may be further configured to, in response to the status information in
      dicating that the at least one wearable device is currently in use, control the transceiver
      to send the notification to the at least one wearable device.
[107]   The processor may be further configured to determine whether the electronic device
      is currently in use, and in response to determining that the electronic device is
      cuiTently in use, the processor may control to provide the notification on the electronic
      device and determine not to send the notification request to the at least one wearable
      device.
[108]   The processor may be further configured to determine whether the electronic device
      is currently in use, and in response to determining that the electronic device is
      currently in use, the processor may control the transceiver to send the notification
      request to the at least one wearable device based on the status information and
      determine not to provide the notification on the electronic device.
[109]   According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a
      method for providing a notification from an electronic device is provided, the method

      including: receiving, from at least one wearable device, status information indicating
      whether the at least one wearable device is currently being worn; and determining
      whether to send a notification request to the at least one wearable device based on the
      status information.
[110]   The method may further include: in response to the status information indicating that
      the at least one wearable device is currently being worn, sending the notification
      request to the at least one wearable device.
[111]   The determining may further include determining whether to send the notification
      request to the at least one wearable device based on the status information in response
      to an occurrence of an event at the electronic device.
[112]   The event may include at least from among a text message event, an appointment
      reminder event, a system event, a social network event, a phone call event, an e-mail
      event, a low battery event, and a change of setting event.
[113]   The at least one wearable device may include a plurality of wearable devices. The
      method may further include setting an order of notification to the plurality of wearable
      devices based on the status information.
[114]   The determining further may include determining whether to send the notification
      request to a wearable device from among the plurality of wearable devices based on
      the status information and the order of notification.
[115]   The method may further include sending a plurality of notification requests to the
      plurality of wearable devices according to the order of notification.
[116]   The method may further include in response to the status information indicating that
      the at least one wearable device is currently in use, sending the notification request to
      the at least one wearable device.
[117]   The method may further include determining whether the electronic device is
      currently in use. The determining whether to send the notification request to the at least
      one wearable device may include determining whether to send the notification request
      to the at least one wearable device based on the status information and based on a
      result of the determining whether the electronic device is currently in use
[118]   The method may further include sending the notification request to the at least one
      wearable device in response to determining the electronic device is currently in use.
[119]   The method may further include providing the notification on the electronic device in
      response to determining the electronic device is currently in use.
[120]   According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a
      wearable device including: a transceiver configured to communicate with an electronic
      device; a notification provider configured to provide a notification; and a processor
      configured to control the transceiver to transmit status information to the electronic
      device and, in response to the transceiver receiving a notification request generated by

      the electronic device based on the transmitted status information, control the noti
      fication provider to provide the notification.
[121]   The status information may include information indicating that the wearable device is
      currently being worn.
[122]   The wearable device may include a sensor configured to detect whether the wearable
      device is currently being worn.
[123]   The sensor may be at least one from among a touch sensor, biosensor, a gyroscope,
      and an accelerometer.
[124]   The status information may include information indicating that the wearable device is
      currently in use.
[125]   According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment, there is provided a
      method for providing a notification on a wearable device, the method including:
      transmitting status information to an electronic device; receiving, from the electronic
      device, a notification request generated by the electronic device based on the
      transmitted status information; and providing a notification in response to the noti
      fication request.
[126]   The status information may include information indicating that the wearable device is
      currently being worn.
[127]   The status information may include information indicating that the wearable device is
      currently in use.
      Mode for the Invention
[128]   The advantages and features, and methods of accomplishing them will be apparent
      from exemplary embodiments that will be described below and the accompanying
      drawings. The exemplary embodiments may, however, be embodied in many different
      forms and should not be construed as being limited to the exemplary embodiments set
      forth herein. Rather, these exemplary embodiments are provided so that this disclosure
      will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the inventive concept to those of
      ordinary skill in the art. The spirit and scope of the inventive concept are defined by
      the appended claims.
[129]   The terms used herein will be briefly described and then the exemplary embodiments
      will be described in detail.
[130]   In the present disclosure, general terms are selected, if possible, in consideration of
      functions of the exemplary embodiments, but non-general terms may be selected
      according to the intentions of technicians in the this art, precedents, or new tech
      nologies, etc. Also, some terms may be arbitrarily chosen by the present applicant. In
      this case, the meanings of these terms will be explained in corresponding parts of the
      present disclosure in detail. Thus, the terms used herein should be defined not based on

      the names thereof but based on the meanings thereof and the whole context of the
      exemplary embodiments.
[131]    In the present disclosure, it should be understood that the terms, such as 'include' or
       'have,' etc., are intended to indicate the existence of the features, numbers, steps,
      actions, components, parts, or combinations thereof disclosed in the specification, and
      are not intended to preclude the possibility that one or more other features, numbers,
      steps, actions, components, parts, or combinations thereof may exist or may be added.
      Also, the term 'unit' should be understood as software or a hardware element, such as
      a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) or an application specific integrated circuit
      (ASIC). The term 'unit' is capable of performing functions. However, the term 'unit' is
      not limited to software or hardware. The term 'unit' may be an element that can be
      configured to be included in an addressable storage medium or can be configured to
      reproduce one or more processors. Thus, examples of the term 'unit' may include
      elements (such as software elements, object-oriented software elements, class
      elements, and task elements), processes, functions, attributes, procedures, subroutines,
      segments of program code, drivers, firmware, micro-codes, circuits, data, a database,
      data structures, tables, arrays, and variables. Functions provided in elements and units
      may be combined using a smaller number of elements and units or may be subdivided
      using additional elements and units.
[132]    As used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or more
      of the associated listed items. Expressions such as "at least one of," when preceding a
      list of elements, modify the entire list of elements and do not modify the individual
      elements of the list.
[133]    Hereinafter, exemplary embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the
      accompanying drawings so that those of ordinary skill in the art can easily accomplish
      them. Also, parts that are not related to describing the exemplary embodiments are
      omitted in the drawings for clarity.
[134]    FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrating an electronic device 110 and at least one wearable
      device 120 according to an exemplary embodiment.
[135]    According to one or more exemplary embodiments, the electronic device 110 and the
      at least one wearable device 120 operate while communicating with each other.
      According to the current exemplary embodiment, the at least one wearable device 120
      may provide a notification regarding a notification event occurring in the electronic
      device 110, and the electronic device 110 may provide a notification regarding a noti
      fication event occurring in the at least one wearable device 120.
[136]    The electronic device 110 may be embodied, for example, as a smartphone, a tablet
      personal computer (PC), a camera, a television, a home system control device, an au
      tomobile, etc.

[137]   The at least one wearable device 120 may be embodied, for example, as a smart
      watch, smart glasses, smart earphones, smart shoes, a smart ring, a smart bracelet, an
      automobile, etc.
[138]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification occurs in the
      electronic device 110 or the at least one wearable device 120, the notification may be
      provided by the at least one wearable device 120, the electronic device 110, or both the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120, based on whether the at
      least one wearable device 120 is worn or not by a user.
[139]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the number of the electronic device 110 is
      one and the number of the at least one wearable device 120 is one or more.
[140]   The notification event is an event that a notification should be immediately provided
      to a user. Examples of the notification event include receiving a phone call, receiving a
      text message, receiving a messenger application message, receiving an email, a
      schedule notification, a notification of a social network service (SNS) application, noti
      fications of various other applications, operating system notification, etc. According to
      one exemplary embodiment, a form of the notification event may be set by a user
      based on a setting menu of the electronic device 110.
[141]   FIG. 2 is a block diagram of a structure of an electronic device 1 10a according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[142]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110a includes
      a processor 210, a notification providing unit 220 (e.g., a notification provider), and a
      communication unit 230 (e.g., a transceiver).
[143]   The processor 210 controls overall operations of the electronic device 1 10a.
      According to the current exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 detects a noti
      fication event and determines a device that will provide a notification regarding the no
      tification event. A device that will provide the notification regarding the notification
      event may be one or more devices selected from among the electronic device 1 10a and
      at least one wearable device 120 that communicates with the electronic device 1 10a.
[144]   The processor 210 may determine the device that will provide the notification
      regarding the notification event, based on information indicating whether the at least
      one wearable device 120 is worn by a user. According to one exemplary embodiment,
      the processor 210 provides the notification to the at least one wearable device 120
      when the at least one wearable device 120 is in a wearing state, and provides the noti
      fication using the notification providing unit 220 of the electronic device 1 10a when
      the at least one wearable device 120 is in a non-wearing state. In one exemplary em
      bodiment, when the notification is provided to the at least one wearable device 120, the
      electronic device 1 10a may also provide the notification or may not provide the noti
      fication.

[145]   In the present disclosure, the term 'wearing state' means a state in which a user wears
      the at least one wearable device 120 and the term 'non-wearing state' means a state in
      which the user does not wear the at least one wearable device 120.
[146]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the information indicating whether the at
      least one wearable device 120 is worn includes sensing values of sensors included in
      the at least one wearable device 120. The sensing values may include, for example, a
      value indicating whether a locking structure is fastened, information regarding motion
      detection, a bio-signal, etc. According to the present exemplary embodiment, the
      processor 210 may determine whether the at least one wearable device 120 is in the
      wearing state or the non-wearing state, based on the information indicating whether the
      at least one wearable device 120 is worn.
[147]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the information indicating whether the
      at least one wearable device 120 is worn is information indicating whether the at least
      one wearable device 120 is in the wearing state or the non-wearing state. According to
      the current exemplary embodiment, whether the at least one wearable device 120 is in
      the wearing state or the non-wearing state is determined.
[148]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 may receive the in
      formation indicating whether the at least one wearable device 120 is worn by re
      questing the at least one wearable device 120 to provide this information.
[149]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the at least one wearable device 120
      may periodically transmit this information to the electronic device 1 10a, and the
      electronic device 1 10a may store this information in a storage unit (not shown) thereof.
      The processor 210 may obtain the information stored in the storage unit to determine a
      device to which the notification regarding the notification event is to be provided.
[150]   When the electronic device 1 10a is determined to provide the notification, the noti
      fication providing unit 220 provides the notification. The notification may be provided,
      for example, in the form of sound, vibration, turning on of a screen, flickering of a
      light-emitting diode (LED), etc.
[151]   The communication unit 230 communicates with at least one wearable device 120.
      The communication unit 230 may transmit a control signal, a signal indicating the state
      of the electronic device 1 10a, or data to the at least one wearable device 120, or receive
      a control signal, a signal indicating the state of the at least one wearable device 120, or
      data from the at least one wearable device 120.
[152]   When it is determined that the at least one wearable device 120 provides the noti
      fication or both the electronic device 1 10a and the at least one wearable device 120
      provide the notification, the processor 210 transmits a notification request to the at
      least one wearable device 120 to provide the notification, via the communication unit
      230. When receiving the notification request from the electronic device 1 10a, the at

      least one wearable device 120 provides the notification.
[153]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the notification request may include in
      formation regarding the type of the notification, contents of the notification, and form
      of the notification. The type of the notification may include, for example, a text
      message, a phone call, an email, a messenger message, an SNS notification, an ap
      plication notification, etc. The contents of the notification may include, for example,
      the transmitter and contents of a text message, the caller of the phone call, the
      transmitter and contents of a messenger message, the contents of an SNS notification,
      the contents of an application notification, etc. Also, the contents of the notification
      may include an icon, a picture, text and/or other graphic, or the like to be displayed
      when the notification is provided. The form of the notification may include, for
      example, sound, vibration, turning on of a screen, flickering of an LED, etc.
[154]   FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrating criteria for determining whether a wearable device is
      worn according to an exemplary embodiment.
[155]   As described above, according to exemplary embodiments, whether the wearable
      device is in the wearing state or the non-wearing state may be determined by the
      processor 210 of the electronic device 1 10a or the at least one wearable device 120.
      For example, it is determined that the at least one wearable device 120 is in the
      wearing state in a case in which a locking structure of the at least one wearable device
      120 is fastened and a reference time or less passes after a motion of the at least one
      wearable device 120 is detected, a case in which a reference time or less passes after a
      bio-signal is detected by the at least one wearable device 120, or a case in which the
      locking structure of the at least one wearable device 120 is fastened and a bio-signal is
      detected from the at least one wearable device 120.
[156]   Whether the locking structure of the at least one wearable device 120 is fastened may
      be determined using a sensing value of a sensor included in the locking structure of the
      at least one wearable device 120. Examples of the sensor included in the locking
      structure may include a conductive sensor, a hall sensor, a magnetic sensor, etc.
[157]   A motion of the at least one wearable device 120 may be detected using a motion
      sensor or an acceleration sensor included in the at least one wearable device 120.
[158]   The at least one wearable device 120 may include a biosensor that detects a bio
      signal and is thus capable of detecting a bio-signal. Examples of the biosensor may
      include a heart rate sensor, a pulse sensor, a blood pressure sensor, a sweat sensor, a
      body temperature sensor, an iris sensor, a fingerprint sensor, etc.
[159]   FIG. 4 is a block diagram of a structure of a notification providing unit 220 according
      to an exemplary embodiment.
[160]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the notification providing unit 220
      may include at least one selected from among a vibration unit 410 (e.g. a vibrator), a

      speaker 420, a display unit 430, and an LED 440. In one exemplary embodiment, the
      vibration unit 410, the speaker 420, the display unit 430, and the LED 440 may be se
      lectively included.
[161]   The vibration unit 410 generates vibration in the electronic device 1 10a of FIG. 2 by
      using a motor or the like. According to the current exemplary embodiment, when the
      vibration unit 410 provides a notification in the form of vibration, the vibration unit
      410 may provide the notification in the form of vibration having a predetermined
      pattern.
[162]   The speaker 420 outputs sound. According to the current exemplary embodiment,
      when the notification is provided in the form of sound, the speaker 420 may output
      preset notification sound. According to one exemplary embodiment, the type of the no
      tification sound may be preset by a user. According to one exemplary embodiment, the
      type of the notification sound may be preset based on the type of a notification event.
[163]   The display unit 430 displays various images thereon. According to the current
      exemplary embodiment, when the notification is provided by turning on a screen of the
      display unit 430 or in the form of message, the screen of the display unit 430 is turned
      on or a notification message may be displayed on the display unit 430 at a time of
      point that the notification is provided.
[164]   The LED 440 may provide the notification by being turned on or off.
[165]   FIG. 5 is a block diagram of a structure of a communication unit 230 according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[166]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the communication unit 230 may
      include at least one selected from a Bluetooth low energy (BLE) module 510, a
      Bluetooth module 520, a near field communication (NFC) module 530, a radio
      frequency (RF) module 540, and a mobile communication module 550. In one
      exemplary embodiment, the BLE module 510, the Bluetooth module 520, the NFC
      module 530, the RF module 540, and the mobile communication module 550 may be
      selectively included.
[167]   The mobile communication module 550 may transmit or receive a phone call or a
      text message or establish data communication via a mobile communication network.
      An example of the mobile communication network includes a communication network
      using at least one selected from among second-generation mobile communication (e.g.,
      Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA), Global system for Mobile communication
      (GSM), or Personal Digital Cellular (PDC)), third-generation mobile communication
      (e.g., International Mobile Telecommunication 2000 (IMT-2000), Wideband Code
      Division Multiple Access (W-CDMA), or Code Division Multiple Access 2000
      (CDMA2000), and fourth-generation mobile communication (e.g., Long Term
      Evolution (LTE) or Long Term Evolution advanced (LTE-A)).

[168]   FIG. 6 is a block diagram of a structure of a wearable device 120a according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[169]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120a includes
      a processor 610, a notification providing unit 620 (e.g., a notification provider, etc.),
      and a communication unit 630 (e.g., a transceiver, etc.).
[170]   The processor 610 controls overall operations of the wearable device 120a.
      According to the current exemplary embodiment, when the processor 610 receives a
      notification request from an electronic device 110 or another wearable device, the
      processor 610 provides a notification by using the notification providing unit 620. The
      notification may be provided based on information regarding the type of the noti
      fication, contents the notification and form of the notification included in the noti
      fication request.
[171]   When a notification event occurs in the wearable device 120a, the processor 610
      informs the electronic device 110 of the notification event. The notice of the noti
      fication event may include the type and contents of the notification event. For example,
      the type of the notification event includes a notification of an exercise application, a
      notification of an operating system (OS), etc. The contents of the notification event
      may include an increase in a heartbeat, a danger of a loss, a low battery capacity, a
      weak network signal, etc.
[172]   The processor 610 obtains information indicating whether the wearable device 120a
      is worn and transmits the information to the electronic device 110.
[173]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the information (i.e., status information)
      indicating whether the wearable device 120a is worn includes sensing values of sensors
      included in the wearable device 120a. For example, the sensing values may include in
      formation regarding whether a locking structure is fastened, information regarding
      motion detection, a bio-signal, etc. In an exemplary embodiment, the wearable device
      may sense that it is currently being worn based on a distance of the wearable device
      from a body of the user or from the electronic device 110. In yet another exemplary
      embodiment, the wearable device may sense that it is currently being worn based on
      whether it is in communication with the electronic device 110. According to the
      current exemplary embodiment, the processor 610 may transmit the sensing values to
      the electronic device 110.
[174]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the information indicating whether the
      wearable device 120a is worn is information indicating whether the wearable device
       120a is in the wearing state or the non-wearing state. According to the current
      exemplary embodiment, the processor 610 determines whether the wearable device
       120a is in the wearing state or the non-wearing state based on the sensing values, and
      transmits a result of determining whether the wearable device 120a is in the wearing

      state or the non-wearing state to the electronic device 110.
[175]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the processor 610 periodically transmits to
      the electronic device 110 the information indicating whether the wearable device 120a
      is worn. According to another exemplary embodiment, the processor 610 transmits the
      information indicating whether the wearable device 120a is worn to the electronic
      device 110 when the electronic device 110 requests the information.
[176]    When it is determined that the wearable device 120a will provide the notification, the
      notification providing unit 620 provides the notification. The notification may be
      provided, for example, in the form of sound, vibration, turning on of a screen,
      flickering of an LED, etc.
[177]   The communication unit 630 communicates with the electronic device 110. The com
      munication unit 630 may transmit a control signal, a signal indicating a state of the
      wearable device 120a, or data to the electronic device 110 or may receive a control
      signal, a signal indicating a state of the electronic device 110, or data from the
      electronic device 110.
[178]   FIG. 7 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[179]   An electronic device that performs methods of providing a notification according to
      various exemplary embodiments may be, for example, the electronic device 1 10a il
      lustrated in FIG. 2 that includes the processor 210, the notification providing unit 220,
      and the communication unit 230. However, exemplary embodiments are not limited to
      the electronic device 1 10a of FIG. 2 and methods of providing a notification may be
      performed by electronic devices having various structures according to exemplary em
      bodiments. Exemplary embodiments performed by the electronic device 1 10a of FIG.
      2 will be described.
[180]   The processor 210 obtains information indicating whether the at least one wearable
      device 120 is worn by a user (operation S702).
[181]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the information indicating whether the at
      least one wearable device 120 is worn includes sensing values of sensors included in
      the at least one wearable device 120. According to the current exemplary embodiment,
      the processor 210 may determine whether the at least one wearable device 120 is in the
      wearing state or the non-wearing state, based on the information indicating whether the
      at least one wearable device 120 is worn.
[182]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the information indicating whether the
      at least one wearable device 120 is worn is information regarding whether the at least
      one wearable device 120 is in the wearing state or the non-wearing state. According to
      the current exemplary embodiment, the at least one wearable device determines
      whether the at least one wearable device 120 is in the wearing state or the non-wearing

      state.
[183]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 may obtain the in
      formation indicating whether the at least one wearable device 120 is worn by re
      questing the at least one wearable device 120 to provide this information.
[184]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the at least one wearable device 120
      may periodically transmit the information indicating whether the at least one wearable
      device 120 is worn to the electronic device 1 10a, and the electronic device 1 10a may
      store this information in a storage unit thereof (not shown). The processor 210 may
      obtain the information stored in the storage unit to determine a device to which the no
      tification regarding the notification event is to be provided.
[185]   Next, when it is determined that the at least one wearable device 120 is in the
      wearing state (operation S704), the processor 210 requests the at least one wearable
      device 120 to provide the notification (operation S706). When it is determined that any
      one of the at least one wearable device 120 is not in the wearing state (operation S704),
      the notification providing unit 230 of the electronic device 1 10a provides the noti
      fication (operation S708).
[186]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, a notification may be provided to a
      wearable device that is in the wearing state, thereby increasing a probability that a user
      will check the notification.
[187]   FIG. 8 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
      fication when there are a plurality of wearable devices in a wearing state, according to
      an exemplary embodiment. The exemplary embodiment of FIG. 8 is applicable to
      exemplary embodiments in which whether a wearable device that is in a wearing state
      exists is determined.
[188]   When it is determined that there are wearable devices that are in the wearing state
      (operation S802-YES), the processor 210 determines whether the number of the
      wearable devices in the wearing state is more than one (operation S806). When it is de
      termined that there are no wearable devices that are in the wearing state (operation
      S802-NO), the electronic device provides the notification (operation S804). When it is
      determined that there is one wearable device in the wearing state (operation S806-NO),
      the wearable device that is being worn is requested to provide a notification (operation
      S808).
[189]   When it is determined that there are a plurality of wearable devices in the wearing
      state (operation S806-YES), it is determined whether a wearable device that is in use is
      present among the plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state (operation S810).
      The processor 210 may request the plurality of wearable devices that are being worn to
      provide information indicating whether they are in use to determine whether the
      plurality of wearable devices are in use.

[190]   In one exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120 or the electronic device 110
      may be determined to be in use if the wearable device 120 or the electronic device 110
      have received input from the user within a predetermined time, are reproducing
      content, the wearable device 120 or the electronic device 110 are executing an ap
      plication, the wearable device 120 or the electronic device 110 are being operated in
      some manner by a user, or a sensor of either the wearable device 120 or the electronic
      device 110 is detecting the use of the wearable device 120 or the electronic device 110
      by the user. The states of the wearable device 120 and the electronic device 110 may
      be stored in the electronic device 110, wearable device 120 or both. In addition, the
      state of both devices may be updated periodically or upon request of an application or
      a user by receiving information about use from the wearable device 120 or the
      electronic device 110. When a wearable device in use is present among the plurality of
      wearable devices in the wearing state, the wearable device that is in the wearing state
      and in use is requested to provide the notification (operation S812). When no wearable
      device in use is present among the plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state,
      one of the plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state is requested to provide the
      notification, based on set priorities (operation S814).
[191]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the set priorities may be criteria de
      termined in consideration of a user's state, a remaining charge capacity of a battery,
      etc. When a plurality of wearable devices in the wearing state are present, additional
      criterion may be used to determine a wearable device to which the notification is to be
      provided.
[192]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the set priorities may be preset
      priorities.
[193]   FIG. 9 is a table illustrating preset priorities according to an exemplary embodiment.
[194]   The preset priorities are priorities determined beforehand by a designer or set by a
      user.
[195]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the preset priorities are allocated to
      wearable devices that will provide a notification, based on the type of the notification.
      For example, in the case of a sound notification, priorities may be sequentially
      allocated to smart glasses, a smart watch, and a smart band. In the case of a vibration
      notification, priorities may be allocated to the smart watch, the smart band, and the
      smart glasses. In the case of a screen notification, priorities may be sequentially
      allocated to the smart glasses and the smart watch.
[196]   In addition, priorities may be allocated to wearable devices regardless of the type of
      the notification.
[197]   FIG. 10 is a diagram illustrating a method of providing a notification when there are
      a plurality of wearable devices in a wearing state according to an exemplary em-

      bodiment.
[198]   As in the exemplary embodiment described above with reference to FIG. 8, when a
      plurality of wearable devices are in the wearing state, only one of the plurality of
      wearable devices is provided with a notification in consideration of the usage states of
      the wearable devices and set priorities, thereby preventing a notification from being
      excessively provided to a user. For example, according to the current exemplary em
      bodiment, when two wearable devices, e.g., smart glasses 120-1 and a smart watch
      120-2, are in the wearable device as illustrated in FIG. 10, a notification is provided to
      only the smart glasses 120-1, considering whether the smart glasses 120-1 and the
      smart watch 120-2 are in use, the set priorities, etc. If the notification is provided to
      both the smart glasses 120-1 and the smart watch 120-2 in the case of FIG. 10, a user
      may be startled or provided with the notification more than necessary. Accordingly,
      according to the current exemplary embodiment, it is possible to appropriately provide
      a notification while minimizing interruptions that may be caused to the user.
[199]   FIG. 11 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[200]   In the method according to the current exemplary embodiment, whether wearable
      devices that are in the wearing state are present and whether an electronic device or at
      least one wearable device that is in use is present are considered.
[201]   When a notification event is detected (operation S1101), the processor 210 de
      termines whether any one of the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable
      device 120 is in use (operation SI 102). The processor 210 may determine whether the
      at least one wearable device 120 is in use by requesting the at least one wearable
      device 120 to provide information indicating whether it is in use.
[202]   When it is determined in operation S1102 that any one of the electronic device 110
      and the at least one wearable device 120 is in use, a notification is provided to a device
      that is in use (operation S 1104).
[203]   When it is determined in operation S 1102 that any one of the electronic device 110
      and the at least one wearable device 120 is not in use, the processor 210 obtains the in
      formation indicating whether the at least one wearable device 120 is in the wearing
      state (operation S 1106) and determines whether any one of the at least one wearable
      device 120 is in the wearing state (operation S1108). If any one of the at least one
      wearing device 120 is in the wearing state, the wearable device in the wearing state is
      requested to provide the notification (operation S1110). If any one of the at least one
      wearing device 120 is not in the wearing state, the electronic device 110 or the at least
      one wearable device 120 is requested to provide the notification according to set
      priorities (operation S 1112).
[204]   FIG. 12 is a table illustrating cases in which it is determined that a device is in use

      according to an exemplary embodiment.
[205]   As illustrated in FIG. 12, the processor 210 may determine that a wearable device in
      use in a case in which music or video is being played back, a case in which a reference
      time or less passes after a user input is detected, a case in which a screen is being
      updated according to a user command, or a case in which a screen is turned on. In one
      exemplary embodiment, additional criteria may be further added or various criteria
      may be determined.
[206]   The processor 210 of the electronic device 1 10a requests each wearable device to
      provide information indicating whether the wearable device is in use, receives this in
      formation, and determines whether the wearable device is in use, based on the in
      formation.
[207]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the information indicating whether the
      wearable device is in use is information indicating whether the wearable device is in
      use or not. In this case, it may be determined that the wearable device is in use when
      music or video is being played back in the wearable device, when a reference time or
      less passes after a user input is detected, when a screen is being updated according to a
      user command, or when a screen is turned on. When a state of the wearable device
      does not correspond to any of these cases, it may be determined that the wearable
      device is not in use and information indicating this fact may be transmitted to the
      electronic device 1 10a.
[208]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the information indicating whether the
      wearable device is in use may include information indicating whether music or video is
      being played back, a point of time when a latest user input is detected, information in
      dicating whether a screen is being updated, information indicating whether the screen
      is turned on, etc. In this case, the processor 210 of the electronic device I 10a may
      receive this information from the wearable device and determine whether the wearable
      device is in use, based on this information.
[209]   FIG. 13 is a diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment in which whether the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 are in use is considered.
[210]   In an exemplary embodiment in which a notification is provided considering whether
      the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 that communicate
      with each other are in use, the notification may be provided to a device that a user is
      likely to check. In particular, when the notification is provided to a device in use, the
      notification may be provided to the device to which the user is currently paying
      attention. Accordingly, the user need not manipulate another device to check the noti
      fication, thereby increasing user convenience.
[211]   FIG. 14 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.

[212]   In the method according to the current exemplary embodiment, first, whether there is
      a wearable device in the wearing state is determined, and whether there is a device that
      is in use is determined when there is no wearable device in the wearing state, unlike in
      the method of FIG. 11.
[213]   When a notification event is detected (operation S 1402), the processor 210 obtains
      information indicating whether at least one wearable device is worn by a user
      (operation S 1404) and determines whether any one of the at least one wearable device
      is in the wearing state (operation S 1406). When a wearable device in the wearing state
      is present, the wearable device is requested to provide a notification (operation S1408).
[214]   When any wearable device is not in the wearing state, the processor 210 determines
      whether any device is in use among the electronic device 110 and the at least one
      wearable device 120 (operation S 1410). When it is determined in operation S1410 that
      a device in use is present, the notification is provided to the device in use (operation
      S1412).
[215]   When it is determined in operation S1410 that a device in use is not present, the
      electronic device 110 or the at least one wearable device 120 is requested to provide
      the notification according to set priorities (operation S1414).
[216]   FIG. 15 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
      fication when a plurality of devices are in use according to an exemplary embodiment.
      The exemplary embodiment of FIG. 15 is applicable to determine whether devices that
      are in use are present.
[217]   When it is determined that there is a device in use (operation S1502), whether a
      plurality of devices are in use is determined (operation S1506). When it is determined
      in operation S1506 that only one device is in use, the notification is provided to the
      device (operation S1508). When it is determined in operation S 1506 that a plurality of
      devices are in use, the notification is provided to the plurality of devices according to
      set priorities. The set priorities may be determined in various ways, e.g., such that the
      notification is provided to a wearable device in the wearing state or such that a device
      to which the notification is to be provided is determined according to predetermined
      and stored priorities.
[218]   When it is determined that a device in use is not present (operation S1502), the noti
      fication is provided according to the set priorities (operation S1504). The set priorities
      may be determined in various ways, e.g., such that the notification is provided to a
      wearable device in the wearing state or such that a device to which the notification is to
      be provided is determined according to predetermined and stored priorities.
[219]   FIG. 16 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
      fication according to an exemplary embodiment.
[220]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, if whether a device in use is

      present is considered when a device to which a notification is to be provided is de
      tennined, the processor 210 further considers whether a notification is permitted to be
      provided while a function of the device in use is performed so as to determine a device
      to which the notification is to be provided. The current exemplary embodiment is ap
      plicable to all of exemplary embodiments in which whether a device in use is present is
      considered.
[221]   First, the processor 210 determines whether a device in use is present (operation
      S1602).
[222]   When it is determined in operation S1602 that a device in use is present, the
      processor 210 determines whether the notification is permitted to be provided while a
      function of the device in use is performed (operation S1604).
[223]   When it is determined in operation S 1604 that the notification is permitted to be
      provided while the function of the device in use is performed, the processor 210
      provides the notification to the device in use (operation S 1606).
[224]   When it is determined in operation S1604 that the notification is not permitted to be
      provided while the function of the device in use is performed, the processor 210 de
      termines a device that will provide the notification among other devices except for the
      device in use, based on set priorities (operation S 1608).
[225]   When it is determined in operation S1602 that a device in use is not present, the
      processor 210 determines a device that will provide the notification, based on the set
      priorities (operation S1610).
[226]   In operation S1612, the determined devices are then requested to provide a noti
      fication (operation S1612).
[227]   FIG. 17 is a diagram illustrating a case in which a notification is provided according
      to an exemplary embodiment.
[228]   In the current exemplary embodiment, when a device in use is present, it is de
      termined whether a notification is permitted to be provided while a function is
      performed in the device in use as described above with reference to FIG. 16. FIG. 17
      illustrates a case in which a text message is input to the electronic device 110 while a
      game is being played in the electronic device 110. In this case, even if user input is
      detected within a reference time and it is thus determined that the electronic device 110
      is in use, a user is interrupted when the notification is provided while the user is
      playing the game. Thus, the processor 210 determines that the notification is not
      permitted while the function is performed. Thus, the processor 210 provides the noti
      fication to the at least one wearable device 120 instead of the electronic device 110 in
      use.
[229]   FIG. 18 is a diagram illustrating that a notification is provided according to an
      exemplary embodiment.

[230]   In the current exemplary embodiment, when a device in use is present, it is de
      ternined whether a notification is permitted to be provided while a function is
      performed in the device, as described above with reference to FIG. 16. FIG. 18 il
      lustrates a case in which a text message is received while a user makes a phone call
      with the electronic device 110. For example, as illustrated in FIG. 18, if a phone call is
      made with the electronic device 110, a screen of the electronic device 110 is turned on
      and thus the electronic device 110 is determined to be in use. However, when a noti
      fication is provided during the phone call, the user is interrupted by the notification and
      the processor 210 thus determines that the notification is not permitted to be provided
      while this function is performed. Accordingly, the processor 210 provides the noti
      fication to the at least one wearable device 120 instead of the electronic device 110.
[231]   FIG. 19 is a table illustrating a list of functions that do not permit a notification to be
      provided while the functions are performed according to an exemplary embodiment.
[232]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 may determine whether
      a notification is permitted to be provided while a function is performed, based on a list
      of functions that do not permit a notification to be provided while the functions are
      performed. For example, the list of functions may include a game function, a
      navigation function, video reproduction function, a presentation function, etc. The list
      of functions may be stored in a storage unit (not shown) or the like.
[233]   FIG. 20 is a block diagram of a structure of an electronic device 110b according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[234]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110b includes
      a processor 210, a notification providing unit 220 (e.g., a notification provider), a com
      munication unit 230 (e.g., a communicator), and a sensor unit 2010 (e.g., a sensor).
[235]   The processor 210 controls overall operations of the electronic device 110b.
      According to the current exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 detects a noti
      fication event and determines a device to which a notification of the notification event
      is to be provided. The device to which the notification of the notification event is to be
      provided may be at least one device selected from among the electronic device 110b
      and at least one wearable device 120 that communicates with the electronic device
      110b.
[236]   The processor 210 may determine a device to which the notification of the noti
      fication event is to be provided, based on information indicating whether the at least
      one wearable device 120 is worn by a user. According to one exemplary embodiment,
      the processor 210 provides the notification of the notification event to the at least one
      wearable device 120 when the at least one wearable device 120 is in the wearing state,
      and provides the notification by using the providing unit 220 of the electronic device
       110b when the at least one wearable device 120 is not in the wearing state. In one

      exemplary embodiment, when the notification is provided to the at least one wearable
      device 120, the electronic device 1 10b may also provide the notification or the
      electronic device 110b may not provide the notification.
[237]    When it is determined that the electronic device 1 10b provides the notification, the
      notification providing unit 220 provides the notification. The notification may be
      provided, for example, in the form of sound, vibration, turning on of a screen,
      flickering of an LED, etc.
[238]    The communication unit 230 communicates with the at least one wearable device
       120.
[239]    When it is determined that the at least one wearable device 120 provides the noti
      fication or both the electronic device 1 10a and the at least one wearable device 120
      provide the notification, the processor 210 transmits a notification request to the at
      least one wearable device 120 via the communication unit 230 to request to provide the
      notification. When receiving the notification request from the electronic device 1 10b,
      the at least one wearable device 120 provides the notification to the at least one
      wearable device 120.
[240]    The sensor unit 2010 includes at least one sensor. The processor 210 may determine
      a user's state or a state of the electronic device 1 10b by using a sensing value of a
      sensor included in the sensor unit 2010.
[241]    FIG. 21 is a block diagram of a structure of a wearable device 120b according to an
      exemplary embodiment;
[242]    According to the current exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b includes
      a processor 610, a notification providing unit 620 (e.g., a notification provider), a com
      munication unit 630 (e.g., a communicator), and a sensor unit 21 10(e.g., a sensor).
[243]    The processor 610 controls overall operations of the wearable device 120b. In the
      current exemplary embodiment, when the processor 610 receives a notification request
      from an electronic device 110 or another wearable device, the processor 610 provides a
      notification by using the notification providing unit 620. The notification may be
      provided based on information regarding the type of the notification, contents of the
      notification, and form of the notification included in the notification request.
[244]    When a notification event occurs in the wearable device 120b, the processor 610
      informs the electronic device 110 of the notification event. The notification of the noti
      fication event may include information regarding the type of the notification and
      contents of notification event.
[245]    The processor 610 obtains at least one among information regarding whether the
      wearable device 120b is worn by a user and information regarding a state of the
      wearable device 120b, and transmits the obtained information to the electronic device
       110.

[246]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the information regarding whether the
      wearable device 120b is worn by a user includes sensing values of sensors included in
      the sensor unit 2110.
[247]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the information regarding whether the
      wearable device 120b is worn by a user indicates whether the wearable device 120b is
      in the wearing state or the non-wearing state. According to the current exemplary em
      bodiment, the processor 2110 determines whether the wearable device 120b is in the
      wearing state or the non-wearing state based on the sensing values obtained by the
      sensor unit 2110, and transmits a result of determining whether the wearable device
      120b is in the wearing state or the non-wearing state to the electronic device 110.
[248]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the infonnation regarding the state of the
      wearable device 120b includes the sensing values of the sensors included in the sensor
      unit 2110.
[249]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the information regarding the state of
      the wearable device 120b is information indicating a result of determining the state of
      the wearable device 120b based on the sensing values of the sensor unit 2110 by the
      processor 610. According to the current exemplary embodiment, the processor 610
      may detennine the state of the wearable device 120b as being held with a user's hand,
      being held by a car holder, being put in a bag, etc, based on the sensing values of the
      sensor unit 2120.
[250]   When it is detennined that the wearable device 120b will provide the notification, the
      notification providing unit 620 provides the notification. The notification may be
      provided, for example, in the form of sound, vibration, turning on of a screen,
      flickering of an LED, etc.
[251]   The communication unit 630 communicates with the electronic device 110. The com
      munication unit 630 may transmit a control signal, a signal indicating the state of the
      wearable device 120b, data, etc. to the electronic device 110 or receive a control signal,
      a signal indicating the state of the electronic device 110, data, etc. from the electronic
      device 110.
[252]   The sensor unit 2110 includes at least one sensor. The processor 610 may determine
      the state of a user or the state of the wearable device 120b, based on a sensing value of
      the at least one sensor included in the sensor unit 2110.
[253]   FIG. 22 is a block diagram of a structure of a sensor unit 2010 included in the
      electronic device 110b of FIG. 20 or a structure of a sensor unit 2110 included in the
      wearable device 120b of FIG. 21 according to an exemplary embodiment.
[254]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the sensor unit 2010 or 2110 may include
      at least one selected among an illumination sensor 2202, a biosensor 2204, an in
      clination sensor 2206, a position detection module 2208, a proximity/touch sensor

      2210, a touch screen 2212, a camera 2214, a temperature sensor 2216, an infrared
      sensor 2218, and an acceleration sensor 2220. In addition, the sensor unit 2010 or 2110
      may further include other various sensors.
[255]   The sensor unit 2010 or 2110 may include various combinations of sensors according
      to the types of the electronic device 110b and the wearable device 120b. For example,
      when the electronic device 110b is embodied in the form of a smartphone, the sensor
      unit 2010 may include the illumination sensor 2202, the inclination sensor 2206, the
      position detect ion module 2208, the proximity/touch sensor 2210, the touch screen
      2212, the camera 2214, and the acceleration sensor 2220. When the wearable device
       120b is embodied in the form of a smart watch, the sensor unit 2110 may include the
      biosensor 2204 (e.g., a heart rate sensor, a blood pressure sensor, a sweat sensor, etc.),
      the inclination sensor 2206, the touch screen 2212, the temperature sensor 2216, and
      the acceleration sensor 2220. When the wearable device 120b is embodied in the form
      of smart glasses, the sensor unit 2110 may include the illumination sensor 2202, the
      biosensor 2204 (e.g., a pulse sensor, an iris sensor, etc.), the inclination sensor 2206,
      the position detection module 2208, the proximity/touch sensor 2210, the camera 2214,
      and the acceleration sensor 2220.
[256]   Examples of the position detection module 2208 may include a global positioning
      system (GPS) module, a Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS) module, a Bluetooth Low
      Energy (BLE) module, etc.
[257]   FIG. 23 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device 120b according to
      an exemplary embodiment.
[258]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b may be
      embodied in the form of a smart watch. In the wearable device 120b in the form of a
      smart watch, the sensors included in the sensor unit 2110 may be disposed on a bottom
      2322 of a watch plate 2330, an inner circumferential surface 2324 of a watch strap
      2310, a locking unit 2326, etc. For example, a heart rate sensor, a temperature sensor, a
      sweat sensor, a blood pressure sensor, a proximity sensor, etc. may be disposed on the
      bottom 2322 of the watch plate 2330. A proximity/touch sensor, etc. may also be
      disposed on the inner circumferential surface 2424 of the watch strap 2310. A
      conductive sensor, a hall sensor, a magnetic sensor, etc. may be disposed on the
      locking unit 2326 to sense whether the locking unit 2326 is fastened. A touch screen
      may be disposed on the watch plate 2330. In addition, an acceleration sensor, an illu
      mination sensor, etc. may be disposed on various locations on the wearable device
      120b.
[259]   The wearable device 120b in the form of a smart watch may have a structure in
      which the watch strap 2310 is detachable from the watch plate 2330. In this case, a
      sensor (e.g., a conductive sensor, a proximity sensor, a hall sensor, a magnetic sensor,

      etc.) may be disposed on portions of the watch strap 2310 and the watch plate 2330
      that are combined with each other to detect whether the watch strap 2310 and the
      watch plate 2330 are combined with each other.
[260]   In wearable device 120b such as a smart watch, the processor 610 may sense a
      motion of a user by using an acceleration sensor. For example, the processor 610 may
      determine whether the user is taking exercise or is driving a car, based on an ac
      celeration pattern of sensed by the acceleration sensor.
[261]   The processor 610 may determine whether the locking unit 2326 is fastened and
      whether the smart watch is in the wearing state or the non-wearing state, based on a
      value sensed by a biosensor such as a heart rate sensor.
[262]   FIG. 24 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device 120b according to
      an exemplary embodiment.
[263]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b may be
      embodied in the form of smart glasses. In the wearable device 120b in the form of
      smart glasses, sensors may be disposed on a glass frame 2410, glass temples 2420,
      portions 2430 of the glass temples 2420 that contact the temples of a user, nose pads
      2440, glass lenses 2450, etc. For example, a touch sensor may be disposed on the glass
      frame 2410 or the glass temples 2420, a pulse sensor may be disposed on the portions
      2430, an acceleration sensor or a touch sensor may be disposed on the nose pads 2440,
      or an iris sensor may be disposed on the glass lenses 2450. That is, various sensors
      may be disposed on various locations on the wearable device 120b. According to one
      exemplary embodiment, a camera 2460 may be disposed on a predetermined location
      on the glass temples 2420 or the glass frame 2410.
[264]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b in the form of
      smart glasses captures an image of a front area by using the camera 2460 and analyzes
      the captured image to determine the state of a user. For example, as illustrated in FIG.
      24, it may be determined that the user is reading a book when a book is photographed
      by the camera 2460.
[265]   FIG. 25 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device 120b according to
      an exemplary embodiment.
[266]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b may be
      embodied in the form of earphones. In the wearable device 120b in the form of
      earphones, a sensor may be disposed on an outer circumferential portion 2510, a sound
      board 2520, etc. For example, a heart rate sensor may be disposed on the outer circum
      ferential portion 2510 and a temperature sensor may be disposed on the sound board
      2520.
[267]   FIG. 26 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device 120b according to
      an exemplary embodiment.

[268]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b may be
      embodied in the form of a smart shoe. In the wearable device 120b, a sensor may be
      disposed on a body 2610, a sole 2620, an insert 2630, etc. For example, a heart rate
      sensor, a temperature sensor, a sweat sensor, a piezoelectric sensor, or the like may be
      disposed in the insert 2630. An acceleration sensor, a motion sensor, a position
      detection module, or the like may also be disposed in the body 2610, the sole 2620, the
      insert 2630, etc.
[269]   FIG. 27 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device 120b according to
      an exemplary embodiment.
[270]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b may be
      embodied in the form of a smart ring. In the wearable device 120b in the form of smart
      ring, a sensor may be disposed on a display unit 2710, a body 2720, an inner circum
      ferential surface 2730, an outer circumferential surface 2740, etc. For example, a touch
      screen may be disposed on the display unit 2710, a temperature sensor or a heart rate
      sensor may be disposed on the inner circumferential surface 2730, or an acceleration
      sensor, a position detection module, a motion sensor, an illumination sensor, of the like
      may be disposed on the body 2720. A touch sensor may also be disposed on the outer
      circumferential surface 2740.
[271]   FIG. 28 is a diagram illustrating a structure of a wearable device 120b according to
      an exemplary embodiment.
[272]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the wearable device 120b may be
      embodied in the form of a smart bracelet. In the wearable device 120b in the form of a
      smart bracelet, a sensor may be disposed on a body 2810, a locking unit 2820, an inner
      circumferential surface 2830, or the like. For example, an acceleration sensor, a motion
      sensor, a position detection module, or the like may be disposed on the body 2810; a
      conductive sensor, a hall sensor, a magnetic sensor, or the like may be disposed on the
      locking unit 2820 to sense whether the locking unit 2820 is fastened; or a temperature
      sensor, a heart rate sensor, or the like may be disposed on the inner circumferential
      surface 2830.
[273]   FIG. 29 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device to which a notification is
      to be provided according to another exemplary embodiment.
[274]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 of the electronic
      device 1 10a or 110b considers whether a recognizable device is present to determine a
      device to which a notification is to be provided.
[275]   When it is determined that recognizable device is present (operation S2902), the
      processor 210 requests the recognizable device to provide a notification (operation
      S2904). When it is determined that a recognizable device is not present (operation
      S2902), the processor 210 determines a device that will provide the notification, based

      on set priorities (operation S2906) and requests this device to provide the notification
      (operation S2908).
[276]   For example, in operations S814, S1112, S1414, S1504, S1510, and S 1610, the
      exemplary embodiment of FIG. 29 may be one of the set priorities when a device to
      which the notification is to be provided is determined based on the set priorities.
[277]   FIG. 30 is a table illustrating criteria for determining whether a device is a rec
      ognizable device and a non-recognizable device according to an exemplary em
      bodiment.
[278]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 determines whether a
      recognizable device is present. That is, the processor 210 only determines whether a
      recognizable device is present, and determines a current state as a non-recognizable
      state when there is no recognizable device. A device that is held with a user's hand, a
      device that is held by a car holder but a navigation function is not run therein, a device
      in which music is played back, a device via which a conversation is being conducted, a
      device in which user's eye contact is detected, etc. may be determined a recognizable
      device. According to the current exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 does not
      determine whether a device is in a non-recognizable state.
[279]   When pressure having a reference level or more is detected by a pressure sensor
      included in a housing of a device and a motion is sensed, the device may be de
      termined as a device that is held with a user's hand. As another example, a device may
      be determined as a device that is held with a user's hand when a fingerprint is
      recognized or a temperature is sensed.
[280]   Whether the electronic device 110 or the at least one wearable device 120 is
      combined with a car holder may be determined using a sensor included in an interface
      between the car holder and the electronic device 110 or the at least one wearable
      device 120. For example, whether the electronic device 100 is combined with the car
      holder may be determined using a magnetic sensor, a hall sensor, a conductive sensor,
      a piezoelectric sensor, or the like that is included in a housing of the electronic device
       110 that contacts or that is combined with the car holder. As another example, whether
      the electronic device 110 or the at least one wearable device 120 is combined with the
      car holder may be determined by detecting whether an electrode of the car holder
      contacts an electrode of the electronic device 110 or an electrode of the at least one
      wearable device 120 or by exchanging a signal between these electrodes.
[281]   That music is being played back may be perceived through a function that is being
      performed in a device.
[282]   That a conversion is being conducted may be perceived by receiving external voice
      using a microphone and perceiving a predetermined pattern of the external voice. For
      example, that a conversation is being conducted may be perceived by sensing

      repetitive voice of a specific person.
[283]   User's eye contact may be detected by capturing an image using a camera disposed
      near a display unit of the electronic device 110 or the at least one wearable device 120
      and detecting the eyes of a user from the image.
[284]   FIG. 31 is a diagram illustrating a method of detecting a line of sight according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[285]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, an electronic device 110 or a
      wearable device 120 may include a display unit 3120 and a camera 310 capable of
      photographing a subject that the display unit 3120 faces. According to the current
      exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 of the electronic device 110 or the
      processor 610 of the at least one wearable device 120 may detect a line of a user's
      sight of by photographing a subject that the display unit 3120 faces by using the
      camera 3110. For example, whether the line of the user's sight is toward the electronic
      device 110 or the wearable device 120 may be determined by detecting the eyes of the
      user from an image the camera 3110.
[286]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110 may
      perceive that the line of the user's sight is toward the electronic device 110 itself rather
      than the at least one wearable device 120.
[287]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 may determine
      whether a non-recognizable device is present and determine a current state as a rec
      ognizable state when a non-recognizable device is not detected. In this case, the
      processor 210 does not determine whether a device is recognizable. For example, the
      processor 210 may determine that a device is in a non-recognizable state when a user is
      driving a car, is on the move, or is in a movie theater, when the device is in a do
      not-disturb mode or in an airplane mode, when a phone call is conducted using the
      device, when the device is put in a bag or pocket, etc.
[288]   That the user is driving a car may be detected using the motion of a smart watch, a
      smart ring, or a smart bracelet. For example, it may be determined the user is driving a
      car when a motion of steering a handle is detected by a smart watch, a smart ring, or a
      smart bracelet. When a navigation function is run the electronic device 110 or the at
      least one wearable device 120, the processor 210 may also perceive that the user is
      driving a car. When an image viewed through front glass of an automobile, an image
      of a dashboard, an image of a side mirror, etc. is detected by a camera of smart glasses,
      it may also be determined that a user is driving a car.
[289]   When an irregular motion of the electronic device 110 or the wearable device 120 is
      detected together with a change in the location thereof, it may be determined that a
      user is on the move.
[290]   When the intensity of illumination is a reference level or less and a position detection

      module detects that a user is in a movie theater, it may be determined that the user in
      the movie theater. When an image of a movie theater is captured by a camera of smart
      glasses, it may also be determined that a user in a movie theater.
[291]   The do-not-disturb mode, the airplane mode, etc. may be perceived by determining a
      mode set in a device.
[292]   That a user is making a phone call may be perceived by detecting a function that is
      being performed in a device.
[293]   When the intensity of illumination sensed by an illumination sensor is equal to a
      reference level or less and a proximity sensor senses that an object is adjacent to a
      device, it may be determined that the device is put in a bag or a pocket.
[294]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 may detect cases in
      which a device is in a recognizable state or in a non-recognizable state and may not
      consider whether the device can be recognized when the device is neither in the rec
      ognizable state nor the non-recognizable state.
[295]   FIG. 32 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[296]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, even if a notification event occurs
      (operation S3202), when the electronic device 110 is in the do-not-disturb mode
      (operation S3204), providing of a notification is skipped (operation S3206).
[297]   The do-not-disturb mode is a mode in which a notification is not provided to a user.
      According to an exemplary embodiment, a notification of all of notification events
      including a phone call may be skipped in the do-not-disturb mode. According to
      another exemplary embodiment, in the do-not-disturb mode, a notification of a phone
      call may be provided but a notification of notification events except for the phone call
      may be skipped.
[298]   According to one exemplary embodiment, when the providing of the notification is
      skipped (operation S3206), the contents of the notification event may be stored in the
      electronic device 110 and the notification may be provided to a user when the user
      turns on a screen of the electronic device 110.
[299]   When the electronic device 110 is not in the do-not-disturb mode (operation S3204),
      the processor 210 may determine a device that will provide the notification, based
      various criteria according to various exemplary embodiments (operation S3208), and
      request the determined device to provide the notification (operation S3210).
[300]   FIG. 33 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[301]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs
      (operation S3302), whether a device that is in the do-not-disturb mode is present
      among the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 is de-

      termined (operation S3304). The processor 210 of the electronic device 110 may
      request the at least one wearable device 120 to provide information indicating whether
      the at least one wearable device 120 is in the do-not-disturb mode and receive this in
      formation so as to determine whether the at least one wearable device 120 is in the do
      not-disturb mode.
[302]   When a device that is in the do-not-disturb mode is present among the electronic
      device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 (operation S3304), a device that
      will provide a notification (except for the device that is in the do-not-disturb mode) is
      determined according to various exemplary embodiments (operation S3306). For
      example, when the electronic device 110 is in the do-not-disturb mode, a device that
      will provide the notification (except for the electronic device 110) is determined. As
      another example, a device that will provide the notification (except for the at least one
      wearable device 120 that is in the do-not-disturb mode) is determined.
[303]   When a device that is in the do-not-disturb mode is not present (operation S3304), a
      device that will provide the notification is selected from among the electronic device
       110 and the at least one wearable device 120 (operation S3310).
[304]   When a device that will provide the notification is determined, this device is
      requested to provide the notification (operation S3308).
[305]   FIG. 34 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[306]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs
      (operation S3402), whether a device having an insufficient battery capacity is present
      among the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 is de
      termined (operation S3404). Here, the insufficient battery capacity means that a
      remaining charge capacity of a battery is less than a reference level. The reference
      level may be set to be the same or different for devices. The processor 210 of the
      electronic device 110 may request the at least one wearable device 120 to provide in
      formation regarding a remaining charge capacity of a battery thereof and receive this
      information so as to determine whether the at least one wearable device 120 has an in
      sufficient battery capacity.
[307]   When a device having an insufficient battery capacity is present (operation S3404), a
      device that will provide the notification (except for the device having an insufficient
      battery capacity) is determined according to various exemplary embodiments
      (operation S3406). For example, when the electronic device 110 has an insufficient
      battery capacity, a device that will provide the notification (except for the electronic
      device 110) is determined. As another example, a device that will provide the noti
      fication (except for the at least one wearable device 120 having an insufficient battery
      capacity) is determined.

[308]   When a device having an insufficient battery capacity is not present (operation
      S3404), a device that will provide the notification is selected from among the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 (operation S3410).
[309]   When a device that will provide the notification is determined, this device is
      requested to provide the notification (operation S3408)
[310]   FIG. 35 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[311]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs
      (operation S3502), the processor 210 determines whether the at least one wearable
      device 120 capable of communicating with the electronic device 110 is present
      (operation S3504). The processor 210 of the electronic device 110 may detect a com
      munication state between the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable
      device 120 to determine whether the at least one wearable device 120 capable of com
      municating with the electronic device 110 is present.
[312]   When the at least one wearable device 120 is capable of communicating with the
      electronic device 110 (operation S3504), a device that will provide the notification is
      selected among the at least one wearable device 120 capable of communicating with
      the electronic device 110 according to various exemplary embodiments (operation
      S3506) and is requested to provide the notification (operation S3508).
[313]   When the at least one wearable device 120 capable of communicating with the
      electronic device 110 is not present (operation S3504), the electronic device 110
      provides the notification (operation S3510).
[314]   FIG. 36 is a diagram illustrating a structure for explaining a process of considering a
      communication state between devices according to an exemplary embodiment.
[315]   While an electronic device 110 operates such that it may communicate with first to
      third wearable devices 120-1, 120-2. and 120-3, the electronic device 110 may not be
      capable of communicating with at least one of the first to third wearable devices 120-1,
      120-2, and 120-3 for example, in a case in which the second wearable device 120-2 is
      powered off, in a case in which the third wearable device 120-3 is distant from the
      electronic device 110, or in a case in which the third wearable device 120-3 or the
      electronic device 110 cancels a communication between the third wearable device
      120-3 and the electronic device 110. According to the current exemplary embodiment,
      when a notification event occurs, first, a communication state between the electronic
      device 110 and the first to third wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3 may be
      checked, thereby preventing a notification request from being not transmitted or de
      termining of a device, which will provide the notification, from being delayed, caused
      when the communication state is not considered.
[316]   FIG. 37 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an

      exemplary embodiment.
[317]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs
      (operation S3702), the type of the notification event is determined (operation S3704)
      and it is determined whether a predetermined device that will provide a notification of
      the notification event is present (operation S3706). For example, it may be determined
      beforehand that a notification of a phone call should be provided by the electronic
      device 110 and a smart watch.
[318]   When the predetermined device that will provide the notification of the notification
      event is present (operation S3706), the predetermined device is requested to provide
      the notification (operation S3712).
[319]   When the predetermined device that will provide a notification of the notification
      event is not present (operation S3706), a device that will provide the notification is de
      termined based on set priorities according to various exemplary embodiments
      (operation S3708) and is requested to provide the notification (operation S3710).
[320]   In one exemplary embodiment, an order of notification of the plurality of wearable
      devices and the electronic device may be set. The plurality of wearable devices and the
      electronic device may then be sent notifications based on the order of notification. The
      order of notification may be determined based on status information of the electronic
      device or the plurality of wearable devices. The order of notification may also be de
      termined based on and based on the type of notification.
[321]   FIG. 38 is a table illustrating a device that is predetermined to provide a notification
      according to the type of a notification event according to an exemplary embodiment.
[322]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, a device that will provide a noti
      fication is predetermined according to the type of a notification event and stored in a
      storage unit (not shown). For example, a notification of a phone call may be provided
      to the electronic device 110 and a smart watch. When communication between a
      device and the electronic device 110 is disconnected, a notification indicating the type
      of the device may be provided to the electronic device 110. When a device has an in
      sufficient battery capacity, a notification indicating this fact may be provided to the
      electronic device 110 and the device having the insufficient battery capacity.
[323]   When a notification event occurs, the exemplary embodiments of FIGS. 32, 33, 34,
      35, and 37 may be performed before determining the above-described criteria, i.e.,
      whether a wearable device is in the wearing state, whether a device that is in use is
      present, whether a recognizable device is present, etc.
[324]   According to one exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs, the
      processor 210 may determine whether there is a device that is predetermined to
      provide a notification according to the type of the notification event according to the
      exemplary embodiment of FIG. 37, determine whether a wearable device that is able to

      communicate with the electronic device 110 according to the exemplary embodiment
      of FIG. 35, determine whether there is a device that is in the do-not-disturb mode
      according to the exemplary embodiment of FIG. 32 or 33, and determine whether there
      is a device having an insufficient battery capacity according to the exemplary em
      bodiment of FIG. 34. The above determinations are performed according to the
      priorities described above but all of the criteria need not be applied and various com
      binations thereof may be used according to an exemplary embodiment. According to
      the current exemplary embodiment, first, it is determined whether a device that is pre
      determined to provide a notification according to the type of a notification event is
      present, thereby minimizing process load on the determination of a device that will
      provide the notification.
[325]   According to another exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs, the
      processor 210 may determine whether a wearable device that is able to communicate
      with the electronic device 110 is present according to the exemplary embodiment of
      FIG. 35, determine whether there is a device predetermined to provide a notification
      based on the type of the notification event according to the exemplary embodiment of
      FIG. 37, determine whether there is a device that is in the do-not-disturb mode
      according to the exemplary embodiment of FIG. 32 or 33, and determine whether there
      is a device having an insufficient battery capacity according to the exemplary em
      bodiment of FIG. 34. The above determinations are performed according to the
      priorities described above but all of the criteria need not be applied and various com
      binations thereof may be used according to an exemplary embodiment. According to
      the current exemplary embodiment, a time delay caused by a communication failure
      may be minimized.
[326]   In addition, the exemplary embodiments of FIGS. 32, 33, 34, 35, and 37 may be
      applied in various orders.
[327]   FIG. 39 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[328]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, a notification event is detected
      (operation S3902), the states of the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable
      device 120 are detected (operation S3904), and a device that will provide a notification
      and a form of the notification are determined (operation S3906). According to the
      current exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 determines a device that will
      provide the notification and a form of the notification based on the states of the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120.
[329]   Since the form of the notification is also considered based on the states of the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120, a probability that a user
      will immediately check the notification may be increase and interruptions that may be

      caused to the user may be minimized.
[330]   When the device that will provide the notification and the form of the notification are
      determined, the device that will provide the notification is requested to provide the no
      tification (operation S3908).
[331]   FIG. 40 is a flowchart of a method of determining a form of a notification according
      to an exemplary embodiment.
[332]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a form of a notification is set
      for the electronic device 110 or the at least one wearable device 120, the notification is
      provided in the set form. According to one exemplary embodiment, the form of the no
      tification may vary according to the type of an event.
[333]   When a form of the notification is set for a device determined to provide the noti
      fication (operation S4002), the processor 210 requests the device to provide the noti
      fication in the set form (,operation S4004). When a form of the notification is not set
      for a device determined to provide the notification (operation S4002), the processor
      210 determines a form of the notification based on a predetermined criterion (operation
      S4006) and requests the device determined to provide the notification to provide the
      notification in the form (operation S4008).
[334]   For example, the predetermined criterion for determining the form of the notification
      includes determining the form of the notification according to the type of the noti
      fication event, providing the notification in a form that is set as a default, etc.
[335]   FIG. 41 is a flowchart of a method of setting a form of a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[336]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, a form of a notification may be set
      for all of the wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 connected to the electronic device 110
      to establish communication with the electronic device 110 (operation S4102). For
      example, the electronic device 110 may set a sound notification as the form of the noti
      fication of the smart glasses 120-1 and turn off the notification of the smart watch
       120-2 according to user input as illustrated in FIG. 41.
[337]   When the electronic device 110 sets a form of the notification of at least one
      wearable device among the wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 (operation S4102), the
      electronic device 110 informs the at least one wearable device of the set form of the
      notification (operation S4104). For example, when the electronic device 110 does not
      change the form of the notification of the smart glasses 120-1 and changes the form of
      the notification of the smart watch 120-2, a control signal for setting the form of the
      notification may be transmitted to the smart watch 120-2 for which the form of the no
      tification is changed. The at least one wearable device 120-1 or 120-2 that receives the
      control signal from the electronic device 110 may set the form of the notification
      thereof according to the control signal (operations S4106 and S4108).

[338]   FIG. 42 is a flowchart of a method of setting a form of a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[339]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, each of the at least one wearable
      device 120 may set a form of a notification thereof. According to one exemplary em
      bodiment, when each of the at least one wearable device 120 sets a form of a noti
      fication thereof (operation S4202), each of the at least one wearable device 120 may
      inform the electronic device 110 of the form of the notification thereof (operation
      S4204). For example, when a user sets a form of the notification of the smart watch
       120 as a vibration notification (operation S4202), the smart watch 120 informs the
      electronic device 110 of this fact (operation S4204). When the electronic device 110
      receives the information that the form of the notification of the smart watch 120s is set
      as the vibration notification from the smart watch 120, the electronic device 110 stores
      and manages the information (operation S4206).
[340]   FIG. 43 is a flowchart of a method of determining a form of a notification according
      to an exemplary embodiment.
[341]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a device that will provide a
      notification is determined, the processor 210 determines whether the device is in a
      situation that is not appropriate for providing a sound notification (operation S4302).
      Here, the situation that is not appropriate for providing a sound notification means a
      situation in which a user is not likely to recognize the sound notification due to sur
      rounding noise or that is interrupted by the sound notification. The situation that is in
      terrupted by the sound notification may include, for example, when a user is attending
      a lecture or is in a movie theater, etc.
[342]   According to one exemplary embodiment, information for determining whether the
      device is in a situation that is not appropriate for providing the sound notification may
      be obtained by a device capable of obtaining this information among the electronic
      device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120. For example, in order to obtain
      the information whether the user is attending a lecture or is in a movie theater, smart
      glasses may capture an image by using a camera, the processor 210 of the electronic
      device 110 or the smart glasses may recognize a current situation based on the image
      captured by the smart glasses, and the processor 210 may determine that both the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 are in the situation that
      is not appropriate for providing the sound notification when the user is attending a
      lecture.
[343]   When the device is not in the situation that is not appropriate for providing the sound
      notification (operation S4302), the processor 210 determines a form of the notification.,
      including the sound notification (operation S4304). When the device is in the situation
      that is not appropriate for providing the sound notification (operation S4302), the

      processor 210 determines a form of the notification excluding the sound notification
      (operation S4306).
[344]   FIG. 44 is a table illustrating a list of cases in which a sound notification is not ap
      propriate according to an exemplary embodiment.
[345]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 may determine a
      case in which a noise level is equal to or greater than a reference level, a case in which
      a user is attending a lecture, a case in which a user is in a movie theater, etc., as
      situations in which a sound notification is not appropriate. The processor 210 may
      receive noise via a microphone included in the electronic device 110 or the wearable
      device 120 and determine whether the level of the noise is equal to or greater than a
      reference level. Whether a user is attending a lecture or is in a move theater may be de
      termined based on an image captured by a camera included in smart glasses.
[346]   FIG. 45 is a table illustrating examples of a predetermined device that will provide a
      notification and a predetermined form of the notification according to an exemplary
      embodiment.
[347]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the processor 210 may determine a device
      that will provide a notification and a form of the notification based on predetermined
      criteria. FIG. 45 illustrates examples of predetermined criteria for a device that will
      provide a notification of a notification event except for a phone call and a form of the
      notification when the smart watch 120 and the electronic device 110 are used together.
[348]   When pressure having a reference level or more is detected by a pressure sensor
      included in a housing of the electronic device 110 or the wearable device 120 and the
      electronic device 110 or the wearable device 120 is neither on a table nor in a pocket or
      a bag, it may be determined that the electronic device 110 or the wearable device 120
      is held with a user's hand.
[349]   When acceleration perpendicular to a direction of gravity is detected and a motion is
      not detected, the electronic device 110 or the wearable device 120 may be determined
      that it is on a table.
[350]   FIG. 46 is a table illustrating examples of predetermined criteria for a device that will
      provide a notification of a notification event that communication between the smart
      watch 120 and the electronic device 110 is disconnected and a form of the notification
      when the smart watch 120 and the electronic device 110 are used together, according
      to an exemplary embodiment
[351]   FIG. 47 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[352]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a plurality of devices provide
      a notification (operation S4702) and the notification is checked in one of the plurality
      of devices (operation S4704), the device transmits information indicating that the noti-

      fication is checked to the other devices (operation S4706) and cancels the notification
      in the other devices (operation S4708). According to the current exemplary em
      bodiment, the notification may be prevented from being continued unnecessarily.
[353]   FIG. 48 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[354]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a plurality of devices 110,
      120-1, and 120-2 provide a notification and the notification is checked in a device
      among them, the device informs the other devices that the notification is checked and
      the electronic device 110 requests the other devices to cancel the notification. For
      example, when the notification is provided to the electronic device 110, the first
      wearable device 120-1, and the second wearable device 120-2 and is checked in the
      second wearable device 120-2 (operation S4802), the second wearable device 120-2
      informs the electronic device 110 that the notification is checked (operation S4804).
      When the electronic device 110 receives the information indicating the notification is
      checked from the second wearable device 120-2 (operation S4804), it is determined
      whether the notification is provided to another device except for the second wearable
      device 120-2 and the electronic device 110. When the notification is provided to
      another device, the device is requested to cancel the notification (operation S4806).
      Referring to FIG. 48, the electronic device 110 requests the first wearable device 120-1
      to cancel the notification (operation S4806). Then., the notification is canceled in the
      first wearable device 120-1 and the electronic device 110 (operations S4808 and
      S4810).
[355]   In one exemplary embodiment, once a notification is received, acknowledged or seen
      by a user at one device from among the plurality of wearable devices and electronic
      device, the notification may be removed from one or more of the remaining devices
      from among the plurality of wearable devices and electronic device.
[356]   FIG. 49 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[357]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a plurality of devices 110,
      120-1, and 120-2 provide a notification and the notification is checked in a device
      among them, the device informs the other devices or another device to which the noti
      fication is provided of the fact that the notification is checked. For example, when the
      notification is provided to the electronic device 110, the first wearable device 120-1,
      and the second wearable device 120-2 and is checked in the second wearable device
      120-2 (operation S4902), the second wearable device 120-2 informs the electronic
      device 110 and the first wearable device 120-1 of the fact that the notification is
      checked (operation S4904). Then, the electronic device 110 and the first wearable
      device 120-1 receive this information from the second wearable device 120-2, and

      cancel the notification (operations S4906 and S4908).
[358]   FIG. 50 is a diagram illustrating a method of determining a device that provides a no
      tification according to an exemplary embodiment;
[359]    According to the current exemplary embodiment, an electronic device 110 de
      termines either a device that will provide a notification or a form of the notification re
      gardless of a device in which a notification event occurs. In this case, information
      regarding the states of the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3 is transmitted to
      the electronic device 110 and the electronic device 110 may determine a device that
      will provide a notification or a form of the notification based on the information
      regarding the states of the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3.
[360]   FIG. 51 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
      fication according to an exemplary embodiment.
[361]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, a notification event may occur in
      the electronic device 110 or the wearable device 120 (operations S5102 and S5104).
      When the notification event occurs in the wearable device 120 (operation S5104), the
      at least one wearable device 120 informs the electronic device 110 of the notification
      event (operation S5106). The electronic device 110 obtains information regarding the
      state of the wearable device 120 periodically or at a point of time when the occurrence
      of the notification event is infored (operation S5108).
[362]    When the electronic device 110 obtains the information regarding the states of the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120, the electronic device
       110 may determine a device that will provide a notification according to one of the
      previous exemplary embodiments (operation S5 110). If it is determined that the
      wearable device 120 will provide the notification, the electronic device 110 requests
      the wearable device 120 to provide the notification (operation S5112). Then, the
      electronic device 110 and/or the wearable device 120 provide the notification
      (operations S5114 and S5116).
[363]   FIG. 52 is a flowchart of a method of determining a device that will provide a noti
      fication according to an exemplary embodiment. FIG. 52 illustrates a detailed example
      of the exemplary embodiment of FIG. 51.
[364]    According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a heart rate increases and a
      notification event thus occurs while the wearable device 120 monitors the heart rate
      (operation S5202), the wearable device 120 informs the electronic device 110 of the
      notification event regarding an increase in the heart rate (operation S5204). When the
      electronic device 110 receives the information regarding the event from the wearable
      device 120, the electronic device 110 determines a device that will provide a noti
      fication and a form of the notification (operation S5206). For example, the electronic
      device 110 determines the notification to be provided by itself by turning on a screen,

      using a sound notification, or displaying a message. Then, the electronic device 110
      provides the notification in the determined form (operation S5208).
[365]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110 may additionally
      inform the wearable device 120 (in which the notification event occurs) that another
      device will provide the notification.
[366]   FIG. 53 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[367]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the at least one wearable device
      120 provides information regarding a state thereof to the electronic device 110 re
      gardless of whether a notification event occurs, and the electronic device 110 de
      termines a device that will provide a notification when a notification event occurs,
      based on the information regarding the state of the at least one wearable device 120
      that the electronic device 110 receives and stores.
[368]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the at least one wearable device 120 may
      periodically detect information regarding the state thereof (operations S5302 and
      S5306), and transmit the information to the electronic device 110 (operations S5304
      and S5308). For example, the information regarding the state of the at least one
      wearable device 120 may include information regarding whether a locking structure of
      the at least one wearable device 120 is fastened, information regarding motion
      detection, a bio-signal, etc.
[369]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110 may periodically
      request the at least one wearable device 120 to provide information regarding the state
      thereof, and the at least one wearable device 120 may transmit the information
      regarding the state thereof to the electronic device 110 whenever the electronic device
       110 requests this information.
[370]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the at least one wearable device 120
      may transmit the information regarding the state thereof to the electronic device 110 in
      a predetermined cycle even when the electronic device 110 does not request this in
      formation. In this case, when communication is established between the electronic
      device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120, the electronic device 110
      transmits to the at least one wearable device 120 information regarding a cycle in
      which the information regarding the state of the at least one wearable device 120 is
      transmitted, and the at least one wearable device 120 may transmit the information
      regarding the state thereof in the cycle set by the electronic device 110.
[371]   According to another exemplary embodiment, when the at least one wearable device
       120 detects a change in the information regarding the state thereof (operations S5302
      and S5306), the at least one wearable device 120 may transmit information regarding
      the state thereof or a change value in the information regarding the state to the

      electronic device 110 (operations S5304 and S5308). According to the current
      exemplary embodiment, when communication is established between the electronic
      device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120, information regarding a current
      state of the at least one wearable device 120 may be transmitted to the electronic
      device 110 and be then transmitted to the electronic device 110 whenever the state of
      the at least one wearable device 120 changes.
[372]   According to one exemplary embodiment, when a degree of a change in the in
      formation regarding the state of the at least one wearable device 120 is equal to or
      greater than a reference value, the at least one wearable device 120 may transmit in
      formation regarding the state thereof to the electronic device 110. For example, the at
      least one wearable device 120 may transmit information regarding a heart rate to the
      electronic device 110 only when a degree of a change in the information regarding the
      heart rate is 10% or more.
[373]   When the electronic device 110 receives the information regarding the state of the at
      least one wearable device 120 according to one of the previous exemplary em
      bodiments, the electronic device 110 stores this information. When a notification event
      is detected (operation S5310), the electronic device 110 obtains the stored information
      (operation S5312) and determines a device that will provide a notification or a form of
      the notification (operation S5314). In exemplary embodiments, information regarding
      a state of the electronic device 110 may be detected periodically or when a notification
      event is detected.
[374]    When it is determined that the at least one wearable device 120 will provide the noti
      fication (operation 85316), the electronic device 110 requests the at least one wearable
      device 120 to provide the notification (operation 85316). When the at least one
      wearable device 120 receives a notification request, the at least one wearable device
       120 provides the notification (operation S5320). When it is determined that the
      electronic device 110 will provide the notification, the electronic device 110 provides
      the notification (operation S5318).
[375]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs, a
      device that will provide a notification may be determined directly without collecting
      state information notification, thereby minimizing a delay in transmitting the noti
      fication.
[376]   FIG. 54 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[377]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event is
      detected, information regarding states of the electronic device 110 and the at least one
      wearable device 120 is detected and shared.
[378]   When a notification event is detected (operation S5402), the electronic device 110

      requests the at least one wearable device 120 to provide information regarding the state
      thereof (operation S5404). When the at least one wearable device 120 receives the
      request for the information regarding the state from the electronic device 110, the at
      least one wearable device 120 detects the state thereof (operation S5408) and transmit
      information regarding the state to the electronic device 110 (operation S5410). When
      the notification event is detected (operation S5402), the electronic device 110 detects
      information regarding the state thereof (operation S5406).
[379]   When the information regarding the states of the electronic device 110 and the at
      least one wearable device 120 is obtained, the electronic device determines a device
      that will provide a notification and a form of the notification based on this information
      (operation S5412).
[380]   When it is determined that the at least one wearable device 120 will provide the noti
      fication, the electronic device 110 requests the at least one wearable device 120 to
      provide the notification (operation S5414). When the at least one wearable device 120
      receives a notification request, the at least one wearable device 120 provides the noti
      fication (operation S5418). When it is determined that the electronic device 110 will
      provide the notification, the electronic device 110 provides the notification (operation
      S5416).
[381]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the states of the electronic device
       110 and the at least one wearable device 120 are detected only when a notification
      event is detected, thereby minimizing load when the states are detected.
[382]   FIG. 55 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[383]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, a device in which a notification
      event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification. Referring to FIG. 55,
      a case in which a notification event occurs in the wearable device 120 while the
      electronic device 110 and the wearable device 120 operate such that communication
      can be established therebetween will be described below.
[384]   When a notification event occurs in the wearable device 120 (operation S5502), the
      wearable device 120 determines a device that will provide the notification based on in
      formation regarding the states of the electronic device 110 and the wearable device 120
      (operation S5506). A point of time when the information regarding the states of the
      electronic device 110 and the wearable device 120 is obtained (operation S5504) may
      vary according to an exemplary embodiment.
[385]   When it is determined that the electronic device 110 or another wearable device will
      provides a notification, the wearable device 120 requests the electronic device 110 or
      the other wearable device to provide the notification (operation S5508). When the
      electronic device 110 receives a notification request, the electronic device 110 provides

      the notification (operation S5510). When it is determined that the wearable device 120
      will provides the notification, the wearable device 120 provides the notification
      (operation S5512).
[386]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, it is possible to reduce load on the
      electronic device 110 and load caused when communication is established between
      devices.
[387]   FIG. 56 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment. FIG. 56 illustrates a detailed example of the exemplary em
      bodiment of FIG. 55.
[388]   When a notification event that an increase in a heart rate should be informed occurs
      while the wearable device 120 monitors the heart rate (operation S5602), the wearable
      device 120 in which the notification event occurs determines a device that will provide
      a notification, based on the states of the electronic device 110 and the at least one
      wearable device 120 (operation S5604). When it is determined that the electronic
      device 110 will provide a notification (operation S5604), the at least one wearable
      device 120 transmits a notification request to the electronic device 110 (operation
      S5606).
[389]   When the electronic device 110 receives the notification request, the electronic
      device 110 provides a notification regarding the increase in the heart rate, based on the
      contents of the notification request (operation S5608). For example, when the noti
      fication request indicates turning on a screen, outputting sound, and displaying a
      message indicating the increase in the heart rate as a form of the notification, sound is
      output and the message is displayed as illustrated in FIG. 56.
[390]   FIG. 57 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[391]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110 and at
      least one wearable device, e.g., the first and second wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2,
      share information regarding the states thereof regardless of whether a notification
      event occurs, and a device in which a notification event occurs determines a device
      that will provide a notification. FIG. 57 illustrates a case in which the notification
      event occurs in the first wearable device 120-1.
[392]   The electronic device 110, the first wearable device 120-1, and the second wearable
      device 120-2 detect the states thereof (operations S5702. S5706, and S5710), and
      broadcast information regarding the states thereof to one another (operations S5704,
      S5708, and S5712).
[393]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the information regarding the states of the
      devices may be periodically detected and broadcast. According to one exemplary em
      bodiment, the information regarding the states of the devices may also be sequentially

      detected and broadcast in a predetermined order. For example, the information
      regarding the states of the devices may be sequentially detected and transmitted in the
      order of the first wearable device 120-1, the electronic device 110, and the second
      wearable device 120-2.
[394]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the detecting and broadcasting of the
      information regarding the states thereof may be performed after a change in this in
      formation is detected. For example, when a change in an attached/detached state of the
      first wearable device 120-1 is detected, information regarding the wearing/not-wearing
      state (e.g., state information indicating whether the device is attached to a user) of the
      first wearable device 120-1 may be broadcast to the electronic device 110 and the
      second wearable device 120-2. As another example, when a degree of a change in a
      heart rate detected by the second wearable device 120-2 is a reference level or more,
      information regarding the heart rate detected by the second wearable device 120-2 may
      be broadcast to the electronic device 110 and the first wearable device 120-1.
[395]   When a notification event is detected in one of the electronic device 110 and the first
      and second wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 (operation S5714), the device in which
      the notification event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification
      (operation S5716). If the notification event occurs in the first wearable device 120-1
      (operation S5714), the first wearable device 120-1 determines a device that will
      provide the notification (operation S5716).
[396]   If it is determined that a device except for the device in which the notification event
      occurs determines a device that will provide the notification, the device in which the
      notification event occurs transmits a notification request to the device that will provide
      the notification (operations S5718 and S5720). When the electronic device 110 or the
      second wearable device 120-2 receives the notification request, the electronic device
       110 or the second wearable device 120-2 provides the notification (operations S5722
      and S5726). If it is determined that the first wearable device 120-1 will provide the no
      tification, the first wearable device 120-1 provides the notification (operation S5724).
[397]   FIG. 58 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[398]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event is
      detected, the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 detect and
      share information regarding the states thereof, and a device in which the notification
      event occurs determines a device that will provide a notification. FIG. 58 illustrates a
      case in which the notification event occurs in the first wearable device 120-1.
[399]   When the notification event is detected by one of the electronic device 110 and the
      first and second wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 (operation S5802), the device that
      detects the notification event requests the other devices to provide information

      regarding the states thereof (operation S5804). If the notification events occurs in the
      first wearable device 120-1 (operation S5802), the first wearable device 120-1 requests
      the electronic device 110 and the second wearable device 120-2 to provide the in
      formation regarding the states thereof (operations S5804 and S5806).
[400]   A device that receives the request to provide the information regarding the state
      thereof detects the state thereof (operations S5808 and S5812), and transmits in
      formation regarding the states thereof to the device in which the notification event
      occurs (operations S5812 and S5814). The device in which the notification event
      occurs detects the state thereof (operation S58 10).
[401]   When the first wearable device 120-1 in which the notification event is detected
      obtains the information regarding the states of the electronic device 110 and the second
      wearable device 120-2, the first wearable device 120-1 determines a device that will
      provide a notification, based on the states of the electronic device 110, the first
      wearable device 120-1, and the second wearable device 120-2 (operation S5816).
[402]   When it is determined that at least one device (except for the device in which the no
      tification event occurs) will provide the notification, the device in which the noti
      fication event occurs transmits a notification request to the at least one device that will
      provide the notification (operations S5818, S5820 and S5822). When the electronic
      device 110 or the second wearable device 120-2 receives the notification request, the
      electronic device 110 or the second wearable device 120-2 provides the notification
      (operations 85824 and S5828). When it is determined that the first wearable device
       120-1 will provide the notification, the first wearable device 120-1 provides the noti
      fication (operation S5826).
[403]   FIG. 59 is a flowchart of a method of setting a form of a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[404]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, an electronic device 110 may set a
      form of notification of all of wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 connected to the
      electronic device 110 such that communication may be established therebetween. After
      the form of the notification is set, the electronic device 110 may transmit information
      regarding the form of the notification to all of the wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2.
[405]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110 may set a
      form of notification of each of the wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 connected to the
      electronic device 110 such that communication may be established therebetween
      (operation S5902). For example, the electronic device 110 may set a form of the noti
      fication of the smart glasses 120-1 as a sound notification and turn off the notification
      of the smart watch 120-2 according to user input as illustrated in FIG. 59.
[406]   When the electronic device 110 sets the form of the notification of at least one among
      the wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 (operation S5902), the electronic device 110

      transmits information regarding the form of the notification to all of the wearable
      devices 120-1 and 120-2 (operation S5904). For example, when the electronic device
       110 does not change the form of the notification of the smart glasses 120-1 and
      changes the form of the notification of the smart watch 120-2, the electronic device
       110 transmits information regarding the form of the notification of the smart watch
       120-2 to the smart watch 120-1 and the smart watch 120-2. According to one
      exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110 may transmit a control signal for
      setting the form of the notification to a device for which the form of the notification is
      changed.
[407]   Next, a device that receives the information regarding the form of the notification
      stores this information (operations S5906 and 85908). When the information regarding
      the form of the notification is information regarding the form of the notification of the
      device, the fonn of the notification of the device is set based on the information
      regarding the form of the notification. For example, when the electronic device 110
      changes and sets the form of the notification of the smart watch 120-2, information
      regarding the form of the notification of the smart watch 120-2 is transmitted to the
      smart glasses 120-1 and the smart watch 120-2. The smart watch 120-2 may also
      change the form of the notification thereof, based on the information regarding the
      form of the notification or according to the control signal for setting the form of the no
      tification which is transmitted from the electronic device 110 (operation S5908).
[408]   FIG. 60 is a flowchart of a method of setting a form of a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[409]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, each wearable device may set a
      form of a notification thereof and broadcast information regarding the set form of the
      notification to the electronic device 110 and other wearable devices.
[410]   For example, when the second wearable device 120-2 sets a form of the notification
      thereof (operation S6002), the second wearable device 120-2 broadcasts information
      regarding the set form of the notification to the electronic device 110 and the other
      wearable device 120-1 (operation S6004). For example, when a user sets a form of the
      notification of the smart watch 120-2 as a vibration notification (operation S6002), the
      smart watch 120-2 transmits information indicating that the form of the notification
      thereof is set as the vibration notification to the smart glasses 120-1 and the electronic
      device 110 (operation S6004). When the smart glasses 120-1 receive from the smart
      watch 120-2 the information indicating that the form of the notification of the smart
      watch 120-2 is set as the vibration notification, the smart glasses 120-1 store and
      manage this information (operation S6006). The electronic device 110 receives from
      the smart watch 120-2 the information indicating that the form of the notification of the
      smart watch 120-2 is set as the vibration notification, the electronic device 110 stores

      and manages this information (operation S6008).
[411]   FIG. 61 is a block diagram of a server 6110, an electronic device 110, and at least
      one wearable device, e.g., first and second wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2
      according to an exemplary embodiment.
[412]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, when a notification event occurs in
      the electronic device 110 and the first and second wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2,
      the server 6110 may determine a device that will provide a notification, based on the
      states of the electronic device 110 and the first and second wearable devices 120-1 and
       120-2.
[413]   The server 6110 may communicate with the electronic device 110 and the first and
      second wearable devices 120-1 and 120-2 via a predetermined network.
[414]   FIG. 62 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[415]   When a notification event is detected in a device among an electronic device 110 and
      at least one wearable device 120 (operation S6202), a device in which the notification
      event occurs informs a server 6110 of the notification event (operation S6204). When
      the server 6110 is informed of the notification event, the server 6110 requests the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 to provide information
      regarding the states thereof (operation S6206). When the electronic device 110 and the
      at least one wearable device 120 receive the request for the information regarding the
      states thereof, they detect the states thereof (operations S6208 and S6210) and transmit
      information regarding the states thereof to the server 6110 (operations S6212 and
      S6214).
[416]   When the server 6110 receives the information regarding the states of the electronic
      device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120, the server 6110 determines a
      device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification, based on this in
      formation (operation S6216).
[417]   When the device that will provide the notification and the form of the notification are
      determined (operation S6216), the server 6110 transmits a notification request to the
      device that will provide the notification (operation S6218). A device that receives the
      notification request among the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable
      device 120 provides the notification (operations S6220 and S6222).
[418]   FIG. 63 is a flowchart of a method of providing a notification according to an
      exemplary embodiment.
[419]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, an electronic device 110 and at
      least one wearable device 120 transmit information regarding the states thereof to a
      server 6110 regardless of whether a notification event occurs, and the server 6110 de
      termines a device that will provide a notification based on the information regarding

      the states of the devices, which the server 6110 receives and stores, when a notification
      event occurs. FIG. 63 illustrates a case in which a notification event occurs in the
      electronic device 110.
[420]   The electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 detect the states
      thereof (operations S6302 and S6306), and transit information regarding the states
      thereof to the server 6110 (operations S6304 and S6308).
[421]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the information regarding the states of the
      electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 may be periodically
      detected and transmitted. According to one exemplary embodiment, the information
      regarding the states of the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device
       120 may be sequentially detected and transmitted in a predetermined order.
[422]   According to another exemplary embodiment, the information regarding the states of
      the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 may be detected and
      transmitted when a change in this information is detected. For example, when a change
      in a wearing/not-wearing state of the at least one wearable device 120 is detected, in
      formation regarding the attached/detached state of the at least one wearable device 120
      may be transmitted to the server 6110.
[423]   When a notification event is detected in a device among the electronic device 110
      and the at least one wearable device 120 (operation S6310), a device in which the noti
      fication event occurs informs the server 6110 of the notification event. When the noti
      fication event occurs in the electronic device 110 (operation S63 10), the electronic
      device 110 informs the server 6110 of the notification event (operation S6312).
[424]   When the server 6110 is informed of the notification event, the server 6110 de
      termines a device that will provide a notification and a form of the notification, based
      on the information regarding the states of the electronic device 110 and the at least one
      wearable device 120 (operation S6314).
[425]   When the device that will provide the notification and the form of the notification are
      determined (operation S6314), the server 6110 transmits a notification request to the
      device that will provide the notification (operation S6316). A device that receives the
      notification request among the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable
      device 120 provides the notification (operations S6318 and S6320).
[426]   FIG. 64 is a diagram illustrating a communication manner according to an exemplary
      embodiment.
[427]   According to exemplary embodiments, an electronic device 110 and at least one
      wearable device ( e.g., wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3) exchange signals
      (e.g., a notification of a notification event, a request for information regarding a device
      state, information regarding a device state, a notification request, etc.) with one
      another. The exchange of the signals may be performed between the communication

      unit 230 of the electronic device 110 (see FIG. 2) and the communication unit 630 of
      each of the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3. Communication may be es
      tablished between the electronic device 110 and the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2,
      and 120-3 according to communication standards employed to establish commu
      nication between devices.
[428]   According to one exemplary embodiment, communication may be established
      between the electronic device 110 and the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3
      via the electronic device 110. According to the current exemplary embodiment, the
      wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3 may establish communication with another
      wearable device via the electronic device 110. For example, when the electronic device
      110 and the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3 communicate with one another
      based on a BLE communication mode, the electronic device 110 may act as a master
      and the wearable devices 120-1,120-2., and 120-3 may act as slaves.
[429]   According to one exemplary embodiment, when the electronic device 110 is in a
      non-communicable state, a device among the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and
      120-3 may act as a master in place of the electronic device 110.
[430]   FIG. 65 is a diagram illustrating a communication manner according to an exemplary
      embodiment.
[431]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, an electronic device 110 and at
      least one wearable device, e.g., wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3, may
      directly communicate with each other. According to the current exemplary em
      bodiment, the electronic device 110 and the wearable devices 120-1, 120-2, and 120-3
      may communicate with one another according to the same communication manner.
[432]   FIG. 66 is a diagram illustrating a communication manner according to an exemplary
      embodiment.
[433]   According to the current exemplary embodiment, an electronic device 110 and at
      least one wearable device, e.g., wearable devices 120-1, 120-2. and 120-3, may com
      municate with only some devices. For example, the current exemplary embodiment
      may apply to a case in which devices employ different communication manners, a case
      in which direct communication cannot be established due to a distance or the like, a
      case in which devices have insufficient available resources for communicating with
      another device, etc.
[434]   FIG. 67 is a flowchart of a method of transmitting a signal according to an exemplary
      embodiment.
[435]   If the operating systems or protocols of an electronic device 110 and at least one
      wearable device 120 are different, when a signal is transmitted between the electronic
      device 110 and at least one wearable device 120, the form of the signal may be
      transformed according to the operating system of a device that will receive the signal

      and then the transformed signal may be transmitted to the device. For example, when
      the electronic device 110 and the at least one wearable device 120 have different
      operating systems, the electronic device 110 may generate a signal such as a request
      for state information, a notification request, etc. (operation S6702), and transform the
      form of the signal based on the operating system or protocol of the at least one
      wearable device 120 (operation S6704). The electronic device 110 transmits the
      transformed signal to the at least one wearable device 120 (operation S6706). The at
      least one wearable device 120 may receive the transformed signal from the electronic
      device 110 and transform this signal (operation S6708).
[436]   The signal may include a signal such as a notification of a notification event, a
      request for state information, a notification request, etc. The signal may include data
      such as a document, a photograph, music, video, etc.
[437]   FIG. 68 is a block diagram of structures of an electronic device 110 and a wearable
      device 120 according to an exemplary embodiment.
[438]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the transforming of the signal (operation
      S6704 or S6708) may be performed using an application 6820 installed in the
      electronic device 110 and/or an application 6840 installed in the wearable device 120.
[439]   In the electronic device 110, a notification manager 6812, included in an operating
      system 6810, controls an operation of determining a device that will provide a noti
      fication and/or a form of the notification and providing the notification according to
      one of the previous exemplary embodiments. The notification manager 6812 generates
      a control signal related to the notification and transmits a notification request to the ap
      plication 6820 to the application 6820 via an application programming interface (API)
      6814. The application 6820 transforms the form of the control signal transmitted via
      the API 6814 according to the operating system or protocol of the at least one wearable
      device 120. The application 6820 transmits the transformed control signal to a commu
      nication unit 630 of the wearable device 120 via the communication unit 230.
[440]   The at least one wearable device 120 receives the transformed control signal via the
      communication unit 630 and transmits it to the application 6840. The application 6840
      transforms the transformed control signal and transmits a result of transforming the
      transformed control signal to an API 6834 when the transformed control signal needs
      to be transformed, and directly transmit the transformed control signal to the API 6834
      when the transformed control signal need not be transformed.
[441]   The API 6834 transmits the received control signal to a notification manager 6832
      included in an operating system 6830 of the wearable device 120. The notification
      manager 6832 controls an operation related to the notification according to the
      received control signal.
[442]   Similarly, a control signal related to the notification is transmitted from the wearable

      device 120 to the electronic device 110 via a notification manager 6821, the API 6834,
      the application 6840, and the communication unit 630. The electronic device 110
      receives the control signal related to the notification, which is received via the commu
      nication unit 230, from the notification manager 6812 via the application 6820 and the
      API 6814 and performs an operation related to the notification.
[443]   According to one exemplary embodiment, the electronic device 110 and the wearable
      device 120 may share predetermined criteria (e.g., the predetermined criteria of FIG.
      45 or 46) for the form of the notification or set values related to the notification when
      communication is first established between the electronic device 110 and the wearable
      device 120 or when the wearable device 120 is first registered with the electronic
      device 110. For example, the electronic device 110 may transmit the predetermined
      criteria of FIG. 45 or 46 to the wearable device 120 when communication is first es
      tablished between the electronic device 110 and the wearable device 120. The noti
      fication manager 6812 of the electronic device 110 and the notification manager 6812
      of the at least one wearable device 120 may manage and store the shared information
      related to the notification.
[444]   FIG. 69 is a block diagram of a structure of an electronic device I 10c or a wearable
      device 120c according to an exemplary embodiment. The structure of the electronic
      device 1 10c or the wearable device 120c illustrated in FIG. 69 may apply to all of the
      electronic device 1 Oa of FIG. 2, the electronic device 110b of FIG. 20, and the
      wearable device 120a of FIG. 6, and the wearable device 120b of FIG. 21.
[445]   As illustrated in FIG. 69, the structure of the electronic device 1 10c or the at least
      one wearable device 120c may apply to various devices, e.g., a mobile phone, a tablet
      PC, a personal digital assistant (PDA), an MP3 player, a kiosk, an electronic picture
      frame, a navigation device, a digital TV, or a wearable device such as a wrist watch or
      a head-mounted display (HMD).
[446]   Referring to FIG. 69, the electronic device 1 10c or the at least one wearable device
       120c may include at least one among a display unit 6910, a controller 6970, a memory
      6920, a GPS chip 6925, a communication unit 6930, a video processor 6935, an audio
      processor 6940, a user input unit 6945, a microphone unit 6950, an imaging unit 6955,
      a speaker unit 6960, and a motion sensor 6965.
[447]   The display unit 6910 may include a display panel 6911 and a controller (not shown)
      for controlling the display panel 6911. The display panel 6911 may be embodied as
      any of various types of displays such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), an organic
      light-emitting diode (OLED) display, an active matrix OLED (AM-OLED), a plasma
      display panel (PDP). The display panel 6911 may be embodied as a flexible,
      transparent, or wearable display panel. The display unit 6910 may be combined with a
      touch panel 6947 of the user input unit 6945 to be provided as a touch screen (not

      shown). For example, the touch screen may include an integral type module in which
      the display panel 6911 and the touch panel 6947 are combined in an integrated
      structure.
[448]   The memory 6920 may include at least one among an internal memory (not shown)
      and an external memory (not shown).
[449]   The internal memory may include, for example, at least one among a volatile
      memory (e.g., a dynamic random access memory (DRAM), a static RAM (SRAM), a
      synchronous DRAM (SDRAM), etc.), a nonvolatile memory (e.g., a one-time pro
      grammable ROM (OTPROM), a programmable ROM (PROM), an erasable and pro
      grammable ROM (EPROM), an electrically erasable and programmable ROM
      (EEPROM), a mask ROM, a Flash ROM, etc.), a hard disc drive (HDD), and a solid
      state drive (SSD). According to an exemplary embodiment, the controller 6970 may
      load a command or data received from at least one among a nonvolatile memory and
      other elements to a volatile memory and process the command or data. The controller
      6970 may store data, which is received from or generated by another element, in a non
      volatile memory.
[450]   The external memory may include, for example, at least one among a compact flash
      (CF), a secure digital (SD), a micro-secure digital (micro-SD), a mini-SD, an extreme
      digital (xD) and a memory stick.
[451]   The memory 6920 may store various programs and data for operating the electronic
      device I 10c and the wearable device 120c. For example, the memory 6920 may tem
      porarily or semi-permanently store at least a part of contents to be displayed on a lock
      screen.
[452]   The controller 6970 may control the display unit 6910 to display at least a part of the
      contents stored in the memory 6920 on the display unit 6910. In other words, the
      controller 6970 may display some of the contents stored in the memory 6920 on the
      display unit 6910. Otherwise, when a user makes a gesture on a region of the display
      unit 6910, the controller 6970 may perform a control operation corresponding to the
      user's gesture.
[453]   The controller 6970 may include at least one among a RAM 6971, a read-only
      memory (ROM) 6972, a central processing unit (CPU) 6973, a graphic processing unit
      (GPU) 6974, and a bus 6975. The RAM 6971, the ROM 6972, the CPU 6973, and the
      GPU 6974 may be connected via the bus 6975.
[454]   The CPU 6973 accesses the memory 6920 and boots the system using an operating
      system (OS) stored in the memory 6920. The CPU 6973 performs various operations
      using various programs, contents, data, and the like stored in the memory 6920.
[455]   Command sets for booting the system are stored in the ROM 6972. For example,
      when a turn-on command is input to the electronic device I 10c and the wearable

      device 120c to supply power to the electronic device 1 10c and the wearable device
       120c, the CPU 6973 copies the OS stored in the memory 6920 to the RAM 6971
      according to a command stored in the ROM 6972, and runs the OS to boot the system.
      When the booting of the system is completed, the CPU 6973 copies the various
      programs stored in the memory 6920 to the RAM 6971 and runs the various programs
      copied to the RAM 6971 to perform various operations. When booting of the electronic
      device 110c and the at least one wearable device 120c is completed, the GPU 6974
      displays a user interface (UI) screen on a region of the display unit 6910. Specifically,
      the GPU 6974 may create a screen including an electronic document including various
      objects such as contents, icons, menus, etc. The GPU 6974 calculates attribute values,
      such as the coordinates, shape, size, and colors of each object, according to the layout
      of a screen. The GPU 6974 may also create screens including various layouts including
      objects, based on the calculated attribute values. The screens created by the GPU 6974
      may be provided to the display unit 6910 and displayed in regions of the display unit
      6910, respectively.
[456]   The GPS chip 6925 may receive a global positioning system (GPS) signal from a
      GPS satellite, and calculate current positions of the electronic device 1 10c and the
      wearable device 120c. The controller 6970 may calculate the position of a user using
      the GPS chip 6925 when a navigation program is used or when the current position of
      a user is needed.
[457]   The communication unit 6930 may communicate with various external devices
      according to various communication manners. The communication unit 6930 may
      include at least one among a WiFi chip 6931, a Bluetooth chip 6932, a mobile commu
      nication chip 6933, and an NFC chip 6934. The controller 6970 may communicate
      with various external devices via the communication unit 6930.
[458]   The WiFi chip 6931 and the Bluetooth chip 6932 may establish communication
      according to a WiFi manner and a Bluetooth manner, respectively. When the WiFi
      chip 6931 or the Bluetooth chip 6932 is used, various connection information, such as
      subsystem identification (SSID) and a session key, may first be transmitted/received.
      Communication may be established using the various connection information, and then
      various other information may be transmitted/received. The mobile communication
      chip 6933 means a chip that establishes communication according to various commu
      nication standards such as IEEE, Zigbee, 3G, 3G partnership project (3GPP), long
      term evolution (LTE), etc. The NFC chip 6934 is a chip that operates according to an
      NFC method using a frequency of 13.56 MHz among various RF-ID frequencies, e.g.,
       135 kHz, 13.56 MHz, 433 MHz, 860 to 960 MHz, and 2.45 GHz.
[459]   The video processor 6935 may process video data contained in contents received via
      the communication unit 6930 or contents stored in the memory 6920. The video

      processor 6935 may perform various image processing, such as decoding, scaling,
      noise filtering, frame rate conversion, resolution conversion, etc. on video data.
[460]   The audio processor 6940 may process audio data contained in contents received via
      the communication unit 6930 or contents stored in the memory 6920. The audio
      processor 6940 may perform various processing, such as decoding, amplification,
      noise filtering, etc., on the audio data.
[461]   When a reproduction program related to multimedia contents is run, the controller
      6970, the video processor 6935 and the audio processor 6940 may be driven to
      reproduce the multimedia contents. The speaker unit 6960 may output audio data
      produced by the audio processor 6940.
[462]   The user input unit 6945 may receive various commands from a user. The user input
      unit 6945 may include at least one among a key 6946, a touch panel 6947, and a pen
      recognition panel 6948.
[463]   The key 6946 may include various types of keys (e.g., mechanical buttons, wheels,
      etc.) formed in various regions (e.g., a front, side, rear surfaces) of the exterior of a
      main body of each of the electronic device 69 1Oc and the wearable device 120c .
[464]   The touch panel 6947 may sense a user's touch input and output a touch event value
      corresponding to a sensed touch signal. When the touch panel 6947 is combined with
      the display panel 6911 to form a touch screen (not shown), the touch screen may be
      embodied as various touch sensors such as an electrostatic touch sensor, a pressure
      sensitive touch sensor, and a piezoelectric touch sensor. The electrostatic touch sensor
      calculates the coordinates of a touched point by sensing micro-electricity that occurs
      on a user's body by using a dielectric coated on a surface of a touch screen when a
      surface of a touch screen is touched by a part of the user's body. The pressure-sensitive
      touch sensor includes two electrode plates included in a touch screen, and calculates
      the coordinates of a touched point by sensing electric current flows when a user
      touches the touch screen and the upper and lower plates contact on the touched point.
      In general, a touch event may be generated on the touch screen mainly by a user's
      finger but may be also generated using a conductive material that may cause a change
      in an electrostatic capacitance.
[465]   The pen recognition panel 6948 may sense a proximity input or a touch input that is
      input with a user's touch pen (e.g., a stylus pen or a digitizer pen), and output a sensed
      pen proximity event or a pen touch event. The pen recognition panel 6948 may be
      embodied, for example, according to an EMR method, and may sense a touch or
      proximity input according to a change in the intensity of an electromagnetic field,
      caused when a pen approaches a touch screen or when the touch screen is touched by
      the pen. In detail, the pen recognition panel 6948 may include an electromagnetic
      induction coil sensor (not shown) having a grid structure, and an electronic signal

      processor (not shown) that sequentially supplies an alternate current (AC) signal
      having a predetermined frequency to loop coils of the electromagnetic induction coil
      sensor. When a pen including a resonant circuit is located near the loop coil of the pen
      recognition panel 6948, a magnetic field transmitted from the loop coil generates
      electric current in the resonant circuit in the pen, based on mutual electromagnetic
      induction. An induction field is generated from a coil of the resonant circuit in the pen,
      based on the electric current. The pen recognition panel 6948 may sense a point that a
      pen approaches or that is touched with the pen by detecting the induction field in the
      loop coils that is ready to receive a signal. The pen recognition panel 6948 may be
      prepared to occupy a predetermined region of the bottom of the display panel 6911,
      e.g., a region covering a display region of the display panel 6911.
[466]   The microphone unit 6950 may receive a user's voice or other sound and transform it
      into audio data. The controller 6970 may use the user's voice input via the microphone
      unit 6950 to perform a call operation, or transform the user's voice into audio data and
      store the audio data in the memory 6920.
[467]   The imaging unit 6955 may capture a still image or video under control of a user.
      The imaging unit 6955 may be embodied as, for example, a front camera and a rear
      camera.
[468]   When the imaging unit 6955 and the microphone unit 6950 are prepared, the
      controller 6970 may perform a control operation according to a user's voice input via
      the microphone unit 6950 or the user's motion recognized by the imaging unit 6955.
      For example, the electronic device 1 10c and the wearable device 120c may operate in a
      motion-controlled mode or a voice-controlled mode. When the imaging unit 6955 and
      the microphone unit 6950 operate in the motion-controlled mode, the controller 6970
      may activate the imaging unit 6955 to photograph a user, trace a change in the user's
      motion, and perform a control operation corresponding to the change in the user's
      motion. When the imaging unit 6955 and the microphone unit 6950 operate in the
      voice-controlled mode, the controller 6970 may analyze a user's voice input via the
      microphone unit 6950, and operate in a voice recognition mode in which a control
      operation is performed according to the analyzed user's voice.
[469]   The motion sensor 6965 may sense motions of the main bodies of the electronic
      device 1 10c and the at least one wearable device 120c. The electronic device I 10c and
      the at least one wearable device 120c may be rotated or tilted in various directions. In
      this case, the motion sensor 6965 may sense the features of motions of the main bodies
      of the electronic device 1 10c and the at least one wearable device 120c, such as a
      direction and angle of rotation, an inclination, etc., by using at least one among various
      sensors such as a geomagnetic sensor, a gyrosensor, and an acceleration sensor.
[470]   In addition, although not shown, in the exemplary embodiment of FIG. 69, the

      electronic device 110c and the at least one wearable device 120c may further include a
      universal serial bus (USB) port to which a USB connector may be connected, various
      external input ports to which various external terminals (such as a headset, a mouse, a
      local area network (LAN)) are connected, a DMB chip that receives and processes a
      digital multimedia broadcasting (DMB) signal, various sensors, etc.
[471]   The terms of the elements of the electronic device 1 10c and the at least one wearable
      device 120c described above may, however, be changed. The electronic device 1 10c
      and the at least one wearable device 120c may each include at least one among the
      elements described above or may further include other elements.
[472]   The controller 6970 of FIG. 69 may correspond to the processor 210 of the electronic
      device 10a or 110b or the processor 610 of the wearable device 120a or 120b. The
      communication unit 6930 of FIG. 69 may correspond to the communication unit 230
      of the electronic device 1 10a or 110b or the communication unit 630 of the wearable
      device 120a or 120b. The display unit 6910 and the speaker unit 6960 of FIG. 69 may
      correspond to the notification providing unit 220 of the electronic device 1 10a or 110b
      or the notification providing unit 620 of the wearable device 120a or 120b. The touch
      panel 6947, the microphone 6950, the imaging unit 6955, and the motion sensor 6965
      of FIG. 69 may correspond to the sensor unit 2010 of the electronic device 110b and
      the sensor unit 2110 of the wearable device 120b.
[473]   As described above, according to the one or more of the above exemplary em
      bodiments, a notification that a user is not likely to check may be prevented from being
      provided.
[474]   According to one or more exemplary embodiments, a probability that a user will im
      mediately check a notification may increase.
[475]   According to one or more exemplary embodiments, a notification may be provided
      such that a user is not interrupted by the notification.
[476]   According to one or more exemplary embodiments, a notification may be provided to
      a wearable device in an appropriate form when an electronic device and the wearable
      device operate while communicating with each other.
[477]   It should be understood that the exemplary embodiments described therein should be
      considered in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Descriptions
      of features or aspects within each exemplary embodiment should typically be
      considered as available for other similar features or aspects in other exemplary em
      bodiments.
[478]   While one or more exemplary embodiments have been described with reference to
      the figures, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various
      changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and
      scope of the exemplary embodiments as defined by the following claims.

                                        59
                                    Claims
[Claim 1] An electronic device comprising:
          a transceiver; and
          a processor configured to:
          control to receive, through the transceiver from an external device, status
          information indicating that the external device is being in use
          in response to an event being occurred at the electronic device, control to
          determine whether to send a notification request corresponding to the event to the
          external device based on the status information received by the transceiver
          indicating that the external device is being in use; and
          in response to determining to send the notification to the external device based on
          the status information indicating that the external device is being in use, control to
          send, through the transceiver, the notification request to the external device,
          wherein the notification from the electronic device is not provided at the external
          device based on a setting at the external device.
[Claim 2] The electronic device of claim 1, wherein when a screen of the external device is
          turned on by a user, the notification which was skipped is provided on the
          external device.
[Claim 3] The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to
          determine whether the electronic device and the external device is in use, and
          based on determining that the electronic device is not in use and the external
          device is being in use, control the transceiver to send the notification to the
          external device
[Claim 4] The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the notification request is configured to
          control the external device to display information related to the event.
[Claim 5] The electronic device of claim 1, wherein based on determining that the external
          device is in use, information related to the event is displayed on a display of the
          external device.
[Claim 6] The electronic device of claim 5, further comprising a memory configured to store
          the content of the skipped notification.
[Claim 7] The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the transceiver is further configured to
          receive the status information from a plurality of external devices, and the
          processor is further configured to, in response to occurrence of the event at the
          electronic device, determine at least one external device to be provided with the
          notification request among the plurality of the external devices except for a

                                         60
           external device in a do-not-disturb mode, based on the status information received
           from the plurality of external devices.
[Claim 8]  The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to
           set a form of a notification of the external device according to a user input.
[Claim 9]  The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to
           provide information related to the form of a notification of the external device to
           the external device
[Claim 10] The electronic device of claim 1, wherein based on setting a form of a notification
           of the external device as a turn off mode, the notification on the external device is
           skipped.
[Claim 11] The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to
           determine that the external device is being in use if a screen of the external device
           is turned on.
[Claim 12] A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable
           storage medium having instructions which control an electronic device to:
           control to receive from an external device status information indicating that the
           external device is being in use
           in response to an event being occurred at the electronic device, control to
           determine whether to send a notification request corresponding to the event to the
           external device based on the status information received from the external device
           indicating that the external device is being in use; and
           in response to determining to send the notification to the external device based on
           the status information indicating that the external device is being in use, control to
           send the notification request to the external device,
           wherein the notification from the electronic device is not provided at the external
           device based on a setting at the external device.

                                                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721>
                                                                                       <U+261B><U+261B><U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D> <U+270E>
                                 <U+270F><U+2711><U+261E>
                                                                                   <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2715>
<removed-apn>                                                                            <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2717><U+2721>
                                                     <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C>
                                                 <U+2718>
                          <U+2722><U+2723><U+271A><U+271B>                          <U+2722><U+2723><U+2723><U+271B>
                                           <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+2729><U+2725><U+272D>
                                          <U+272E><U+272F><U+2725><U+2730><U+2727><U+2731><U+2727><U+272D><U+2732> <U+2733><U+272D><U+2734><U+2735>
                  <U+272E><U+272F><U+2725><U+272A><U+2736><U+2737><U+2737><U+2725><U+2738>
                                                        <U+2739><U+2723><U+273A><U+271B>                       <U+2739><U+271A><U+2723><U+271B>
                                          <U+272A><U+2725><U+273B><U+273B><U+273C><U+272D><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+2729><U+2725><U+272D>                     <U+273D><U+2736><U+272B><U+2738><U+272B><U+273E><U+273F><U+2736>
                                                 <U+273C><U+272D><U+2729><U+2726>                        <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2729><U+272A><U+2736>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2743><U+2721>
               <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A>          <U+2744><U+274B><U+2745><U+2749> <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+2749><U+274A> <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2747><U+25C6><U+25BC><U+2756><U+2747><U+2745> <U+274D>P <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2746><U+25D7><U+25CF><U+2745> |<U+2745><U+2759><U+275A><U+2745> <U+2751><U+25B2> P<U+2746><U+25B2><U+276F><U+2745><U+2749><U+2745>|<U+2771>
               <U+25B2><U+276F><U+2746><U+25BC><U+2745>            <U+2746><U+2749>| <U+2747><U+2745>P<U+2745><U+2747><U+2745><U+2749><U+2745> <U+25BC><U+2748><U+2772><U+2745> <U+274D><U+2747> <U+2773><U+2745><U+25B2><U+25B2> <U+2768><U+2746><U+25B2><U+25B2><U+2745><U+25B2> <U+2746>P<U+276F><U+2745><U+2747> <U+2769><U+274D><U+25BC><U+2751><U+274D><U+2749> <U+274D>P
                                <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2746><U+25D7><U+25CF><U+2745> |<U+2745><U+2759><U+2751><U+2745> <U+2751><U+25B2> |<U+2745><U+276C><U+2745><U+276C><U+2745>|
                                <U+2744><U+274B><U+276D><U+2749> <U+2747><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2747><U+276D><U+2749><U+276B> <U+2774><U+2751><U+2769><U+276D> <U+274D><U+2775> <U+275B><U+276D><U+25B2><U+25B2> <U+275C><U+2746><U+25B2><U+25B2><U+276D><U+25B2> <U+2746><U+276A><U+2774><U+276D><U+2775>
                                <U+25D7><U+2751><U+274D><U+275D><U+25B2><U+2748><U+275E><U+2749><U+2746><U+2773> <U+2748><U+25B2> |<U+2745><U+25BC><U+2745><U+25BC><U+2745>| <U+2748><U+2749> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2746><U+25D7><U+25CF><U+2745> |<U+2745><U+2761><U+2748><U+2745>
                                <U+2744><U+274B><U+2745><U+2749> <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+2751><U+2749><U+274A> <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+2747><U+25C6><U+25BC><U+2756><U+2747><U+2745> <U+274D>P <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2747><U+2746><U+25D7><U+25CF><U+2745> |<U+2745><U+2759><U+275A><U+2745> <U+2751><U+25B2> P<U+2746><U+25B2><U+276F><U+2745><U+2749><U+2745>|
                                <U+2746><U+2749>| <U+25D7><U+2751><U+274D><U+2762><U+25B2><U+2751><U+274A><U+2749><U+2746><U+25CF> <U+275A><U+25B2> <U+2763><U+2745><U+25BC><U+2745><U+2764><U+2745>| <U+2751><U+2749> <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746><U+2775><U+2710><U+25D7><U+25CF><U+2745> |<U+2745><U+2759><U+2751><U+2745>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2765><U+2721>
                                           <U+2723><U+2723><U+271B>
                         <U+2730><U+2727><U+2766><U+272F><U+2767><U+2726><U+2727><U+2725><U+272D> <U+2733><U+272D><U+2727><U+2726>              <U+2660><U+2719><U+271B>
                            <U+2737><U+272E><U+2736><U+2767><U+2665><U+2741><U+2738>                  <U+2660><U+2723><U+271B>
                          <U+2666><U+2729><U+2737><U+272E><U+2663>q <U+2733><U+2724><U+2727><U+2726>                <U+2660><U+273A><U+271B>
                              r<U+2736><U+2666>                    <U+2660><U+2660><U+271B>

                                                                      <U+2768><U+2769><U+276C><U+276D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D>
                                         <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
                         <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+261B><U+261E>                <U+2711><U+2712><U+2720>
                      <U+2713><U+261B><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D><U+270D><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2719><U+271A><U+261E>             <U+2711><U+271E><U+2720>
                         <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2714><U+261B><U+261E>                <U+2723><U+271F><U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2724><U+2725> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2714><U+2726><U+261E>                <U+2711><U+2727><U+2720>
                     <U+270C><U+270D><U+2721><U+2605><U+271A><U+261E> <U+2722><U+270D><U+270C><U+270C><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+2722><U+272C><U+2716><U+272B><U+270D><U+271B>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2711><U+2720>
                           <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+2714><U+272D><U+272E>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+272F><U+271D>
                                                  <U+2712><U+271E><U+2720><U+2730>
                          <U+2731><U+2732><U+2712><U+2720>                      <U+2731><U+2732><U+271E><U+2720>
                                            <U+2733><U+2724><U+270D><U+2722><U+272E><U+2734><U+2734><U+270D><U+2724>
                 <U+2735><U+2726><U+2735><U+2722><U+2736><U+2724><U+270D><U+272A><U+272B><U+2722>
                     <U+270E><U+261E><U+2737><U+2605><U+2722><U+272E>                         <U+2738><U+2732><U+271F><U+2720>                         <U+2738><U+2712><U+276A><U+2720>
                                            <U+271B><U+270D><U+2717><U+2739><U+273A><U+2605><U+2722><U+272C><U+2716><U+2605><U+270D><U+271B>             <U+2722><U+270D><U+276B><U+270C><U+2774><U+272A><U+272B><U+2722><U+272C><U+2717><U+272B><U+270D><U+272A>
                                         <U+2733><U+2724><U+270D><U+273B><U+272B><U+270E><U+272B><U+272A><U+273C> <U+2719><U+272A><U+2605><U+2716>                   <U+2774><U+272A><U+272B><U+2717>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+273D><U+271D>
                                         <U+273E><U+2717><U+272C><U+2724><U+2716>
                         <U+270D><U+2721><U+2742><U+272C><U+2605><U+271B> <U+2739><U+2743><U+2744><U+270D><U+2724><U+270C><U+272C><U+2745><U+2739><U+270D><U+2743> <U+2605><U+2743><U+270E><U+2605><U+2722><U+272C><U+2742><U+2605><U+272A><U+2746> <U+2747><U+2718><U+2748><U+2742><U+2718><U+2748><U+2724>
              <U+273F><U+2740><U+2720><U+2741>
                           <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+2724><U+2749><U+2721><U+274A><U+2715> <U+274B><U+2715><U+25CF><U+2605><U+274D><U+2715> <U+2605><U+273E> <U+2747><U+270D><U+2724><U+272A> <U+2721> <U+2749> <U+274F><U+273E><U+2715><U+2724>
                                                               <U+2756>P
                                                                                            <U+2751><U+2775><U+25BC><U+275B>
                          <U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A>|<U+273E><U+276F> <U+2747>|<U+272C><U+25D7><U+272C><U+2771><U+2772>| <U+2773>|<U+273B><U+2605><U+274D>| <U+272B><U+272A> <U+2747>|<U+2749><U+25D7><U+272B><U+272A><U+2746>        <U+2715><U+261B>|<U+274D><U+276F><U+2724><U+270D><U+2743><U+2605><U+2722> <U+270E>|<U+273B><U+2605><U+2722>| <U+2733><U+275C><U+270D><U+273B><U+2605><U+2773>|
              <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6>
                              <U+273E><U+2717><U+272C><U+2717><U+2715> <U+2716><U+270D> <U+2733><U+2724><U+270D><U+2737><U+2605><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2743><U+270D><U+2716><U+2605><U+273A><U+2605><U+274D><U+272C><U+2717><U+272B><U+270D><U+271B>                  <U+272A><U+270D><U+2717><U+2605><U+271C><U+2605><U+274D><U+272C><U+2716><U+2739><U+270D><U+272A>
                                            |<U+2743><U+2773>

                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                          <U+2746>   <U+2747>   <U+2746>
<removed-date>
                      <U+2702>
                  <U+2743>
                      <U+2701>
                                  <U+2744>
              <U+2742>                       <U+2745>
                              <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                      <U+2732>                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                          <U+2727>
                                                                          <U+2737>
                                          <U+2726>
                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+2735>
                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                      <U+2731>
                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+2724>
                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+270F>
                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2717>                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                          <U+2717>
                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                              <U+272C>       <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2712>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                      <U+273B>
                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                          <U+2713>
                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                  <U+270F>                                                           <U+271A>
                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                              <U+272E>
                                                          <U+2730>
                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>       <U+2719>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                          <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                          <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2723>
                                                              <U+2722>
                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                          <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+270F>
                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                              <U+270F>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                      <U+2721>       <U+2712>
                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+270E>       <U+2711>
                          <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2720>
                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                      <U+2702>
                      <U+2701>
                                      <U+260E>
                              <U+2704>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                            <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
       <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                                                                        <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2706><U+271D>
                                    <U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                                                          <U+272E><U+272F>
<removed-apn>
                                                          <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
                                                                                            <U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D>
                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2720><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+2714><U+2720><U+2715><U+2711><U+261E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2716><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+271A><U+271B><U+2721>              <U+2737><U+2721><U+2738><U+2725><U+2711><U+2716><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261E><U+2715><U+270E><U+2713><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+270D><U+2711><U+261E><U+270F>
                  <U+2719><U+2722><U+2723><U+2721><U+2720><U+270C><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2725><U+2711><U+2717><U+271B> <U+270E><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271E><U+270D><U+2720><U+2715><U+271B>                 <U+2715><U+261E> <U+2716><U+2722><U+2725><U+2711><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270F> <U+2739><U+271E><U+271B>
                                                          <U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
                                                                                           <U+273A><U+273B><U+273E><U+273E><U+273C>
                                                                  <U+2721><U+271B><U+273F><U+2740><U+2722><U+271E><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2722><U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+270C><U+2741><U+2722> <U+2716><U+271B><U+2742><U+2711><U+2717><U+2722>
                        <U+2726><U+2721><U+261E><U+2725><U+270E><U+2716><U+2722> <U+270F><U+261E><U+271F><U+2711><U+2727><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2605><U+2711><U+261E><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+2717><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718>
                                                                <U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271F><U+271B> <U+261B><U+261E> <U+2726><U+2721><U+2738><U+2725><U+2711><U+2716><U+2722>
                               <U+2729><U+261E> <U+271E><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2726><U+2721><U+270E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+270D><U+2711><U+271B><U+271E>
                                                                        <U+2712><U+261E><U+2743><U+2711><U+2744><U+270E><U+2717><U+2720><U+2745><U+2711><U+2738><U+2712>
                                     <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+272D><U+271D>
               <U+2711><U+270F> <U+2746><U+271E><U+2747>            <U+2719><U+271A><U+2748><U+270F> <U+2749><U+2739><U+271E><U+2711><U+2717> <U+2738><U+2721> <U+2742><U+2711><U+2716><U+2747><U+261E> <U+2711><U+271E> <U+270C><U+2748><U+270E><U+2712><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2747><U+274A><U+2721><U+2738><U+274B><U+2739><U+2717><U+2747><U+2716>
                                 <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2712> <U+2721><U+271B><U+2713><U+271B><U+2721><U+271B><U+2712><U+2717><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2749><U+271B> <U+2738><U+2721> <U+2741><U+271B><U+271E><U+271E> <U+25CF><U+2720><U+271E><U+271E><U+271B><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2713><U+271F><U+271B><U+2721> <U+274D><U+271E><U+271B><U+2721> <U+270E><U+2712><U+2726><U+2739><U+271F> <U+270E><U+271E> <U+2716><U+271B><U+261B><U+271B><U+2717><U+271F><U+271B><U+2716>
                                 <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+270F> <U+271E><U+2717><U+2721><U+271B><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2711><U+271E> <U+270C><U+271B><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2739><U+2716><U+2723><U+270D><U+271B><U+2716> <U+274F><U+2717><U+2717><U+2738><U+2721><U+2716><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2751><U+2738> <U+2739><U+271E><U+271B><U+2721> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2714><U+2749><U+2720><U+2712><U+2716>
                                 <U+271E><U+2717><U+2721><U+271B><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2711><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2739><U+2721><U+2712><U+2722><U+2716> <U+2738><U+270F>

                                                                 <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E>
                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                    <U+270D><U+270E>
               <U+270F><U+2711><U+2721><U+261B><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+270F><U+261E><U+2715><U+261B><U+270C><U+2716><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2717><U+2712><U+2718><U+261B><U+270C><U+2712><U+2713><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+271C><U+261E>
                  <U+271A><U+271C><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+2711><U+2723><U+271C> <U+2724><U+271C><U+2725><U+2716><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2720> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2726> <U+2727><U+2720><U+271C><U+261E>
                                                    <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E>
                                                                                    <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737>
                                                          <U+261E><U+271C><U+2738><U+2739><U+271C><U+2720><U+2721> <U+271A><U+271C><U+261B><U+273A><U+273B><U+2711><U+2723><U+271C> <U+272B><U+271C><U+273C><U+2712><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2713>
                                                          <U+271A><U+271C><U+261B><U+261E><U+2712><U+2713><U+2719> <U+2720><U+273D><U+261B><U+273E><U+271C> <U+273E><U+270F> <U+2605><U+261E><U+270F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2717><U+271C>
                                                                 <U+2713><U+270F><U+2721><U+2716><U+2714><U+2712><U+2718><U+261B><U+2721><U+2712><U+270F><U+2713>
                                                    <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E>
                                                                                    <U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2740><U+2741>
                  <U+2605><U+261E><U+270F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2724><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2721><U+2712><U+2729><U+272A><U+2718><U+261B><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2718><U+2718><U+270F><U+261E><U+272B><U+2716><U+2713><U+2719>             <U+2605><U+261E><U+270F><U+2725><U+2712><U+2717><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270F><U+2721><U+2716><U+2729><U+2716><U+2718><U+261B><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F><U+2713>
                         <U+2721><U+270F> <U+2720><U+271C><U+270C> <U+2605><U+261E><U+2712><U+270F><U+261E><U+2712><U+270C><U+2712><U+271C><U+2720>                     <U+2721><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271C><U+273C><U+2712><U+2718><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2713> <U+273F><U+2720><U+271C>
                               <U+271C><U+2713><U+272B>

                                                                    <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2725>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                              <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720>
                                                   <U+271C><U+2722>
                                                                                    <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C>
                                                        <U+272D><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2720><U+2713><U+272E><U+272F><U+2715><U+2721><U+2720><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2715><U+270C><U+261B><U+270F><U+2713><U+2712><U+2717>
                                                               <U+2720><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2720> <U+272D><U+261B><U+270E><U+270C><U+261B><U+2713><U+2730><U+2713><U+2711><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                                   <U+2723><U+2724>
                                                                                    <U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+2735>
                  <U+261E><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2720><U+2713><U+2714><U+270E><U+2715><U+2721><U+2720><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712> <U+2720><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+2715><U+2711>
                                                             <U+272D><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+2713><U+270F><U+2731> <U+2712><U+270C><U+2720><U+272F><U+2732><U+2713><U+2715><U+2721><U+2720><U+270E><U+270C><U+2712>
                 <U+2721><U+2716><U+270C><U+2712><U+2717> <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+270E><U+2715><U+2719><U+271F> <U+270E><U+2712> <U+271A><U+271F><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2715><U+2715><U+270C><U+261B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2712><U+2717>
                                                               <U+2720><U+270C> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2733><U+2713><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+2734><U+271F><U+2719>
                         <U+2720><U+270C> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2720> <U+271B><U+261B><U+2713><U+270C><U+261B><U+2713><U+2720><U+2713><U+2719><U+271F>
                               <U+2711><U+2712><U+270F>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>   <U+276D>   <U+276A>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2716>
                  <U+2768>       <U+2715>                       <U+2718>
                                                              <U+2769>
              <U+2773>                                                   <U+271A>
                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274A>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>                                   <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273B>
                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>                                       <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>                               <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>                           <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                              <U+2716>
                              <U+2715>                       <U+2718>   <U+2719>
                      <U+2714>                                               <U+271A>
                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2706>   <U+271D>       <U+271E>   <U+271F>   <U+2720>   <U+2721>   <U+261B>   <U+261E>   <U+2706>   <U+270C>

                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
                          <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                                              <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+261B>
                                <U+270E><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2714>

                                                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                                 <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
                          <U+2711><U+2712><U+270C><U+270E>                     <U+2711><U+2712><U+270D><U+270E>
                                           <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2714><U+2713>
                                          <U+271B><U+271C><U+2714><U+2722><U+2716><U+2723><U+2724><U+2713><U+2725> <U+2726><U+2713><U+2724><U+2715>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2712><U+2727><U+270E>                           <U+270C><U+270C><U+2729>
                                                                              <U+2605>
                                          <U+2718><U+2714><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2730><U+2714><U+2713>              <U+2731><U+2732><U+2731><U+2718><U+2733><U+271C><U+2714><U+272F><U+2724><U+2718>
                  <U+272A><U+271C><U+2714><U+2718><U+272B><U+272C><U+272C><U+2714><U+271C>
                                              <U+272E><U+272F><U+2716><U+271A>                     <U+2723><U+272B><U+2734><U+2716><U+2718><U+272B>
<removed-apn>
                                                   <U+2735><U+270D><U+2736><U+270C><U+270E>
                                           <U+272C><U+2731><U+272F><U+272C><U+2714><U+2737> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2724><U+271A>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261E>
                                                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2738><U+2739> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2736><U+270E>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>           <U+2724><U+273A><U+273A><U+272E><U+272D><U+2730><U+2713><U+2719><U+273B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2713> <U+272C><U+272B><U+2713><U+272C><U+2714><U+271C>              <U+2715><U+2714><U+272E><U+2718><U+274F> <U+272C><U+2718><U+271C><U+2731><U+272B><U+2713>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+273C>                <U+273D><U+2716><U+2714><U+272C><U+2731><U+2713><U+272C><U+2714><U+271C>                        <U+2718><U+2719><U+272D><U+2731><U+271C><U+2719>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C><U+2768>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2712>            <U+2716><U+2713><U+2718><U+273E><U+2716><U+272F><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716><U+2714><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2731><U+272F><U+272C><U+2714><U+2737>           <U+2715><U+2731><U+272D><U+2751><U+272B><U+271C><U+2719><U+271A><U+25B2><U+271C><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272B><U+272F><U+272C><U+2714><U+271C>               <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+273F>        <U+271B><U+2714><U+272C><U+2724><U+271A><U+2724><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2731><U+271A><U+2731><U+2718><U+2715><U+2724><U+2714><U+2740> <U+272D><U+2714><U+2723><U+272E><U+273E><U+2731>          <U+2716><U+2713><U+25BC><U+271C><U+2719><U+271C><U+2731><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2731><U+2713><U+272C><U+2714><U+271C>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C><U+273F>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E>         <U+272A><U+271C><U+2714><U+2741><U+2716><U+272D><U+2716><U+271A><U+2742><U+2743><U+271A><U+2714><U+272E><U+2718><U+2744> <U+272C><U+272B><U+2713><U+272C><U+2714><U+271C>          <U+2719><U+2718><U+2718><U+2731><U+273E><U+272B><U+271C><U+2719><U+2715><U+2724><U+2714><U+272F> <U+272C><U+272B><U+2713><U+272C><U+2714><U+271C>              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2745><U+261E>
                                                                                   <U+2746><U+2756><U+2748><U+2749>
                                 <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>
                                                                                                   <U+274A><U+274B><U+2769><U+276C>
                                        <U+274A><U+274B><U+274A><U+274A>
                                                                                                   <U+274A><U+274B><U+274B><U+276C>
                                                            <U+2747><U+25C6><U+2746><U+2748>
                                                                                   P
                                                                                        <U+25D7>
                                                                                    |
                                                                                    <U+2759>
                                                                                    <U+275A>
                                                                                    <U+276F>
                                    <U+25CF><U+274D>                                             <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773>

                                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
                                                             <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
                                 <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
                          <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2713>
               <U+270F><U+2715><U+270F><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                                                <U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2713>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2717><U+261B>
                                               <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713><U+2718>
                                        <U+2714><U+2719><U+2714><U+2713>

                                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                         <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                                <U+2720><U+2713><U+271F><U+2721>
                                <U+2714><U+2715><U+2720><U+2713><U+2716><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+261E><U+271E>
                         <U+2720><U+270C><U+2720><U+2721>

                                                                     <U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+273E><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                        <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                                                <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                       <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>
                                                                                         <U+2741><U+2721><U+273B><U+261B><U+2742>
               <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2715><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271C><U+2724> <U+2725><U+2719><U+2726><U+2727> <U+2605><U+2717><U+2729><U+271B><U+2719><U+272A><U+2715>           <U+2717><U+2715><U+2734><U+2743><U+2715><U+2733><U+2739> <U+2717><U+2715><U+271C><U+2729><U+2744><U+272B><U+272E><U+2745><U+2746><U+2726><U+2747> <U+2714><U+2715><U+271B><U+2737><U+271C><U+2715>
               <U+272B><U+2729><U+272C><U+2719><U+272D><U+272E><U+271C><U+272F><U+2730><U+2719><U+2729><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2732><U+272F><U+2733><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2729><U+271A> <U+2733><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2605><U+2717><U+2719><U+2729><U+2717><U+272E><U+2730><U+2719><U+2715><U+2733>           <U+2716><U+2729> <U+2605><U+2717><U+2729><U+271B><U+2719><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272B><U+2729><U+2716><U+272E><U+2748><U+2737><U+271C><U+272F><U+272C><U+2719><U+2729><U+271A>
                                                  <U+273A><U+2721><U+273B><U+261B><U+273C>
                          <U+2717><U+2715><U+2734><U+2735><U+2715><U+2733><U+272C> <U+272A><U+2715><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2729>
                         <U+2605><U+2736><U+2729><U+271B><U+2737><U+272A><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2729><U+2738><U+2719><U+272D><U+272E><U+271C><U+272F><U+2739><U+272E><U+2729><U+271A>
                                 <U+2715><U+271A><U+272A>

                                                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+270D>   <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+271C><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723> <U+2719><U+270D><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2718><U+2713><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+2723><U+270D><U+270C><U+2605><U+2723> <U+2726><U+2715><U+2712><U+271B>
                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+271B><U+270D><U+271C><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723> <U+2719><U+270D><U+2724><U+271B> <U+2729><U+272A> <U+270E><U+2715><U+270C> <U+2726><U+270F><U+2717><U+271B><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2715><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2715><U+271C><U+2713><U+2711><U+2715><U+272B><U+2713><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2723> <U+271A><U+270F><U+272B> <U+270C><U+272C><U+271A>
                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+272D><U+272E><U+2723><U+2713><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270D><U+272F><U+271A><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2730><U+270C><U+270F><U+271B><U+272C><U+270E><U+270D><U+271B>
                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271A><U+2731><U+270D><U+270C><U+2723><U+2715><U+2732><U+2722><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+271A><U+271B><U+272C><U+270E><U+272B><U+270D><U+271B>
                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270D><U+270C><U+2733><U+2723> <U+270D><U+2734><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2735><U+2715><U+270E><U+2735> <U+2713><U+2723> <U+2736><U+270D><U+2737><U+270D><U+270E><U+2737><U+270D><U+2736>
                <U+271A><U+270F><U+2712><U+2738>           <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2723> <U+271B><U+270C><U+2713><U+2731><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711> <U+270E><U+2715><U+270C>
                <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2739><U+2712><U+2713><U+273A><U+2715><U+273B><U+2717><U+270D>
                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2722><U+2723> <U+270F><U+271A> <U+272D><U+270F><U+273C><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                               <U+2713><U+271A> <U+2735><U+2726><U+270D><U+2715><U+2735><U+270D><U+270C>
                               <U+2736><U+270F><U+273D><U+2712><U+270F><U+2735><U+273E><U+271B><U+272F><U+2723><U+273F><U+272E><U+270C><U+2729> <U+272D><U+270F><U+2736><U+270D><U+2740> <U+2715><U+2722><U+270C><U+2730><U+2741><U+271A><U+270D> <U+272D><U+270F><U+2736><U+270D>
                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2726><U+270F><U+271A><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2715><U+2742><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723> <U+2729><U+270D><U+2722><U+271A><U+2711> <U+272D><U+2715><U+271B><U+270D>
                               <U+2718><U+2719><U+270D><U+271A> <U+2736><U+270D><U+271C><U+2713><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2723> <U+2730><U+272C><U+2735> <U+2713><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2715><U+2711><U+2743><U+2730><U+270F><U+270E><U+2744><U+270D><U+2745>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2746><U+261E>
                                <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>

                                                                    <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                           <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2720>
                                              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D>
                 <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2713><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2718><U+2719><U+2718><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2716><U+271C><U+261B><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+2740><U+270E><U+273A>
                                                       <U+2726><U+2725><U+271B><U+2718><U+261B><U+2741><U+2713><U+271A><U+2718> <U+2726><U+2725><U+2719><U+2713><U+2716><U+2725> <U+271B><U+2742><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2743><U+2713><U+2744><U+272E>
                     <U+271F><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2713><U+2711><U+270F>
                                                          <U+2724><U+261B><U+2711><U+2745><U+2713><U+2726><U+272A> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2721><U+2729><U+2713><U+2711><U+270F>
                                                                                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2747><U+270E>
                                                           <U+261B><U+272A><U+2734><U+2746><U+2718><U+271F><U+2729> <U+2726><U+272A><U+2745><U+2713><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2711>
                                                          <U+2724><U+261B><U+2711><U+2719><U+2713><U+2726><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2721><U+2729><U+2713><U+2711><U+270F>
                            <U+2725><U+270F><U+2726>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2706><U+271E>
                            <U+271F><U+271B><U+2721><U+261B><U+271B>
                                              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270E><U+270D>
                  <U+271A><U+2711><U+2720><U+2723><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2715><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2727><U+2719><U+2727><U+271A><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2716><U+2605><U+261B><U+271F>
                                                                                 <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2747><U+270E>
              <U+2726><U+2718><U+2729><U+272A><U+261B><U+272B><U+2713><U+270F><U+272A> <U+2726><U+2718><U+2719><U+2713><U+2716><U+272A> <U+2720><U+272C><U+2721><U+2720> <U+272D><U+2715><U+272E><U+272E> <U+2724><U+261B><U+2711><U+2719><U+2713><U+2726><U+272A>
                                                            <U+2730><U+2718><U+2738><U+2725><U+261B><U+272B><U+2713><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2730><U+2718><U+2719><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718>
                <U+271A><U+2711><U+271B><U+2715><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2721><U+271B><U+2723><U+2711><U+271A> <U+2718><U+272F><U+2716><U+2725><U+2724><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2726><U+2718><U+2719><U+2715><U+2716><U+2718>
                                                      <U+271B><U+272C><U+2721><U+271B> <U+2743><U+2713><U+2748><U+2748> <U+2737><U+261B><U+2711><U+2719><U+2713><U+2726><U+2725> <U+271A><U+2711><U+271B><U+2715><U+2714><U+2713><U+2716><U+2721><U+2712><U+2713><U+2711><U+271A>
                   <U+2713><U+271A> <U+2730><U+2711><U+2731><U+271A><U+2711><U+2720><U+2731><U+2726><U+2715><U+271F><U+2720><U+2732><U+261B><U+2733> <U+272B><U+2711><U+2730><U+2718>
                                              <U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270E><U+273A>
                  <U+261B><U+272A><U+2734><U+2735><U+272A><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2730><U+272A><U+2736><U+2715><U+2716><U+272A> <U+2720><U+2711> <U+2737><U+261B><U+2711><U+2719><U+2713><U+2726><U+272A>
                         <U+271A><U+2711><U+2738><U+2715><U+2739><U+2723><U+2716><U+2721><U+271B><U+2713><U+2711><U+271A>
                             <U+2725><U+271A><U+2726>

                                                                        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                               <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
                  <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+271A><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2722><U+2724><U+270D> <U+2718><U+271B><U+271B><U+2725><U+270F><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726><U+2727><U+2715>
                  <U+2605><U+2722><U+270D><U+2722><U+270F><U+2729><U+2719><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2711><U+272A><U+270E><U+2711> <U+272B><U+271C><U+272C><U+272C>
                     <U+272D><U+270F><U+2718><U+272E><U+272F><U+2605><U+2722> <U+2724><U+2718><U+2730><U+271C><U+2731><U+271C><U+271B><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+2718><U+2724>               <U+2605><U+2722><U+2711><U+2722><U+270F><U+2729><U+2719><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+271B><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E><U+2711> <U+272B><U+2719><U+273A><U+273A>
                  <U+2732><U+2722><U+2733><U+271B><U+2722><U+2734><U+2711> <U+271A><U+2718><U+270F> <U+2605><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722> <U+272A><U+270E><U+272E><U+2719><U+2717><U+2735>                 <U+273B><U+270F><U+2718><U+272E><U+2719><U+2605><U+2722> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+273C><U+271C><U+271B><U+270E><U+2711><U+271C><U+2718><U+2717>
                    <U+272C><U+2718><U+272B> <U+2736><U+270E><U+2730><U+270D><U+2722><U+270F><U+2737> <U+271B><U+270E><U+272D><U+270E><U+271B><U+272F><U+2730><U+2737><U+2738>
                                               <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+273D>
                          <U+270F><U+2722><U+273E><U+273F><U+2722><U+270C><U+2711> <U+2605><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722>
                   <U+2711><U+2718> <U+273B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2719><U+2605><U+2722> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+2731><U+271C><U+271B><U+270E><U+2711><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
                               <U+2722><U+2724><U+2605>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2740><U+261E>
                                 <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                                  <U+2712><U+2713><U+2741><U+2715><U+2716>
                     <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+271A><U+271C><U+271B><U+270E><U+270D><U+271C><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2742><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2718><U+271B><U+271B><U+2743><U+270F><U+270C>
                                                       <U+2744><U+2745>
                                                                                           <U+2712><U+2713><U+2741><U+2727><U+2715>
                     <U+2605><U+2722><U+2711><U+2722><U+270F><U+2729><U+271C><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E><U+2711> <U+272B><U+2719><U+272C><U+272C>
                     <U+273B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2719><U+2605><U+2722> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2747><U+271C><U+2731><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+2748><U+272F><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270E><U+2729><U+2718><U+2724><U+2735>                     <U+2722><U+274D><U+2722><U+271B><U+2748><U+270F><U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2605><U+2722><U+272E><U+272F><U+271B><U+2722>
                    <U+2749><U+2722><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2736><U+273A><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2722><U+272E><U+271C><U+271B><U+2722><U+270C> <U+271B><U+270E><U+272D><U+270E><U+2736><U+273A><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271A>                   <U+273B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2719><U+2605><U+2722><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+271C><U+2731><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
               <U+271B><U+2718><U+2729><U+2729><U+274A><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+2711><U+2719><U+2717><U+2735> <U+2749><U+2719><U+2711><U+2739> <U+2722><U+274B><U+2722><U+271B><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718><U+2724><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2605><U+2722><U+272E><U+271C><U+271B><U+2722>
                                                  <U+2712><U+2713><U+2741><U+2715><U+273D>
               <U+270F><U+2722><U+273E><U+2725><U+25CF><U+270C><U+2711> <U+2605><U+2722><U+272E><U+272F><U+271B><U+25CF> <U+2711><U+2718> <U+272D><U+270F><U+2718><U+272E><U+271C><U+2605><U+2742> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+2731><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+2711><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
                                  <U+2722><U+2724><U+2605>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>

                                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                                    <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
                       <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+271A><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+271C><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2722><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2718><U+271B><U+271B><U+2724><U+270F><U+270C>
                                                    <U+2712><U+2713><U+2725><U+2715><U+2726>
                <U+2727><U+2722><U+2711><U+2722><U+270F><U+2605><U+2729><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2711><U+272A><U+272B><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+272C><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+2711><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2722><U+2717><U+2711>
<removed-apn>
                                               <U+2712><U+2713><U+272D><U+2715><U+272E>
                                                            <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>
                                                                                                 <U+2712><U+2713><U+2746><U+2740><U+2747>
                 <U+2727><U+2722><U+2711><U+2722><U+270F><U+2605><U+2729><U+2717><U+2722> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2732><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2733><U+2719><U+2734><U+2735> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2719><U+2727><U+2722>                  <U+270F><U+2748><U+273B><U+2724><U+2748><U+270C><U+2711> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2722><U+2727><U+2722><U+270D><U+2722><U+270F><U+2749><U+2719><U+2717><U+2722><U+2727>
                <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+2736><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+2711><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717><U+2737> <U+2738><U+270E><U+270C><U+2722><U+2727> <U+2718><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2739><U+2711> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2719><U+2718><U+270F><U+2719><U+270D><U+273A><U+2722><U+270C>             <U+2727><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722> <U+271C><U+2718> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2719><U+2727><U+2722> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+271A><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
                                                    <U+2712><U+2713><U+273F><U+2740><U+2715>
                       <U+270F><U+2722><U+273B><U+2724><U+2722><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2727><U+273C><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2718> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2719><U+2727><U+2722>
                           <U+2711><U+2732><U+2722> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+271A><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+271C><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
                                 <U+2722><U+2717><U+2727>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+273D><U+261E>
                                                                  <U+2741><U+274A><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+274A> <U+271C><U+2718> <U+2733><U+274B><U+2719><U+271B><U+25CF> <U+2717><U+2718><U+271C><U+2719><U+274D><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
                       <U+2711><U+272A><U+272B><U+2722> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2719><U+272C><U+2719><U+271B><U+270E><U+2711><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2723><U+2722><U+2717><U+273E>
                                                                       <U+273A><U+270C> <U+273E><U+2718> <U+2738><U+2722> <U+272B><U+270F><U+2718><U+2723><U+2719><U+2727><U+2722><U+2727>
                <U+271B><U+270E><U+2735><U+2734>                                         <U+2722><U+2734><U+2722><U+271B><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2723><U+2729><U+271B><U+2722> <U+270E><U+2717><U+2727> <U+270C><U+2749><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2733><U+270E><U+273E><U+271B><U+274F>
                <U+2741><U+2719><U+270C><U+271B><U+2718><U+2717><U+2717><U+2742><U+271B><U+271C><U+2742><U+2727> <U+2743><U+270F><U+2718><U+2605> <U+2742><U+2734><U+2742><U+271B><U+271C><U+270F><U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2727><U+2742><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2742>          <U+2742><U+2734><U+2742><U+271B><U+271C><U+270F><U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2727><U+2742><U+2723><U+2729><U+271B><U+2742>
                <U+2744><U+2718><U+2733> <U+2738><U+270E><U+270D><U+270D><U+2722><U+270F><U+272A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+272B><U+270E><U+271B><U+2719><U+2745>                          <U+2722><U+2751><U+2722><U+271B><U+2711><U+270F><U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2723><U+2729><U+271B><U+2722> <U+270E><U+2717><U+2727> <U+2727><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271B><U+2722>
                                                             <U+274B><U+270E><U+2723><U+2719><U+2717><U+25B2> <U+2751><U+2718><U+2733> <U+2738><U+270E><U+271C><U+271C><U+25BC><U+270F><U+272A> <U+271B><U+270E><U+272B><U+270E><U+271B><U+2719><U+271C><U+272A>

                                                                     <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                               <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
                     <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270E><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+270F><U+2721><U+2711><U+2716><U+2713><U+2712> <U+270D><U+2717><U+270D><U+2712><U+270E>              <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736>
                           <U+270C><U+2718><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2721><U+2719><U+2718><U+271F>                    <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2737>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+271A><U+271B><U+2714><U+2712><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2717><U+2714><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+271C><U+2721><U+270E> <U+2722><U+2716><U+2723><U+2723> <U+2724><U+261B><U+2713><U+2717><U+2714><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                            <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2738>
               <U+2712><U+2713><U+270E><U+2714><U+2725><U+2714><U+270F><U+2721><U+270E><U+2714><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2712><U+270C> <U+2725><U+2713><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2719><U+2714><U+2725><U+2714><U+270F><U+2721><U+2719><U+2714><U+2713><U+2712>
               <U+261B><U+2718><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+271F><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2714><U+270F><U+2605> <U+2719><U+2713> <U+2729><U+261B><U+2713><U+2717><U+2716><U+270C><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2719><U+2716><U+2725><U+2714><U+270F><U+2721><U+270E><U+2714><U+2713><U+272A>       <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2739>
                                  <U+270D><U+2712><U+270C>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+272B><U+272C><U+271E>
                           <U+271F><U+2719><U+2721><U+261B><U+270E>
                                                                                   <U+2732><U+273A><U+2735><U+2735><U+2738>
                 <U+261B><U+270D><U+2726><U+273B><U+270D><U+271F><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+2717><U+2716><U+270F><U+270D> <U+261E><U+2713> <U+2724><U+261B><U+2713><U+2717><U+2714><U+270C><U+270D>             <U+270C><U+2605><U+2719><U+2718><U+261B><U+271B><U+2714><U+2712><U+2605> <U+2715><U+2713><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2713><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270E><U+2714><U+2715><U+2714><U+270F><U+2721><U+2719><U+2716><U+2713><U+2712>
                  <U+2712><U+2713><U+2719><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270F><U+2721><U+270E><U+273C><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+271F><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2713><U+261B><U+271B>        <U+273D><U+2721><U+271F><U+2718><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+2724><U+271A><U+2718><U+270C><U+2605><U+270E><U+2605><U+261B><U+271B><U+2716><U+2712><U+2605><U+270C> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2716><U+2719><U+2718><U+261B><U+2714><U+2713><U+2712>
                                                                                   <U+2732><U+273A><U+2735><U+2735><U+2739>
                                                             <U+273E><U+2718><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+271F><U+2720> <U+270C><U+2605><U+2717><U+2714><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2713>
                                                            <U+2729><U+271A><U+2713><U+2717><U+2714><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2712><U+2713><U+270E><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+270F><U+2721><U+270E><U+2716><U+2713><U+2712>
                            <U+2605><U+2712><U+270C>

                                                                         <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                                      <U+271F><U+271F><U+2721>
                                                     <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713> <U+2714>                        <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+273A><U+2720>
                                                  <U+2715> <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+271C>
                          <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+271F>
<removed-apn>                                                       <U+2722><U+2723><U+271F><U+2721><U+2720>
                                            <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2727> <U+272B><U+2605><U+2726><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2605><U+272B>
                                             <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+2733><U+2725><U+2730><U+2734><U+2730><U+2735><U+2736><U+2725> <U+2737><U+2725><U+2738><U+2732><U+272F><U+2725>
                                                                 <U+2722><U+2739><U+271F><U+2721><U+2739>
                                            <U+2732><U+272B><U+273B><U+2605><U+2734><U+272A> <U+273C><U+2725><U+2730><U+2729><U+2730><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F> <U+2740><U+273F><U+2741><U+2732><U+272F><U+273F>
                                          <U+2605><U+2742> <U+2724><U+2743><U+2726> <U+2742><U+2605><U+2734><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2742> <U+272B><U+2605><U+2731><U+2732><U+2742><U+2732><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2605><U+272B>
                                    <U+2722><U+2739><U+271F><U+2721><U+2744>                                                      <U+2722><U+2739><U+271F><U+2721><U+2756>
               <U+2724><U+2743><U+2731> <U+2742><U+2605><U+2729><U+2745> <U+2605><U+2742> <U+272B><U+2605><U+2726><U+272C><U+2742><U+2732><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2732><U+2605><U+272B>                                   <U+2724><U+2743><U+2726> <U+2742><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2742> <U+272B><U+2605><U+2731><U+272C><U+2742><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2726><U+2732><U+2605><U+272B>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2746><U+271E>
                         <U+2747><U+2747><U+2748>
                                                                   <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6>
                         <U+2749><U+274A><U+274A> <U+274B>
                    <U+25CF><U+274D><U+274F><U+274F>
                                                                P<U+25D7>|<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F><U+2771><U+2772><U+2773>
                                                                   <U+2768><U+2772><U+2769><U+276C>
                         <U+2751><U+2751><U+2751>
                                                                                 <U+276D><U+276A><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+276B>
                                                        <U+2774><U+2775><U+276F> <U+275B><U+2772><U+2759><U+2768> <U+2772><U+275C> <U+275D><U+2772><U+276F><U+2771><U+275B><U+25D7><U+275E><U+275A><U+2761><U+25D7><U+2772><U+275D>
                                                                                 <U+276D><U+276A><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+276A>
                          <U+2762><U+2763><U+2763><U+2763><U+2763><U+2763><U+2764> <U+25D7><U+275D><U+275C><U+2772><U+2759><U+2768> <U+2775><U+2710><U+2775><U+275E><U+2765><U+2759><U+2772><U+275D><U+25D7><U+275E> <U+2766><U+2775>P<U+25D7><U+275E><U+2775>
                                                        <U+2772><U+2666> <U+275C><U+2772><U+2759><U+2768> <U+2772><U+2666> <U+275D><U+2772><U+2660><U+2771><U+275C><U+2771><U+275E><U+275A><U+2660><U+2771><U+2772><U+275D>
                                    <U+276D><U+276A><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2665>
                    <U+2767><U+276F><U+2772><U+2759><U+2775> <U+275C><U+2772><U+2759><U+2768>
                  <U+2772><U+275C> <U+275D><U+2772><U+2660><U+2771><U+275C><U+2771><U+275E><U+275A><U+2660><U+2771><U+2772><U+275D>

                                                                          <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                  <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                                           <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                       <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>
                  <U+2715><U+2716><U+2711><U+2717><U+270F><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+2716> <U+271B><U+271C><U+270F><U+2722> <U+271C><U+2723> <U+271A><U+271C><U+2711><U+2724><U+271B><U+2724><U+2725><U+270E><U+270D><U+2726><U+271C><U+2727>            <U+272A><U+2716><U+2711><U+2717><U+2732><U+2722><U+2726><U+2727><U+2716> <U+271B><U+271C><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2723> <U+271A><U+271C><U+2711><U+2724><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+270E><U+2711><U+2724><U+271C><U+2727>
                   <U+2724><U+2727><U+2725><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+2724><U+271A><U+272B> <U+270C><U+271C><U+272C><U+271A><U+272A> <U+271A><U+271C><U+2711><U+2724><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+270E><U+2711><U+2724><U+271C><U+271A>              <U+2716><U+2733><U+2725><U+2734><U+2735><U+272A><U+2724><U+2727><U+272B> <U+270C><U+271C><U+2736><U+2727><U+272A> <U+271A><U+271C><U+2737><U+2724><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+270E><U+2711><U+2726><U+271C><U+271A>
                                  <U+2716><U+2727><U+272A>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2721><U+261E>
                <U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+273B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273B><U+273F>                <U+2738><U+2739><U+273A><U+2740> <U+2741><U+2740><U+2742><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+2743><U+2742><U+2744> <U+2745><U+2746> <U+273B><U+273D><U+2741><U+273C><U+273A> <U+2743><U+273C> <U+273A><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749><U+274A>
                <U+271A><U+2745><U+270D><U+2726><U+2746><U+2741><U+274B><U+270E><U+270D><U+2743><U+273D><U+2727> <U+2743><U+273C>           <U+270D><U+2745> <U+273D><U+270F> <U+25CF><U+270F><U+273A><U+274D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2739><U+2749><U+2727> <U+270F><U+273A><U+2746><U+273A><U+270F><U+273A><U+271A><U+274B><U+273A> <U+274A><U+273A><U+273A><U+274A>
                <U+2719><U+2727><U+270E><U+274F><U+274F><U+270F><U+2745><U+274F><U+270F><U+2743><U+274D><U+270D><U+273A>
                                          <U+273F><U+2751><U+25B2><U+2741><U+2740><U+25CF> <U+25BC><U+273A><U+274B><U+2742><U+2751><U+25B2><U+273A>
                                          <U+2743><U+2740> <U+2711><U+2739><U+273A><U+2749><U+270D><U+273A><U+270F>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2761>   <U+2761>                               <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2762>
<removed-date>
                      <U+275C>
                  <U+2775>   <U+275B>
              <U+2774>
                                                  <U+275D>           <U+275E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+275D>               <U+275E>
                                  <U+2716>                               <U+2716>                                   <U+2716>                       <U+2716>                           <U+2716>                            <U+2716>                           <U+2716>                   <U+2716>                   <U+2716>                       <U+2716>                           <U+2716>                                    <U+2716>                                       <U+2716>               <U+2716>               <U+2716>               <U+2716>                   <U+2716>                        <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+276B>
                                      <U+272C>                                       <U+272C>                                       <U+272C>                   <U+272C>                           <U+272C>                            <U+272C>                   <U+272C>                               <U+272C>                       <U+272C>                   <U+272C>               <U+276D>                                            <U+276D>                               <U+272C>                   <U+272C>           <U+272C>                   <U+272C>                   <U+272C>                <U+276D>
                                                                                                          <U+2716>                       <U+2716>                           <U+2716>                                                                                                <U+2716>                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+276A>           <U+276A>
                                      <U+272B>                                       <U+272B>                                                                                                                    <U+272B>                   <U+272B>                               <U+272B>                                                                       <U+272B>                                    <U+272B>                                                           <U+272B>                   <U+272B>                   <U+272B>                <U+272B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>                           <U+2716>                                                                                                <U+2716>                       <U+2716>
                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                              <U+272C>                               <U+272C>                                                                                                                            <U+272C>                       P                   <U+272C>                                                                   P                                        <U+272C>                           <U+272C>                   <U+272C>           <U+272C>                   <U+272C>                   <U+272C>                        <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2716>
                                                                      <U+2716>                                   <U+2716>                       <U+2716>                           <U+2716>                            <U+2716>                                                                   <U+2716>                       <U+2716>                                                                <U+2716>                                                                                                                                <U+2716>
                                      <U+272B>                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+276C>                                                                                       <U+276C>                                                                        <U+276C>                               <U+272B>               <U+276C>                           <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2716>               <U+2716>
                              <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2717>                                                                                                            <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2716>                               <U+2716>                                                                                           <U+2716>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2716>                    <U+2716>
                                                                          <U+272C>                                   <U+272C>                               <U+272C>                   <U+272C>                                                                                                        P                   <U+272C>                                                                                                                                <U+272C>                   <U+272C>
                              <U+2716>                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2716>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2716>                               <U+2716>                                                                                           <U+2716>                                    <U+2716>                                       <U+2716>                                                                       <U+2716>                    <U+2716>
                                                                          <U+272B>                                       <U+272B>                           <U+272B>                   <U+272B>                                                                                                        <U+272B>                   <U+272B>                                                                                                                                <U+272B>                   <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25C6>                                                                                                                                                    <U+25C6>                                                                                                                                    <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>                                                                                                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>                                                                                                                                                    <U+273C>                                                                                                                                                <U+273C>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25BC>                                                                                                                                                    <U+275A>                                                                                                                                    <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                <U+2747>
                                                                                  <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2746>                                                                                                                                                <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2768>
                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+272A>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F>                                                                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2759>
                                                                                                  <U+272F>                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2744>                                            <U+2729>                                                                   <U+272F>                                                                                <U+2729>                                                                           <U+272F>                                                        <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2726>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2736>
                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2726>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2726>                                                                                                                                                            <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2729>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2729>
                                                                          <U+2729>                                                                       <U+273A>                                                                                                                                                    <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271C>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271C>
                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2742>                                                                                                                                                <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+25B2>                                                                                                                                    <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                          <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2751>                                               <U+2605>                                                                                                    <U+2751>                                                               <U+2605>                                                                    <U+2751>
                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2739>                                                                                                                                                <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>                                                                                                        <U+270C>                                       <U+271D>
                                          <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>                                                                                                                                                    <U+271A>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2730>
                                          <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2727>                                                                                                                            <U+2711>                                       <U+2727>                                                                                                            <U+2711>                                                       <U+2727>                                                                    <U+273C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                  <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2733>               <U+2734>                                                                                                                                            <U+2733>       <U+2734>
                                          <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2715>                                                                                    <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+274F>                                                                                                                                                    <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                    <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>                                                                                                                                                        <U+274D>                                                                                                                                            <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2732>                                                                                                                                                            <U+2732>
                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2741>                                                                                                                                                <U+2741>
                                                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2714>                                                                                                                                            <U+2714>
                                                                                                  <U+271C>                                                                                                                                                                <U+271C>                                                                                                                                                            <U+271C>
                                          <U+271F>                                                                                           <U+271F>                                                                                    <U+271F>                                                               <U+271F>                                                                                                        <U+271F>                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                <U+2740>
                                                                          <U+2726>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                                                                                                                                        <U+25CF>                                                                                                                                            <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                          <U+2714>                                                                   <U+2714>                       <U+2714>                                                                <U+2714>                   <U+2714>                                           <U+2714>                   <U+2714>                                                                <U+2714>                                       <U+2714>                               <U+2714>       <U+2714>                                                <U+2714>
                                          <U+2713>                                                                   <U+2713>                       <U+2713>                                                                <U+2713>                   <U+2713>                                           <U+2713>                   <U+2713>                                                                <U+2713>                                       <U+2713>                               <U+2713>       <U+2713>                                                <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2739>                                                                                                                                                <U+2739>
                                                                                  <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2747>                                                                                                                                            <U+2747>
                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                        <U+271F>                                                                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                <U+270C>                                                               <U+270C>                                                                                    <U+270C>                                                                       <U+270C>                                                        <U+270C>
                                          <U+270C>                                                                   <U+270C>                                                                                                            <U+270C>                                                       <U+25D7>                                                                                                                <U+270C>                                   <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2733>                                                                                                                                            <U+2733>
                                                                          <U+2725>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                          <U+271D>                                                                   <U+271D>                       <U+271D>                                                                <U+271D>                   <U+271D>                                           <U+271D>                                                                                    <U+271D>                                       <U+271D>                               <U+271D>                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>                                                                                                                                                    <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2771>
                                          <U+271F>                                                                   <U+271F>                       <U+271F>                                                                <U+271F>                   <U+271F>                                           <U+271F>                                                                                    <U+271F>                                       <U+271F>                               <U+271F>                                                        <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>                                                                                                            <U+271F>                                           <U+274B>                                                                                                    <U+271F>                                       <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                                  <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2747>                                                                                                                                            <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>                                                                                                                                                    <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273F>
                                          <U+2712>                                                                   <U+2712>                       <U+2712>                                                                <U+2712>                   <U+2712>                                           <U+2712>                                                                                    <U+2712>                                       <U+2712>                               <U+2712>                                                        <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>                                                                                                                                                    <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2715>
                                                                                  <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                <U+270C>                                                               <U+270C>           <U+25D7>                                                                        <U+270C>                                                                       <U+270C>                                                        <U+270C>
                                          <U+270C>                                                                   <U+270C>                                                                                                            <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>                                                                                                                                                    <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2730><U+2714>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2730><U+2714>                                                                                                                                           <U+2730><U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                    <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2724>
                                                                          <U+2724>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2724>
                                          <U+2711>                                                                   <U+2711>                       <U+2711>                                                                <U+2711>                   <U+2711>                                           <U+2711>                   <U+2711>                                                                <U+2711>                                       <U+2711>                               <U+2711>       <U+2711>                                                <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>                                                                                                                                                    <U+273C>                                                                                                                                                <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>                                                                                                                                                        <U+273F>                                                                                                                                            <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                                                                                        <U+273B>                               <U+271F>                                                                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25D7>                                                                                                                                                    <U+25D7>
                                          <U+270C>                                       <U+270C>                           <U+270C>                       <U+270C>                                                                <U+270C>                   <U+270C>                       <U+270C>                   <U+270C>                                                                                    <U+270C>                                       <U+270C>                   <U+270C>           <U+270C>                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>                                                                                                                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>                                                                                                                                                        <U+274A>                                                                                                                                            <U+274A>
                                          <U+270F>                                       <U+270F>                           <U+270F>                       <U+270F>                                                                <U+270F>                   <U+270F>                       <U+270F>                   <U+270F>                   <U+270F>                                                                <U+270F>                                       <U+270F>                   <U+270F>           <U+270F>       <U+270F>                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2748>                                                                                                                                            <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                          <U+270E>                                       <U+270E>                           <U+270E>                       <U+270E>           <U+2738>                                                    <U+270E>                   <U+270E>                       <U+270E>                   <U+270E>                   <U+270E>                                                                <U+270E>                                       <U+270E>                   <U+270E>           <U+270E>       <U+270E>           <U+2738>                                    <U+270E>
                          <U+270D>                                               <U+2723>                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                                          <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                        <U+2729>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2733>
                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                          <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                          <U+261B>               <U+2711>                               <U+271F>                                                                                                                                <U+261B>
                                          <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+2720>
                                                      <U+271C>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                          <U+2701>
                                          <U+271F>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+272F>
                                                      <U+271B>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                      <U+272E>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                          <U+260E>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                      <U+2719>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                          <U+270C>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                      <U+2775>
<removed-date>
                      <U+2774>                               <U+277A>
              <U+2469>                                                                                                                                       <U+2780>
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>                                                       <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27B4>                                                                                                                                                           <U+27BE>                                                                   <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2798>                                               <U+27B9>                                       <U+27B4>                           <U+27B4>                                                       <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B6>                                                                       <U+27AA>                                                                                                                                               <U+27B6>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27B6>                                               <U+27AA>                   <U+27AA>       <U+27B6>                                                                                                   <U+27B6>                                                                                               <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277E>
                                      <U+2779>                                                                                                               <U+277D>
                                      <U+2778>
                                      <U+2777>                                                                                                               <U+277C>
                                      <U+2776>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B9>                                                                       <U+27BE>                                                                   <U+27BE>                                                                               <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27BE>                                                   <U+27BE>                   <U+2798>                       <U+27BE>                                                                                               <U+27BE>       <U+2798>                                               <U+27BE>                               <U+27B9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27AA>                                               <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27AA>                                           <U+279A>                                                                                                                       <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B6>                                                       <U+27B9>                                                                       <U+2798>                                                                   <U+27BE>                                                                                   <U+27BE>                                                                           <U+27B4>                                                       <U+27B6>                                                               <U+27BE>                                                       <U+2798>                   <U+2798>           <U+27B6>                                               <U+27AE>                                           <U+2750>                   <U+27AE>                           <U+27AE>                               <U+27AE>                           <U+27B6>                   <U+27B4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>               <U+2703>                           <U+2770>                               <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B9>                                                                       <U+2798>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BE>                                                                                   <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2798>                                                           <U+2798>                   <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+279A>                                                       <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                       <U+279A>                                               <U+27AC>                                               <U+27AC>               <U+27AC>                           <U+27AC>                               <U+27AC>                           <U+279A>           <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>               <U+2703>                                       <U+276E>                   <U+2770>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27B9>                                                                       <U+2798>                                                                   <U+2798>                                                                               <U+2798>                                                                           <U+27BE>                                                                                                                           <U+27BE>                                                       <U+2798>                   <U+27BE>                                                       <U+27BE>                                                               <U+27BE>                                                                                                       <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                       <U+279A>                                                                                               <U+27AC>                                       <U+27AC>                                                              <U+279A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>               <U+2703>                                   <U+276E>                                   <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27BE>                                                                   <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                           <U+27BE>                                           <U+27BE>                                               <U+2798>               <U+2798>                                                                                       <U+27B9>               <U+2798>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279A>                                                                       <U+27AA>                                                                       <U+27AA>                                                                       <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+279A>                                           <U+27AA>                   <U+27AA>                                                                                                                                           <U+27AC>                                   <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2703>               <U+2703>                                   <U+276E>                                   <U+276E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27BE>                                                                       <U+27BE>                                                                                                                                                   <U+27BE>                                       <U+27BE>                                           <U+27BE>               <U+27BE>                                                                                   <U+27B9>                   <U+27BE>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+279A>                                                                       <U+27AA>                                                                       <U+27AA>                                                                       <U+279A>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+279A>                                           <U+27AA>                   <U+27AA>                                                                                                                                           <U+27AC>                                   <U+27AC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B1>               <U+27B1>                               <U+2752>                                   <U+2752>                                   <U+27B1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2460>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2460>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27BC>                                                                                                                       <U+2766>                                                                                                                               <U+27B7>                                                           <U+2766>                                                                                                           <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A4>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27BB>                                                                                                                       <U+2764>                                                                                                                                   <U+27BB>                                                       <U+2764>                                                                                                           <U+27BB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2789>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27A1>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2789>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2789>                                                                       <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                   <U+27BA>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2461>                                                           <U+27BA>                                                                                                           <U+2461>                                                       <U+27BA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2793>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2761>                                                                   <U+2793>                                                                                                                       <U+2761>                                           <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278D>                                                                                                                       <U+27A0>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278D>                                                                                                                                                           <U+278D>                                                           <U+27A0>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27B8>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27B8>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27B8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2792>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2792>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2462>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2462>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2462>                                                                           <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2787>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2787>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2791>                                                                                                                                               <U+2793>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2791>                                                           <U+2793>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2460>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2460>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2460>                                                                           <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278B>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2466>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2764>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2466>                                                                                   <U+2764>                                                                       <U+2466>                                                                                           <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2788>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2788>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2788>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278C>                                                                           <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+278C>                       <U+27BD>                                                                                                                                   <U+278C>                           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2789>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2789>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27B5>                                                                                                                       <U+2766>                                                                                                                                   <U+27B5>                                                       <U+2766>                                                                                                           <U+27B5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2790>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2790>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2790>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2467>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2787>                                                                                                                       <U+2467>                                                                                                                                   <U+2787>                                                       <U+2467>                                                                                                           <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>                                           <U+279E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2764>                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2462>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2462>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>                                                                                           <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278F>                                                                                                                                               <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+278F>                                                           <U+2761>                                                                                                       <U+278F>                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2783>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278E>                                           <U+2464>                                                                                                           <U+27B3>                                                                   <U+2783>                                                                                                                       <U+278E>                                                               <U+27B3>                                           <U+2783>                                                       <U+278E>                               <U+2464>                               <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27B2>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2765>                                                                                               <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2789>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2789>                                                                               <U+2766>                                                                           <U+2789>                                                                                       <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2765>                                                                   <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2765>                                                               <U+2766>                                                                   <U+2765>                                                                                                       <U+2765>               <U+2766>                                           <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AF>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>                                                                               <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                       <U+278A>                                                                           <U+2762>                                           <U+279C>                                                                                                           <U+2781>                                                       <U+2762>                                                                                                               <U+278A>                   <U+2762>                                                               <U+2781>                                       <U+2762>                                                           <U+2762>                                                              <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2787>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2787>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AD>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27AD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2763>                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>                                                                                       <U+2763>                                                                                                                                               <U+2763>                                                               <U+2763>                                                                                                           <U+2763>                       <U+2763>                                                           <U+2763>                                           <U+2763>                           <U+2763>                               <U+2763>                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2468>                                                                                                                                           <U+2468>                                                                                       <U+2468>                                           <U+279B>                                                                                                   <U+2468>                                                               <U+2468>                                                                                                           <U+2468>                       <U+2468>                                                           <U+2468>                                           <U+2468>                           <U+2468>                               <U+2468>                               <U+279B>                           <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A4>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>                                                                                               <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2468>                                                                                                                                                                           r                                                                                                                                                                                           r                                                                                               <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2799>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                           <U+2766>                                                                                       <U+2766>                                                                                                                                               <U+2766>                                                               <U+2766>                                                                                                           <U+2766>                           <U+27BD>                                                       <U+2766>                                           <U+2766>                           <U+2766>                               <U+2766>                                                           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27AB>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27AB>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2764>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2764>                                                                                                                                           <U+2764>                                                                                       <U+2764>                                                                                                                                               <U+2764>                                                               <U+2764>                                                                                                           <U+2764>                       <U+2764>                                                           <U+2764>                                           <U+2764>                           <U+2764>                               <U+2764>                                                           <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A9>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>                                                                                                                                           <U+2762>                                                                                       <U+2762>                                                                                                                                               <U+2762>                                                               <U+2762>                                                                                                           <U+2762>                       <U+2762>                                                           <U+2762>                                           <U+2762>                           <U+2762>                               <U+2762>                               <U+27A8>                           <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A4>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>                                                                                               <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2195>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2782>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2195>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>                                                                                                                                           <U+2782>                                                                               <U+2782>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2782>                                                                   <U+2782>                                                                                                   <U+2782>                                                                                   <U+2782>                                           <U+2782>                           <U+2782>                                   <U+2782>                                                       <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2786>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2786>                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                           <U+2766>                                                                                       <U+2766>                                           <U+2194>                                                       <U+2799>                                           <U+2766>                                                               <U+2766>                                                                                                           <U+2766>                       <U+2766>                                                           <U+2766>                                           <U+2766>                           <U+2766>                               <U+2766>                               <U+2194>                   <U+2799>       <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2468>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>                                                                               <U+2785>                                                           <U+2761>                                                                                       <U+2761>                                           <U+2766>                                                                                                   <U+2761>                                                               <U+2761>                                                                   <U+2785>                                       <U+2761>                       <U+2761>                                                           <U+2761>                                           <U+2761>                   <U+2785>       <U+2761>                               <U+2761>                               <U+27A8>                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A3>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27A3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+27A8>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2765>                                                                   <U+2765>                                                                       <U+2765>                                                                                       <U+2765>                                                                                                   <U+2195>                                           <U+2765>                                                               <U+2765>                                                               <U+2765>                                           <U+2765>                       <U+2765>                                                           <U+2765>                                           <U+2765>               <U+2765>           <U+2765>                               <U+2765>                                                   <U+2195>       <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2192>                                                       <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2192>                   <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                   <U+2766>                                                                       <U+2766>                                                                                       <U+2766>                                                                                                   <U+27A7>                                           <U+2766>                                                               <U+2766>                                                               <U+2766>                                           <U+2766>                       <U+2766>                                                           <U+2766>                                           <U+2766>               <U+2766>           <U+2766>                               <U+2766>                                                           <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2781>                                                                   <U+2781>                                                                       <U+2781>                                                                               <U+2781>                                                                                               <U+27A6>                                                   <U+2781>                                                                   <U+2781>                                                       <U+2781>                                           <U+2781>                       <U+2781>                                                           <U+2781>                                           <U+2781>               <U+2781>           <U+2781>                                   <U+2781>                                                      <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2794>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2794>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+279D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2464>                                                       <U+27A5>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2708>                                                                                                                                   <U+2464>                   <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2784>                                                                       <U+2784>                                                                               <U+2784>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2784>                                                                   <U+2784>                                                       <U+2784>                                           <U+2784>                       <U+2784>                                                                                                       <U+2784>               <U+2784>           <U+2784>                                   <U+2784>                                                       <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2467>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2462>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>                                                                   <U+2761>                                                   <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2708>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>                                                                                                                               <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                          <U+2775>
                          <U+2774>                               <U+275C>           <U+275D>
                  <U+276B>                                                               <U+275E>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      q                                                   t                       <U+2709>                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                          <U+2756>                   P                                               |                           <U+2759>                                   <U+275A>                                               <U+2711>                                  <U+2712>                                                                                                                              <U+2756>                                   <U+276F>                                                               <U+2772>                       <U+2751>                                       <U+2773>                                                       <U+2768>           <U+275A>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2745>                       <U+2717>               <U+2718>                           <U+276D>
                                                                          <U+25D7>                                                                                           <U+271F>                                                                                                                               <U+2713>                                                                           <U+272C>                                                                                       <U+2771>                                                                                                       <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2769>               <U+276C>                                                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                  <U+2722>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2749>                                           <U+274A>                                   <U+2701>                                                                                                                       <U+274D>                                                                                          <U+274F>           <U+2751>                                       <U+2711>                                                                                                               <U+2751>                                                       <U+2749>                                                   <U+2702>                       <U+25B2>                                                       <U+2751>                                                                           <U+2745>                       <U+25BC>               <U+2718>                           <U+25C6>
                                                                              <U+2748>                                   <U+2713>                                       <U+274B>                                                                           <U+25CF>                       <U+2706>                                                                           <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>                                                                               <U+271F>                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>                                                                           <U+2715>
                                              <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>                                                                   <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>               <U+2727>                                                                   <U+272B>                                                                       <U+2731>       <U+2733>                                                                                           <U+2736>                                                                                                                                               <U+273B>                                                                       <U+273F>                                                       <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>           <U+2745>                       <U+2746>               <U+2718>                           <U+2747>
                                                                  <U+271B>                           <U+2722>           <U+260E>                   <U+2714>                                                           <U+2729>                                                           <U+272D>   <U+272F>                                                                                                               <U+2734>                                                                                   <U+2605>       <U+2729>                       <U+2737>                                           <U+273A>                                   <U+2734>                                   <U+2729>                                                                   <U+2734>                                               <U+2742>       <U+2744>
                                                                  <U+271A>                           <U+271C>           <U+2723>               <U+2724>                   <U+2725>               <U+261E>                                                                   <U+272A>       <U+272C>               <U+272E>                                               <U+2730>       <U+2732>                           <U+2706>                                                               <U+2735>                                                       <U+2738>                       <U+2739>                                       <U+2739>               <U+2725>                       <U+273C>                               <U+273D>                       <U+273E>                                   <U+2711>               <U+2732>                                           <U+2741>           <U+2743>               <U+273D>
                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                   <U+2605>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>               <U+271E>                                           <U+2720>                                               <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>                                                               <U+270D>                       <U+270E>               <U+270F>                                           <U+2711>           <U+270E>                                               <U+2712>                       <U+270E>                                                                                                                                   <U+2716>                       <U+2717>               <U+2718>                       <U+2719>
                                                                                      <U+2704>                               <U+2706>                                                           <U+271F>                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>                                                       <U+261E>                                                                                                   <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>                                                                                                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                      <U+260E>                                                           <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+260E>                                                                                           <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                               <U+2702>

                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                                      <U+270C><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                                                    <U+270C><U+271A><U+270D><U+271B><U+271A>
                                                     <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                                                     <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2713>                            <U+2713><U+271C><U+2722><U+2713>
                                                   <U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2714>                         <U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2717><U+2718><U+2723><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                 <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+270D><U+271A>
                                                                            <U+2727><U+2605><U+2713><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2717> <U+272B><U+272C><U+2714><U+272B><U+272D><U+2714><U+272E>
                                                                                                 <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+270D><U+2725>
                                                               <U+2729><U+2727><U+272A><U+2605><U+272F><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2730><U+2731><U+272B><U+2713><U+272F><U+2605><U+2727><U+2729><U+272B>
                                                       <U+2732><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+2734> <U+272E><U+2731><U+2735><U+2729><U+272B><U+2731> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2718><U+2713> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2713><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2736><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727>
                                                                    <U+2729><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2737><U+2731><U+272B><U+272D><U+2714><U+272E>
                                                                    <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+270D><U+273E>
                                               <U+2738><U+2714><U+2739><U+273A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2735><U+2729><U+272B><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2605>
                                              <U+272B><U+2718><U+2727><U+272B><U+2731><U+273B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+273C><U+2729><U+273D><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727>
                                     <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+273F><U+270D>                          <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+270D><U+2726>
                 <U+2740>       <U+2741> <U+2742><U+2743>
                  <U+272B><U+2718><U+2727><U+272B><U+2714><U+2730> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2713><U+2729><U+2744><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727>         <U+272B><U+2718><U+2727><U+272B><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2736><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2745><U+261E>
                                                      <U+270C><U+270C><U+270D>                           <U+270C><U+271A><U+270D><U+274A><U+271A>
                                                     <U+2746><U+2747><U+2748><U+2749>
                                                     <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2713>                            <U+2713><U+2714><U+2722><U+2713>
                                                   <U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2714>                         <U+2716><U+2714><U+2717><U+2717><U+2718><U+2723><U+2714>
                                                                                                 <U+2724><U+2725><U+274B><U+270D><U+271A>
                                                                            <U+2727><U+2605><U+2713><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2717> <U+272B><U+272C><U+2714><U+272B><U+272D><U+2714><U+272E>
                                                                                                 <U+2724><U+2725><U+274B><U+270D><U+2725>
                                           <U+25CF><U+272F><U+2605><U+2718><U+272E><U+272B><U+2718><U+2717><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2737><U+2718><U+2736>
                           <U+274D><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+2733><U+274F> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2713><U+2729><U+272A><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2717> <U+272B><U+272C><U+2714><U+272B><U+272D><U+2714><U+272E>
                 <U+2751><U+25B2><U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25B2><U+25C6><U+2756>              <U+2724><U+2725><U+274B><U+270D><U+2726>                         <U+2724><U+2725><U+274B><U+270D><U+273E>
                  <U+272B><U+2718><U+2727><U+272B><U+2714><U+2730> <U+2727><U+2605>P<U+2729><U+25D7><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727>         <U+272B><U+2718><U+2727><U+272B><U+2714><U+273B> <U+2727><U+2605><U+273C><U+2729><U+273D><U+2729><U+272B><U+2718><U+2713><U+2729><U+2605><U+2727>

                                              <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                 <U+2716>
                                 <U+2720>
                                 <U+2717>
                                 <U+2718>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2721>
              <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2711>       <U+2719><U+271A>
                                     <U+271B>
                  <U+2720>          <U+2712>   <U+2715>
                  <U+261E>              <U+2715>
                                 <U+2715>   <U+271C>
                  <U+261E>                       <U+2729>
                             <U+2713>
                                     <U+2722>
                             <U+2714>       <U+2723>
                         <U+270C>
                         <U+270D>
                         <U+2720>
                         <U+270E>
                         <U+270F>

                                                                               <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>           <U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2718><U+270F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+270F>                            <U+272B><U+270F><U+271C><U+2714><U+271C><U+272C><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2718><U+270F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+270F>            <U+270C><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>      <U+2716><U+2715><U+271A><U+2717><U+271B><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+2722><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2723><U+2716><U+2722> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2712><U+2724><U+2714><U+2725>         <U+2715><U+2714>       <U+2716><U+2715><U+2722><U+2717><U+271B><U+272D><U+2712><U+271C><U+272E><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2723><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2712><U+2712><U+2724><U+2714><U+2725>         <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2759>
                                                                         <U+261B><U+2730><U+270C><U+270D><U+2731>
                                                                    <U+272F>
                                                <U+2716><U+2715><U+2713><U+272D><U+2732><U+2733> <U+2716><U+2715><U+2713><U+2717><U+2732><U+272D><U+2712><U+271C><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2719><U+270F><U+2716><U+2713>
              <U+261B><U+2730><U+270C><U+270D><U+2734>                        <U+2715><U+272C><U+271A><U+271C><U+2717><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2716><U+271B><U+2715><U+2714><U+2735><U+271C><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2736><U+2737><U+271C><U+2714><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716><U+2737> <U+2725><U+2722><U+271C><U+2722><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                         <U+2718><U+270F><U+271A><U+270F><U+2714><U+2738><U+2717><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2718><U+270F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2739><U+271C><U+271A> <U+273A><U+2717><U+273B><U+273C>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D>
                            <U+273D><U+2714><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+2718><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2715><U+2713><U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+2722><U+272D><U+2715><U+2716>
                                                                   <U+273E><U+261B><U+2730><U+270C><U+270C><U+270E>
                                                   <U+2714><U+270F><U+273F><U+2724><U+2740><U+2725><U+2722> <U+2716><U+2715><U+2713><U+272D><U+2732><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+2741><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716>
              <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2742>         <U+273D><U+2714><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+2718><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2715><U+2713><U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+2722><U+272D><U+2715><U+2716>           <U+2715><U+2714>             <U+273D><U+2714><U+2715><U+2719><U+2717><U+2718><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2715><U+2713><U+2717><U+271B><U+272D><U+2712><U+271C><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716>        <U+261B><U+275A><U+270C><U+270C><U+2731>
                                     <U+270F><U+2716><U+2718>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2743><U+271E>
                               <U+2744><U+2745><U+2746>
                              <U+2747><U+2748><U+2749> <U+274A>
                                                                                        <U+270C><U+270E><U+270D>
                           <U+274B><U+25CF><U+274D>
                             <U+274F>
                           <U+272D><U+2716><U+2712><U+2714><U+270F><U+271C><U+2725><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2716>
                           <U+2739><U+270F><U+271C><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2714><U+271C><U+2722><U+270F>
                              <U+2751><U+2751><U+2751>
                      <U+25B2> <U+25BC> <U+25C6> <U+2756>              P<U+25D7>
                              |
                                                                       <U+2771><U+261E><U+270E><U+2772><U+2759>
                                                                   <U+276F>
                                                                                                 <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+276A>
                                         <U+2717><U+2716><U+2732><U+2773><U+2714><U+2735> <U+270F><U+2768><U+270F><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2773><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2718><U+270F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+270F>
                                           <U+2715><U+2732> <U+2716><U+2715><U+2713><U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+2741><U+272D><U+2715><U+2716> <U+270F><U+2719><U+270F><U+2716><U+2713>               <U+2763><U+270F><U+271C><U+2714><U+2713> <U+2714><U+271C><U+2713><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+2714><U+270F><U+271C><U+2725><U+270F><U+2725>
                                                                               <U+2764><U+2716><U+2773><U+2713><U+272D><U+271B><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+2713><U+2717><U+2773><U+2716> <U+2710><U+2765><U+2723><U+2716><U+2713><U+2766>
                                           <U+2774><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2775>
                 <U+2718><U+270F><U+2713><U+270F><U+2714><U+2735><U+2717><U+2716><U+270F> <U+270F><U+273B><U+270F><U+2712><U+2722><U+2714><U+2773><U+2716><U+2717><U+2712> <U+2718><U+270F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+270F>
                   <U+2713><U+2715> <U+273D><U+2714><U+2773><U+2719><U+2717><U+2718><U+270F> <U+2716><U+2773><U+2713><U+2717><U+2732><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+2722><U+272D><U+2773><U+2716>
                                           <U+2774><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+275B>
                <U+2713><U+2724><U+2714><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2737> <U+2773><U+2716> <U+271C> <U+2725><U+2712><U+2714><U+270F><U+270F><U+2716> <U+275C> <U+2725><U+2773><U+2724><U+2716><U+2718>
               <U+275D> <U+2718><U+2717><U+2725><U+275E><U+2761><U+2733><U+2717><U+2716><U+2737> <U+2762><U+270F><U+2725><U+2725><U+271C><U+2737><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2717><U+2712><U+271C><U+271A><U+2717><U+2716><U+2737>
                      <U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+2714><U+270F><U+271C><U+2725><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2716> <U+2739><U+2723><U+271C><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2714><U+271C><U+271A><U+270F>

                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
                <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C>           <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717><U+2715><U+270F><U+270D>                         <U+2718><U+270D><U+2719><U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717><U+2715><U+270F><U+270D>       <U+261E><U+2734><U+270C>
                                                      <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+270C><U+2724>             <U+2716><U+270D><U+2711><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2719><U+2711><U+270D>          <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+270C><U+2734>
                                                   <U+271B>
                                        <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719><U+2714><U+2725><U+2729><U+2715><U+2726> <U+2715><U+2714><U+272A><U+2713><U+2605><U+2729><U+2719><U+2727><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2605><U+270D><U+272B><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2725><U+2727><U+2719><U+2727><U+270D>
                                                      <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+270C><U+272C>             <U+2716><U+270D><U+2711><U+270D><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2719><U+2726><U+270D>          <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+270C><U+273A>
                                                   <U+271B>
<removed-apn>
                                        <U+2726><U+2712><U+2719><U+2714><U+2725><U+272D><U+2715><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2714><U+272E><U+2713><U+2712><U+272D><U+2719><U+2711><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270D><U+272B><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2725><U+2711><U+2719><U+2711><U+270D>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+261E><U+272F>       <U+2716><U+2730><U+2726><U+2731><U+270F><U+2732> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2732><U+2715><U+272E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2733><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2730><U+2717><U+2730><U+2714><U+2732>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+261E><U+2734>          <U+2713><U+271A><U+2727><U+2719><U+2715><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2714><U+272A><U+2713><U+2605><U+2729><U+2735><U+2727><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>
                              <U+2712><U+2730><U+272B><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2719><U+2732><U+2730>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+261E><U+2724>       <U+2716><U+270D><U+2711><U+270D><U+2605><U+2729><U+2715><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717><U+2715><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2736><U+2719><U+2726> <U+2718><U+2715><U+270E><U+2737>
                             <U+2738><U+2712><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2726><U+2715><U+272E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2732><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>
                                                                   <U+2739><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+261E><U+273A>
                                                    <U+2712><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+2725><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2727><U+2715><U+272A><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2727><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+261E><U+272C>          <U+2738><U+2712><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2742><U+2743> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2732><U+2715><U+272E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2732><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>          <U+2713><U+2712>         <U+2745><U+2712><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2742><U+2730> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2732><U+2715><U+272E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2732><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2734><U+270C>
                                     <U+2744><U+2714><U+2716>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+273F><U+2740><U+2741>
                <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C>           <U+270D><U+2737><U+270D><U+270F><U+2726><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717><U+2715><U+270F><U+270D>                          <U+2718><U+270D><U+2719><U+2712><U+2719><U+271A><U+2737><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717><U+2715><U+270F><U+270D>      <U+261E><U+2734><U+270C>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+270C><U+2734>       <U+2716><U+270D><U+2726><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2726><U+2715><U+272A><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2726><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270D><U+2717><U+270D><U+2714><U+2746>
                                                                    <U+2739> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+270C><U+2724>
                                           <U+2712><U+270D><U+273C><U+2747><U+270D><U+2725><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2714><U+272E><U+2713><U+2712><U+2729><U+2719><U+2746><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270D><U+272B><U+2719><U+2605><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2725><U+2711><U+2719><U+2746><U+270D>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+270C><U+273A>              <U+2716><U+270D><U+2746><U+270D><U+270F><U+2726> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2719><U+2711><U+270D>                             <U+2716><U+270D><U+2726><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2725><U+2711><U+2719><U+2711><U+270D>        <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+270C><U+272C>
                                                                     <U+2748><U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+2749><U+270C>
                                           <U+2732><U+2712><U+2719><U+2714><U+2725><U+2729><U+2715><U+2733> <U+2715><U+2714><U+272E><U+2713><U+2712><U+2729><U+2719><U+2732><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+270D><U+272B><U+2719><U+2712><U+2716><U+2715><U+2714><U+272B> <U+2725><U+2732><U+2719><U+2732><U+270D>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+261E><U+2734>       <U+2716><U+270D><U+2711><U+270D><U+2712><U+2729><U+2715><U+2714><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270D><U+2717><U+2715><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2711><U+274A><U+2719><U+2711> <U+2718><U+2715><U+2737><U+270E>
                             <U+2745><U+2712><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2711><U+2715><U+272A><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2746><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>
                                                                   <U+2748><U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+2749><U+2724>
                                                    <U+2712><U+270D><U+273C><U+2747><U+270D><U+2725><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2727><U+2715><U+272A><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2727><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+261E><U+273A>          <U+2738><U+2712><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716><U+274B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2732><U+2715><U+272E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2733><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>          <U+2713><U+2712>          <U+2745><U+2712><U+2713><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716><U+270D> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2732><U+2715><U+272E><U+2715><U+270F><U+2719><U+2732><U+2715><U+2713><U+2714>   <U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+261E><U+272C>
                                     <U+270D><U+2714><U+2716>

                                                                              <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2706><U+271D>
               <U+271E><U+271E><U+271F>           <U+2720><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2720><U+2712><U+270F><U+261B><U+2720>                           <U+2718><U+2719><U+270C><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2720> <U+2711><U+2720><U+2712><U+2722><U+261B><U+2720>            <U+271E><U+2723><U+271F>
                                                                     <U+2711><U+2724><U+2725><U+2724><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2725><U+2722><U+2726><U+270F><U+261B><U+271A><U+261E><U+2722><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2724><U+270E><U+2725>     <U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2723>
                                          <U+270D><U+271B><U+2725><U+271A><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270E><U+2729><U+270D><U+270C><U+272A><U+271A><U+261E><U+2722><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2724><U+272B><U+271A><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+270E><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2725><U+271A><U+2725><U+2724>                       <U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+272D>
                                                                    <U+2711><U+2724><U+261E><U+2724><U+270C><U+272A><U+270F><U+270E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2724><U+2712><U+270F><U+261B><U+2724> <U+261E><U+2759><U+271A><U+2725> <U+275A><U+2722><U+276F><U+276F>     <U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+2771>
<removed-apn>
                                                                       <U+272E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2712><U+2722><U+2711><U+2772> <U+270E><U+270D><U+261E><U+270F><U+2773><U+270F><U+261B><U+271A><U+2768><U+270F><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                      <U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+271F><U+276C>
                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                   <U+270C><U+2720><U+276D><U+276A><U+2720><U+272C><U+276B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2774><U+270F><U+2729><U+2722><U+261B><U+271A><U+276B><U+270F><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+271E><U+271F>         <U+272E><U+270C><U+270D><U+272F><U+270F><U+2711><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+261E><U+270F><U+2729><U+270F><U+261B><U+271A><U+261E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270E>           <U+270D><U+270C>          <U+272E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2712><U+2722><U+2711><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+261E><U+270F><U+2729><U+270F><U+261B><U+271A><U+261E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270E>        <U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+271E><U+2723>
                                                           <U+2720><U+270E><U+2711>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2730><U+271D>
                              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271F>
                             <U+2731><U+2732><U+2732> <U+2733>
                                <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2739><U+273A>                                               <U+271E><U+2723><U+271F>
                          <U+273B><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+273E>
                     <U+273F><U+2740>
                                         <U+2742>
                     <U+2743>                   <U+2744>
                            <U+2741>
                      <U+2745>
                          <U+270F><U+270E><U+2746><U+270C><U+2724><U+271A><U+272C><U+2724> <U+270F><U+270E>
                          <U+2747><U+2748><U+271A><U+270C><U+261E> <U+2749><U+274A><U+261E><U+2724>      <U+274B>
                             <U+25CF> <U+25CF> <U+25CF>
                                        <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+2756>
                      <U+274D>  <U+274F> <U+2751>           P<U+25D7>P<U+25D7>
                             |
                                                                                                   <U+2727><U+2605><U+2771><U+271F><U+2723>
                                                                          <U+270F><U+270E><U+2746><U+270C><U+2748><U+271A><U+272C><U+2748> <U+2722><U+270E> <U+2775><U+2748><U+271A><U+270C><U+261E> <U+270C><U+271A><U+261E><U+2748>
                                                                            <U+275B><U+270E><U+270D><U+261E><U+270F><U+2729><U+270F><U+261B><U+271A><U+261E><U+2722><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2724><U+2712><U+2724><U+270E><U+261E><U+275C>
                                                                                                   <U+2727><U+2605><U+2771><U+271F><U+272D>
                                                                           <U+2711><U+2772><U+275D><U+2772><U+270C><U+272A><U+2722><U+270E><U+2772> <U+275E><U+2761><U+2772><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2746>
                                                                      <U+2711><U+2724><U+2762><U+2722><U+2746><U+2724> <U+261E><U+270D> <U+2763><U+270C><U+270D><U+272F><U+270F><U+2711><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+261E><U+270F><U+2729><U+270F><U+261B><U+271A><U+261E><U+2722><U+270D><U+270E>
                                                                                                   <U+2727><U+2605><U+2771><U+271F><U+2771>
                                <U+2764>                                <U+2710> <U+261E><U+270C><U+271A><U+270E><U+272C><U+272A><U+270F><U+2768> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2768><U+270F><U+2773><U+270F><U+2746><U+271A><U+2768><U+270F><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2772><U+2765><U+276A><U+2772><U+272C><U+2768>
                                               <U+2727><U+2605><U+2771><U+271F><U+276C>
                <U+261E><U+2766><U+270C><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2767> <U+270D><U+270E> <U+271A> <U+272C><U+2746><U+270C><U+2724><U+2724><U+270E> <U+2660> <U+272C><U+270D><U+276A><U+270E><U+2711>
               <U+2660> <U+2711><U+2722><U+272C><U+2665><U+2666><U+2663><U+2722><U+270E>q <U+272A><U+2720><U+272C>r<U+271A>q<U+2720> <U+2722><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F><U+2746><U+271A><U+261E><U+270F><U+270E>q
                     <U+2722><U+270E><U+261B><U+270C><U+2772><U+271A><U+272C><U+2772> <U+270F><U+270E> s<U+2772><U+271A><U+270C><U+2768> <U+270C><U+271A><U+2768><U+2772>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r                       <U+2467>   <U+2788>
                                          <U+272F>
<removed-date>
                                              <U+2730>
                      <U+271F>                           <U+2731>
                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                    <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>               <U+2772>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>               <U+274A>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>               <U+2739>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                              <U+272D>
                  <U+2704>
                  <U+2706>
                              <U+2720>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                  <U+261B>
                                  <U+270F>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                  <U+2724>
                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+273D>
                              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2733>
                                  <U+2711>
                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2768>                   <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                        <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                  <U+2723>                                                                                                   <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>                                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          q
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2777>
                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                              <U+2744>                                                                                       <U+2711>
                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                                                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>               <U+271B>
                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>               <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+2743>                                                                                   <U+2745>
                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>                           <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>               <U+274A>
                              <U+272B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2465>                                                    <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+277E>
                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2464>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
                                  <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2786>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2462>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2780>
                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2777><U+2785>
                                                          <U+2704>           <U+273C>
                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                          <U+260E>               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>                                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                      <U+273A>               <U+273A>
                                                      <U+2739>               <U+2739>       <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                                                                                   <U+273A>
                                                      <U+2738>               <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2739>                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                              <U+2743>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+273B>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                                      <U+2735>                       <U+2742>
                              <U+2727>                                                                                                                                           <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>                                                        <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                              <U+2741>                                                                                               <U+270E>
                  <U+260E>
                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+278E>
                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                  <U+270F>
                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                <U+2469>
                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                              <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>                                                        <U+2746>
                                                                                      <U+2720>
                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                  <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+274A>
                                                                                          <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2733>                                                        <U+2733>
                          <U+2720>
                                                              <U+2720>                                                                                                               <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                  <U+2702>                                                           <U+2740>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2739>
                                                                                          <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271B>                                                        <U+271B>
                              <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2469>
                                                              <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>                                           <U+2765>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                      <U+2747>                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>                                                        <U+261B>           <U+276F>
                                                                  <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2461>                                                        <U+2461>
                          <U+2720>
                                                                                          <U+2719>                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                              <U+273D>                                                                                                                                                   <U+275C>
                                                              <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+273F>                                                        <U+273F>
                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>                                                        <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                              <U+2722>                                                       <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>                                                        <U+261E>
                                                                              <U+273E>                                                                                               <U+2726>
                                                                                  <U+270F>                                           P                                           <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                              <U+271C>                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>                                                        <U+270D>
                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>                                           <U+275C>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                  <U+261B>           <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>                                                        <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+2711>
                              <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2776>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                        <U+2720>
                          <U+2720>
                                                              <U+2733>                   <U+271B>                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274D>                                                        <U+274D>
                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>                                                                                       <U+270F>                                                        <U+270F>
                              <U+271A>                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                      <U+2745>                                                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                  <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2724>                                                        <U+2724>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                      <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2469>
                              <U+261E>                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>                                                            <U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+271B>
                              <U+2719>                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>                                                        <U+270C>
                                                                              <U+273D>
                              <U+270C>                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2460>                                                        <U+2460>
                                                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>                                                                                        <U+2469>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2722>                                                                                                                           <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                              <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2783>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2782>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2781>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276D>                                                                           <U+2780>            <U+277F>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276F>
              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                              <U+25B2>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277C>
                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277B>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2756>                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+270F>
                              <U+2714>                                                                                   <U+271B>
                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                          <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2779>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277A>
                                                                                              <U+2720>
                              <U+2712>                                                                               <U+2751>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+278D>
                                                                                                                          <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t           <U+2777><U+2778>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                  <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                   s
                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                              <U+2711>                                                                                   <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273F>
                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                              <U+261B>                                                                                       <U+2745>                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2469>                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+274D>
                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                      <U+274F>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                              <U+2747>                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                              <U+270E>                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>           <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270E>
                              <U+270D>                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                              <U+2720>                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2776>
                              <U+270C>                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                              <U+274D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+278A>
                          <U+2720>                                                                                   <U+274D>
                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+270C>
                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2789>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2469>
                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2468>
                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                              <U+274B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+274A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+274A>
                                                                                              <U+2749>                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2749>
                                                                                              <U+2748>                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2748>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>               <U+25BC>
<removed-date>
                          <U+274D>
                          <U+25CF>
                                         <U+274F>
                      <U+274B>                       <U+2751>
                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+274A>                                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+261E>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2719>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+2717>                                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
              <U+2720>
                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                              <U+2717>                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                  <U+2719>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                  <U+2721>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                          <U+270F>                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                  <U+2718>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                  <U+270F>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                              <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2721>                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>                                           <U+2717>
                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+270D>                                                       <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                   <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+273D>                                               <U+2744>
                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+2717>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>                                                       <U+270F>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2743>
                                                                                          <U+2721>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>                                                       <U+2714>
                              <U+271C>
                                                                                          <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>                                                       <U+2719>
                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                              <U+2719>                                                   <U+2719>                                                           <U+2711>                                                       <U+2711>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                              <U+2717>
                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>                                                       <U+2711>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>                                                       <U+270C>
              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                              <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2717>                                                   <U+2717>                                                           <U+270E>                                                       <U+270E>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+271A>
                                                              <U+261E>                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>                                                       <U+270F>
              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                              <U+2719>
                                                              <U+2721>                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
              <U+271D>
                              <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2717>                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                          <U+2721>                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                              <U+2721>                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+2723>                                               <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>                                           <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2733>
                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                          <U+2721>                                               <U+2731>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                          <U+2717>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                          <U+2716>                                                                                                                                               <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                              <U+261E>
                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                                                          <U+2721>                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                              <U+261E>
                  <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                              <U+2711>
              <U+271E>                                                                                                   <U+2717>                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                              <U+270F>
              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                              <U+261B>
                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                                                                       <U+2701>

                                                                                     <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<removed-date>
                                                             <U+261E><U+261E><U+270C>
                                                                                             <U+261E><U+2713><U+270C><U+274B><U+2713>
                                                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                             <U+2712><U+2713><U+270C><U+2714><U+2712>
                                                       <U+2716> <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2723>
                 <U+2715>
                                                               <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>
<removed-apn>                                                                   <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+270C><U+2713>
                                                 <U+2724><U+272D><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2725><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2725><U+272F> <U+2727><U+2725><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+272E><U+2735><U+2725><U+2727>
                                                   <U+2725><U+2734> <U+2738><U+2739><U+2737><U+273A><U+2737><U+273B><U+273C><U+273D> <U+2605><U+273D><U+273E><U+2733><U+2736><U+273D>
                                                                             <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+270C><U+273F>
                                           <U+2732><U+2730><U+2737><U+2727><U+2724><U+2731><U+2735><U+272E> <U+2733><U+2727><U+2740><U+2725><U+2741><U+2742><U+2737><U+272E><U+2733><U+2725><U+2727> <U+2730><U+2743><U+2744><U+2737><U+273A><U+2605><U+2745><U+2727><U+2744>
                                             <U+2746><U+2725><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2746> <U+2727><U+2725><U+272E><U+2733><U+2746><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+272E><U+2735><U+2725><U+2727> <U+2734><U+2725><U+2730> <U+2737><U+2747><U+2748>
                                                <U+2725><U+272F> <U+2738><U+2739><U+2737><U+273A><U+2737><U+273B><U+2749><U+273D> <U+2605><U+2739><U+273E><U+2733><U+2736><U+2739><U+2724>
                                         <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+270C><U+274A>                                                           <U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+270C><U+25CF>
               <U+2724><U+272E><U+2725><U+2730><U+273D> <U+2733><U+2727><U+272F><U+2725><U+2730><U+2742><U+2737><U+272E><U+2733><U+2725><U+2727> <U+2730><U+273D><U+2744><U+2737><U+273A><U+2605><U+2745><U+2727><U+2744>                                      <U+2724><U+272E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273D> <U+2733><U+2727><U+272F><U+2725><U+273A><U+2731><U+2737><U+2732><U+2733><U+2725><U+2727> <U+2741><U+2739><U+2744><U+2737><U+2741><U+2605><U+2735><U+2727><U+2744>
                   <U+272F><U+2725><U+2730><U+2731> <U+2725><U+2734> <U+2727><U+2725><U+272E><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+272E><U+2733><U+2725><U+2727>                                             <U+272F><U+2725><U+2730><U+2742> <U+2725><U+272F> <U+2727><U+2725><U+2732><U+2733><U+272F><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737><U+272E><U+2735><U+2725><U+2727>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+274D><U+274F>
                                                            <U+261E><U+2751><U+270C>                              <U+261E><U+25B2><U+270C><U+25BC><U+25B2>
                           <U+261E><U+2713><U+270C><U+274B><U+261E>                            <U+25C6><U+2756><U+2756> P
                                                               <U+25D7> |<U+2759><U+275A><U+276F>
                                                       <U+2771><U+2772><U+2773><U+2768><U+2768>
                                                   <U+2769><U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774>          <U+2775><U+275B><U+275C>
                                                   <U+275D>                     <U+275D>                  <U+273E><U+2733><U+273B><U+2730><U+2737><U+275E><U+2735><U+2725><U+2727>
                                                                                              <U+2731><U+2725><U+2605><U+2739>
                                                   <U+2761><U+2762> <U+2763> <U+2764>
                                                            <U+2710><U+2710><U+2710>
                                                  <U+2765><U+2766><U+2767><U+2660><U+2665>
                                                                                         <U+2666><U+2663>q
                                                                                          r
                                                                                                        st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2708><U+2707>
                                                                                  <U+2460><U+2461><U+2462> <U+2463><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466> <U+2464><U+2467> <U+2468><U+2464><U+2462><U+2469><U+2467><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+2462><U+2469><U+2464><U+2468>
                                                                                                        st<U+2709><U+2708><U+2708><U+2778>
                                                                                     <U+2779><U+277A><U+2464><U+2777><U+277B><U+2776><U+2777><U+2460><U+277C> <U+277D><U+2468><U+277E><U+2464><U+277A><U+277F><U+2777><U+277C><U+2469><U+2464><U+2468>
                                                                                       <U+2780><U+2781><U+2782><U+2777><U+2465><U+277B><U+2783><U+2468><U+2782> <U+2784><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466> <U+2464><U+2784>
                                                                                          <U+2468><U+2464><U+2785><U+277D><U+2786><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+2785><U+2469><U+2464><U+2468>
                                   <U+2787>t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2708><U+2709>                                <U+2787>t<U+2709><U+2708><U+2708><U+2788>
                  <U+2460><U+2462><U+2464><U+2465><U+2781> <U+2469><U+2468><U+2784><U+2464><U+277A><U+277F><U+2777><U+2462><U+277D><U+2464><U+2468>               <U+2460><U+2462><U+2464><U+277A><U+2781> <U+277D><U+2468><U+2786><U+2464><U+2780><U+2466><U+2777><U+2785><U+277D><U+2464><U+2468>
                  <U+2465><U+2781><U+2782><U+2777><U+277A><U+277B><U+2783><U+2468><U+2782> <U+277E><U+2464><U+2465><U+2466> <U+2464><U+277E>               <U+2780><U+2789><U+2782><U+2777><U+2780><U+277B><U+277D><U+2468><U+2782> <U+2784><U+2464><U+2780><U+2466> <U+2464><U+277E>
                 <U+2468><U+2464><U+277C><U+2469><U+277E><U+277D><U+2776><U+2777><U+277C><U+2469><U+2464><U+2468> <U+2464><U+277E> <U+277E><U+2469><U+2465><U+2460><U+277C>           <U+2468><U+2464><U+277C><U+2469><U+278A><U+2469><U+2776><U+2777><U+277C><U+277D><U+2464><U+2468> <U+2464><U+277E> <U+277E><U+2783><U+277A><U+2460><U+277C>
                   <U+278B><U+278C><U+2777><U+277A><U+2777><U+2779><U+278D><U+278C> <U+277B><U+278C><U+278E><U+2469><U+2776><U+278C>                 <U+278B><U+278C><U+2777><U+2780><U+2777><U+2779><U+278F><U+278C> <U+277B><U+278C><U+278E><U+2783><U+2776><U+278C>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2799>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2194>                   <U+2195>
<removed-date>
                                      <U+2762>
                              <U+2794>       <U+2761>                                                   <U+27A3>
                                                                                  <U+2192>
              <U+2793>
                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+278E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278D>                                                                           <U+278F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+278C>               <U+2708>                                                   <U+278C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2468>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2790>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                          <U+2460>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2786>
                      q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+278B>
                                                              s                                                   <U+2462>                               <U+2464>                                                                                                   <U+2466>   <U+2467>                   <U+2776>                                                                                                   <U+277D>           <U+277E>   <U+277F>                                                                                                                                               <U+2783>                           <U+2785>                                           <U+2789>   <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2465>                                                                                           <U+2468>                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2468>               <U+2781>                               <U+2782>
                                                  r                       r                       <U+2709>           <U+2707>               <U+2463>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2777>                   <U+2779>           <U+277C>                                                   <U+277C>           r                                                                                               r                                                   t                       r           <U+2788>           <U+277C>                       r
                                                                                                              <U+2708>   <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2469>                                           <U+2778>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2784>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+277B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277B>
                                                                                      t       r                           <U+2709>       r                                                                                                                                                               r                                                                           r                                                                                                                                                                       t       r                                   <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2665>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>                                                               <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2767>                                   <U+2767>
                                                                                                                      <U+2766>                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2660>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2660>
                                                                                                      <U+2765>
                                  <U+2762>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                              <U+2764>
                          <U+275E>                                                                           <U+2710>
                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                  <U+2774>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2774>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2775>
                  <U+2702>
                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2726>
                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276D>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273E>
                                                          <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                      <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>
                                                      <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+276C>
                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                      <U+2716>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>                                                                           <U+2746>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                          <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>                                           <U+260E>                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>                                                                               <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2773>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2743>                                                                               <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>                                                                           <U+2744>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>                                                                           <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>                                                                           <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>                                                                           <U+2723>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2706>                                                                                   <U+2706>                                                                                       <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>                                                                           <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>                                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>                                                                           <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+274F>
                                                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                       <U+2733>               <U+2733>               <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                  <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>                                               <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>                                                                           <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>           <U+2723>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274D>                                               <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>                               <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>                                                                           <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>                                       <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                                                           <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                               <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>                                                   <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+272D>                               <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>                                                   <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+274A>                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2749>                                               <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>                                           <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>

                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>       <U+275A>   <U+276F>
<removed-date>
                              <U+2756>
                          <U+25BC>   <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+25D7>   |
              <U+25B2>                                           <U+2759>
                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                      <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                      <U+271C>
                      <U+274A>
                                              
                                                                                          <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2724>
                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                  <U+270E>                                                                                                               <U+2712>
                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                  <U+274F>
                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2734>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                          <U+2742>
                                                                                                                  <U+2744>
                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                  <U+2743>
                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                          <U+271B>
                                          <U+270E>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                          <U+2741>
                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                          <U+2714>
                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2745>
                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                              <U+2724>
                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                              <U+270E>
                                          <U+2711>
                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                  <U+2605>
                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                          <U+2740>
                                                              <U+2717>
                                          <U+261E>                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2717>                                                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2716>
                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                              <U+2716>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                          <U+2718>                       <U+272A>
                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                          <U+2721>                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                              <U+2719>
                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                          <U+261E>                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                          <U+273E>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+2727>
                                                                                              <U+2727>
                                                                                                                              <U+2718>
                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+2725>                   <U+2725>
                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                          <U+272E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                  <U+272B>
                  <U+271E>                                                       <U+2724>                                                       <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                          <U+2712>
                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                          <U+2723>                                                       <U+272C>
                                                                                              <U+2723>
                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                          <U+2723>
                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                          <U+2722>                   <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+2712>                   <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                  <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                              <U+271A>
                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                          <U+261E>                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273D>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                          <U+2718>                       <U+272A>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>
                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>                   <U+2701>

                                                           <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+2730>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                              <U+2724>
                                              <U+2720>
                                              <U+2725>
                                              <U+2726>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2721>
              <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+270F>                    <U+2727><U+2605>
                         <U+270C>                <U+2719>
                         <U+270D>       <U+2715>   <U+271A><U+271B>
                         <U+270D>                        <U+2729>
                  <U+2720>              <U+2716>        <U+271C>   <U+270D>
                  <U+261E>                           <U+270D>
                         <U+270E>                    <U+270D>   <U+272A>
                  <U+261E>              <U+2717>                     <U+2731>
                                          <U+2722>
                                 <U+2718>                <U+272B>
                                          <U+2723>       <U+272C>
                             <U+2711>
                             <U+2712>
                             <U+2720>
                             <U+2713>
                             <U+2714>

                             <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+270E><U+2712>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                         <U+270D>
                         <U+2720>
                         <U+2721>
                         <U+270C>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2721>
              <U+261B>
              <U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2713>
              <U+270C>
              <U+2720>
              <U+2721>
              <U+270C>

                                                                <U+2740><U+2741><U+2742><U+2740><U+2743>
<removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                         <U+273F>
                                                         <U+271E>
                                                         <U+271F>
                                                         <U+2721>
               <U+271E>
               <U+271F>
               <U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                               <U+2747>
              <U+2721>
              <U+271E>
              <U+271F>
              <U+2721>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+261B><U+271D>
                  <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>        <U+2715><U+2716><U+2715><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2717> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2723><U+271C><U+2717><U+2715>               <U+273A><U+2715><U+2725><U+2719><U+2725><U+2735><U+2716><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2723><U+271C><U+2717><U+2715>       <U+261E><U+2748><U+270D>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2713>          <U+2724><U+2715><U+271B><U+2715><U+2719><U+2725><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2727><U+2605><U+2724><U+271B><U+2725><U+2716>
                             <U+2729><U+271A> <U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+2719><U+2725><U+271B><U+2727><U+272D><U+271C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272B><U+272F>
                            <U+2730><U+2719><U+2725><U+271B><U+2727><U+2731><U+271A><U+2719><U+272D> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2719><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2731>
                         <U+2727><U+2732><U+2733><U+271B><U+2725><U+2734> <U+2735><U+2725><U+2727><U+2715><U+2722> <U+271A><U+271B> <U+271A><U+2736><U+2715><U+2719><U+2725><U+2726><U+271C><U+271B><U+2724>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2714>
                            <U+2727><U+2737><U+2727><U+2738><U+2715><U+272D> <U+271A><U+2719> <U+2736><U+2719><U+271A><U+2726><U+271A><U+2717><U+271A><U+2716>
                            <U+271A><U+2739> <U+273A><U+273B><U+2725><U+2719><U+2725><U+2735><U+2716><U+2715> <U+2722><U+2715><U+2723><U+271C><U+2717><U+273B>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+270F>           <U+2726><U+2719><U+2725><U+271B><U+2727><U+272D><U+2732><U+272C> <U+2727><U+271C><U+2724><U+273C><U+273D><U+273E>
                                                               <U+2719><U+273B><U+2717><U+2715><U+2732><U+2744><U+2715> <U+2725><U+271B><U+2722>         <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2712><U+2749>
                                                         <U+2726><U+2719><U+2725><U+271B><U+2727><U+2745><U+271A><U+2719><U+272D> <U+2727><U+271C><U+2724><U+271B><U+2725><U+2746>
                                   <U+2715><U+273C><U+2722>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
<removed-date>
                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                      <U+2749>                       <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25B2>                       
                  <U+2748>                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2464>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27AF>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2791>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>                                                               <U+2708>                                                                               <U+277A>                                                                                           <U+277A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2463>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2752>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27B9>                                                               <U+27B4>                                                                                               <U+27AC>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27AE>                   <U+27B1>                                                                                           <U+27B4>                                                                                                       <U+2750>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2787>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A8>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2798>                                                                   <U+27B7>                   <U+27B7>               <U+2708>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2708>                                       <U+2703>                                               <U+27B7>                   <U+27B7>                       <U+2708>
                                                                                                                      <U+27AA>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276E>                                           r
                                      <U+27BE>                   <U+279A>
                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A7>           <U+27A9>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27A7>           <U+27A9>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A2>
                                                                                                                                      <U+27A1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2781>               <U+2782>                   <U+2770>                   r
                              <U+2781>                                       <U+2192>                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A5>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+277B>                                                                                                           <U+2707>                   <U+2464>                                       <U+2464>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+277B>                                                                                                               <U+2707>                                                                               <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+27A6>                       <U+27AB>           <U+27AD>                                                                                                                       <U+27AF>                                                                                           <U+27AF>                                                                   <U+27B3>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+27B8>                                           <U+27BB>                                                                                                                                                           <U+27B8>                                                                       <U+2791>                       <U+278B>                                           <U+27B3>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27A8>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+27B2>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+27BA>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+27BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277A>                                                                       <U+2466>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+277A>                                                                                               <U+2466>
                              <U+2781>                                       <U+2192>                                   <U+27A0>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2781>               <U+2782>                   <U+279E>                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27BD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+27B5>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2195>
                                                                                                                              <U+2194>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2464>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2799>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2791>                           <U+2799>
                                                                                                      <U+27A3>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+279F>
                          <U+2781>                                       <U+2192>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2781>               <U+2782>               <U+279E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+279B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+279C>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2785>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2464>                                                                                                                       <U+2464>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2464>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2465>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2784>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2787>                   <U+2788>                   <U+2789>                                                                                               <U+278A>                                           <U+278B>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+278E>                   <U+278F>                                   <U+2790>                                                                   <U+2791>                                                                                       <U+2792>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+277A>                                                                                   <U+2466>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+277A>                                                                               <U+2466>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2781>               <U+2782>                               <U+2794>       r
                                                                                  <U+2783>
                      <U+2781>                       <U+2782>                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+278C>                                                                                                                   <U+278D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2786>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2793>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2778>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2776>
                                                                                                                          s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2707>               <U+2460>                                               <U+2462>                                                       <U+2464>                                               <U+2465>                                       <U+2467>                                                       <U+2462>                           <U+2468>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2707>                           <U+2779>                                               <U+2467>                                                                                                   <U+277B>                                                                   <U+277C>                                               <U+2467>           <U+277D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>               <U+2708>                                                       <U+2461>                                               <U+2463>                                                                                           <U+2466>                                               <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2709>                   <U+2708>                                                               <U+2461>                                                                               <U+277A>                                                                               <U+2466>                                                                   <U+2461>
                                  <U+2663>
                                                              q                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+277F>           <U+2780>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2469>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2777>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+277E>
                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                  <U+2749>                       <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25B2>
              <U+2748>
                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>                                                               <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2759>                                                                                                   <U+2759>                                                                   <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                               <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2765>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2773>                                                                                                                                   <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>                                                                                                                   <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>                                                                                                           <U+2731>                                                                                                                                                               <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2774>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2751>                                                   <U+2751>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276D>                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2741>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>                                                                                           <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>                                                                                                       <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                          <U+274F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2730>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+276C>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2751>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2727>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2740>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272E>                               <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+273F>                                                                                                           <U+2743>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2726>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>                                                                                                               <U+272D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>                                                                                                                   <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2724>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+272C>
                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>                                                                                                                   <U+2716>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>                                                                                                                   <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2742>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+272A>                                           <U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2730>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2745>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2711>                                                                   <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>                                                                                               <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2741>                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>                                                                                           <U+2718>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2718>                                                                                   <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2718>                                               <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                       <U+2720>                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720>                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                                               <U+271F>

