     CLOSTRIDIAL TOXIN PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS
Abstract: Animal protein-free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and at least two excipients.

    WO 2010/090677                                                                      PCT/US2009/067538
                 CLOSTRIDIAL TOXIN PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS
[01] This application is an international patent application that claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. § 119(e)
to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/121,345, filed on December 10, 2008, and claims priority
pursuant to 35 U.S.C. § 120 to U.S. Patent Application No.12/331,816, filed on December 10, 2008, each of
which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[02] A pharmaceutical composition is a formulation comprises at least one active ingredient and at least one
inert ingredient, called an excipient, used as a diluent or vehicle for the active ingredient. An excipient is
useful in one or more of the following as a stabilizing agent, a surfactant, a bulking agent, a cryo-protectant, a
lyo-protectant, a preservative, and a buffer. A pharmaceutical composition can be processed into a solid
form, such as, e.g., a lyophilized (freeze dried), or vacuum dried powder which can be reconstituted with a
suitable fluid, such as saline or water, prior to administration to a patient. Alternately, a pharmaceutical
composition can be formulated as an aqueous solution or suspension.
[03] The vast majority of pharmaceutical compositions include a small molecule (or chemical entity) as their
active ingredient. Recently, with the advent of the biotechnology industry, pharmaceutical compositions
comprising a protein active ingredient have been, or are currently being, developed. Unfortunately, a protein
active ingredient can be very difficult to stabilize (i.e., maintained in a state where loss of biological activity is
minimized), thereby resulting in a loss of protein and/or loss of protein activity during the formulation,
reconstitution (if required) and storage of the pharmaceutical composition prior to use. Stability problems can
arise due to surface adsorption of a protein active ingredient, physical instability, such as, e.g., denaturation or
aggregation, or chemical instability, such as, e.g., cross-linking, deamidation, isomerization, oxidation,
formation of acidic or basic species, Maillard reaction, and fragmentation. To prevent such instability, various
protein-based excipients, such as albumin and gelatin, have been used to stabilize a protein active ingredient
present in a pharmaceutical composition.
[04] Unfortunately, despite their known stabilizing effects, significant drawbacks exist to the use of protein
excipients, such as albumin or gelatin, in a pharmaceutical composition. For example albumin and gelatin are
expensive and increasingly difficult to obtain. Furthermore, blood products or animal derived products such
as albumin and gelatin, when administered to a patient can subject the patient to a potential risk of receiving
blood borne pathogens or infectious agents. Thus, itis known that the possibility exists that the presence of
an animal-derived protein excipient in a pharmaceutical composition can result in inadvertent incorporation of
infectious elements into the pharmaceutical composition. For example, it has been reported that use of
human serum albumin may transmit prions into a pharmaceutical composition. Thus, it is desirable to find
suitable non-protein excipients, such as, e.g., stabilizers, cryo-protectants and lyo-protectants, which can be
used to stabilize the protein active ingredient present in a pharmaceutical composition.
[05] The unique characteristics of Clostridial toxins further constrain and hinder the selection of suitable non
protein excipients for a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For
example, Clostridial toxins are large proteins having an average molecular weight of approximately 150 kDa,
                                                         1

     WO 2010/090677                                                                       PCT/US2009/067538
and are further complexed with non-toxin associated proteins that increase the size to approximately 300-900
kDa. The size of a Clostridial toxin complex makes it much more fragile and labile than smaller, less complex
proteins, thereby compounding the formulation and handling difficulties if Clostridial toxin stability is to be
maintained. Hence, the use of non-protein excipients, such as, e.g., stabilizers, cryo-protectants and lyo
protectants must be able to interact with the Clostridial toxin active ingredient in a manner which does not
denature, fragment or otherwise inactivate the toxin or cause disassociation of the non-toxin associated
proteins present in the toxin complex.
[06]    Another problem associated with a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, is the exceptional safety,
precision, and accuracy that is necessary for at all steps of the formulation process. Thus, a non-protein
excipient should not itself be toxic or difficult to handle so as to not exacerbate the already extremely stringent
requirements currently in place to formulate a pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial toxin active
ingredient.
[07]    Still another difficulty linked with a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, is the incredible low amounts of
Clostridial toxin that is used in a pharmaceutical composition. As with enzymes generally, the biological
activities of the Clostridial toxins are dependant, at least in part, upon their three dimensional conformation.
Thus, a Clostridial toxin is detoxified by heat, various chemicals, surface stretching, and surface drying.
Additionally, it is known that dilution of a Clostridial toxin complex obtained by the known culturing,
fermentation and purification methods to the much lower concentration used in a pharmaceutical composition
results in rapid inactivation of the toxin. The extremely low amount of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient that
is used in a pharmaceutical composition, makes this active ingredient very susceptible to adsorption to, e.g.,
the surfaces of laboratory glassware, vessels, to the vial in which the pharmaceutical composition is
reconstituted and to the inside surface of a syringe used to inject the pharmaceutical composition. Such
adsorption of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient to surfaces can lead to a loss of active ingredient and to
denaturation of the remaining Clostridial toxin active ingredient, both of which reduce the total activity of the
active ingredient present in the pharmaceutical composition. Hence, the use of non-protein excipients, such
as, e.g., stabilizers, cryo-protectants and lyo-protectants must be able to act as surface blockers to prevent
the adsorption of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient to a surface. To date, the only successful stabilizing
agent for this purpose has been the animal derived proteins, such as, e.g., human serum albumin and gelatin.
[08]    Yet another problem connected to a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, is the pH-sensitivity associates
with complex formation. For example, the 900-kDa BoNT/A complex is known to be soluble in dilute aqueous
solutions at pH 3.5-6.8. However, at a pH above about 7 the non-toxic associated proteins dissociate from
the 150-kDa neurotoxin, resulting in a loss of toxicity, particularly as the pH rises above pH 8.0. See Edward
J. Schantz et al., pp. 44-45, Preparation and characterization of botulinum toxin type A for human treatment,
in Jankovic, J., et al., THERAPY WITH BOTULINUM TOxIN (Marcel Dekker, Inc., 1994).                  As the non-toxic
associated proteins are believed to preserve or help stabilize the secondary and tertiary structures upon
which toxicity is depends, the dissociation of these proteins results in a more unstable Clostridial toxin active
ingredient. Thus, non-protein excipients useful to formulate a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient must be able to operate within the confines of a pH level necessary to
                                                          2

     WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
maintain the activity a Clostridial toxin active ingredient.
[09]    In light of the unique nature of Clostridial toxins and the requirements set forth above, the probability of
finding suitable non-protein excipients useful to formulate a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient has been difficult. Prior to the present invention, only animal derived protein
excipients, such as, e.g., human serum albumin and gelatin, were used successfully as stabilizers. Thus,
albumin, by itself or with one or more additional substances such as sodium phosphate or sodium citrate, is
known to permit high recovery of toxicity of botulinum toxin type A after lyophilization. Unfortunately, as
already set forth, human serum albumin, as a pooled blood product, can, at least potentially, carry infectious
or disease causing elements when present in a pharmaceutical composition. Indeed, any animal product or
protein such as human serum albumin or gelatin can also potentially contain pyrogens or other substances
that can cause adverse reactions upon injection into a patient.
[010]     What is needed therefore is a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition wherein the Clostridial
toxin (such as a botulinum toxin) is stabilized by a non-protein excipient. The present invention relates to
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions with one or more non-protein excipients which functions to
stabilize the Clostridial toxin present in the pharmaceutical composition.
[011]     Thus, in an aspect of the present invention, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises
an animal protein-free excipient and a Clostridial toxin active ingredient. In another aspect, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises at least two an animal protein-free excipients and a Clostridial toxin
active ingredient. In yet another aspect, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises at least
three an animal protein-free excipients and a Clostridial toxin active ingredient. A Clostridial toxin active
ingredient can be a Clostridial toxin complex comprising the approximately 150-kDa Clostridial toxin and other
proteins collectively called non-toxin associated proteins (NAPs), the approximately 150-kDa Clostridial toxin
alone, or a modified Clostridial toxin, such as, e.g., a re-targeted Clostridial toxin.
[012]     Thus, in an aspect of the present invention, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises
a non-protein-based excipient and a Clostridial toxin active ingredient. In another aspect, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises at least two non-protein-based excipients and a Clostridial toxin active
ingredient. In yet another aspect, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises at least three non
protein-based excipients and a Clostridial toxin active ingredient. A Clostridial toxin active ingredient can be a
Clostridial toxin complex comprising the approximately 150-kDa Clostridial toxin and other proteins collectively
called non-toxin associated proteins (NAPs), the approximately 150-kDa Clostridial toxin alone, or a modified
Clostridial toxin, such as, e.g., a re-targeted Clostridial toxin.
[013]     In another aspect of the present invention, a Botulinum toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises
an animal protein-free excipient and a Botulinum toxin active ingredient. In another aspect, a Botulinum toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises at least two animal protein-free excipients and a Botulinum toxin
active ingredient. In yet another aspect, a Botulinum toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises at least
three animal protein-free excipients and a Botulinum toxin active ingredient. A Botulinum toxin active
                                                          3

     WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
ingredient can be a Botulinum toxin complex comprising the approximately 150-kDa botulinum toxin and
NAPs, the 150-kDa Botulinum toxin alone, or a modified Botulinum toxin, or a Targeted Vesicular Exocytosis
Modulating Protein (TVEMP), such as, e.g., a re-targeted Clostridial toxin.
[014]    In another aspect of the present invention, a Botulinum toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
non-protein-based excipient and a Botulinum toxin active ingredient. In another aspect, a Botulinum toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises at least two non-protein-based excipients and a Botulinum toxin active
ingredient. In yet another aspect, a Botulinum toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises at least three non
protein-based excipients and a Botulinum toxin active ingredient. A Botulinum toxin active ingredient can be a
Botulinum toxin complex comprising the approximately 150-kDa botulinum toxin and NAPs, the 150-kDa
Botulinum toxin alone, or a modified Botulinum toxin, such as, e.g., a re-targeted botulinum toxin.
[015] Clostridia toxins produced by Clostridium botulinum, Clostridium tetani, Clostridium baratii and
Clostridium butyricum are the most widely used in therapeutic and cosmetic treatments of humans and other
mammals. Strains of C. botulinum produce seven antigenically-distinct types of Botulinum toxins (BoNTs),
which have been identified by investigating botulism outbreaks in man (BoNT/A, /B, /E and /F), animals
(BoNT/C1 and /D), or isolated from soil (BoNT/G). BoNTs possess approximately 35% amino acid identity
with each other and share the same functional domain organization and overall structural architecture. It is
recognized by those of skill in the art that within each type of Clostridial toxin there can be subtypes that differ
somewhat in their amino acid sequence, and also in the nucleic acids encoding these proteins. For example,
there are presently five BoNT/A subtypes, BoNT/Al, BoNT/A2, BoNT/A3, BoNT/A4 and BoNT/A5, with
specific subtypes showing approximately 89% amino acid identity when compared to another BoNT/A
subtype. While all seven BoNT serotypes have similar structure and pharmacological properties, each also
displays heterogeneous bacteriological characteristics. In contrast, tetanus toxin (TeNT) is produced by a
uniform group of C. tetani. Two other species of Clostridia, C. baratii and C. butyricum, also produce toxins,
BaNT and BuNT respectively, which are similar to BoNT/F and BoNT/E, respectively.
[016]    Clostridial toxins are released by Clostridial bacterium as complexes comprising the approximately
 150-kDa Clostridial toxin along with associated non-toxin proteins (NAPs). Identified NAPs include proteins
possessing hemaglutination activity, such, e.g., a hemagglutinin of approximately 17-kDa (HA-17), a
hemagglutinin of approximately 33-kDa (HA-33) and a hemagglutinin of approximately 70-kDa (HA-70); as
well as non-toxic non-hemagglutinin (NTNH), a protein of approximately 130-kDa, see, e.g., Eric A. Johnson
and Marite Bradshaw, Clostridial botulinum and its Neurotoxins: A Metabolic and Cellular Perspective, 39
Toxicon 1703-1722 (2001); and Stephanie Raffestin et al., Organization and Regulation of the Neurotoxin
Genes in Clostridium botulinum and Clostridium tetani, 10 Anaerobe 93-100 (2004). Thus, the botulinum
toxin type A complex can be produced by Clostridial bacterium as 900-kDa, 500-kDa and 300-kDa forms.
Botulinum toxin types B and C, are apparently produced as only a 500-kDa complex. Botulinum toxin type D
is produced as both 300-kDa and 500-kDa complexes. Finally, botulinum toxin types E and F are produced
as only approximately 300-kDa complexes. The differences in molecular weight for the complexes are due to
differing ratios of NAPs. The toxin complex is important for the intoxication process because it provides
                                                       4

     WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
protection from adverse environmental conditions, resistance to protease digestion, and appears to facilitate
internalization and activation of the toxin.
[017] Clostridial toxins are each translated as a single chain polypeptide that is subsequently cleaved by
proteolytic scission within a disulfide loop by a naturally-occurring protease. This cleavage occurs within the
discrete di-chain loop region created between two cysteine residues that form a disulfide bridge.           This
posttranslational processing yields a di-chain molecule comprising an approximately 50 kDa light chain (LC)
and an approximately 100 kDa heavy chain (HC) held together by the single disulfide bond and non-covalent
interactions between the two chains. The naturally-occurring protease used to convert the single chain
molecule into the di-chain is currently not known. In some serotypes, such as, e.g., BoNT/A, the naturally
occurring protease is produced endogenously by the bacteria serotype and cleavage occurs within the cell
before the toxin is release into the environment. However, in other serotypes, such as, e.g., BoNT/E, the
bacterial strain appears not to produce an endogenous protease capable of converting the single chain form
of the toxin into the di-chain form. In these situations, the toxin is released from the cell as a single-chain
toxin which is subsequently converted into the di-chain form by a naturally-occurring protease found in the
environment.
Table 1. Clostridial Toxin Reference Sequences and Regions
      Toxin         SEQ ID NO:               LC                  HHN,
                                                                                     HCN               Hcc
     BoNT/A               1               M1-K448            A449-1873          1874-P1110        Y1111-L1296
     BoNT/B               2               M1-K441            A442-1860         L861-E1097         Y1098-E1291
    BoNT/C1               3               M1-K449            T450-1868         N869-E1111         Y1112-E1291
     BoNT/D               4               M1-R445            D446-1864         N865-E1098         Y1099-E1276
     BoNT/E               5               M1-R422            K423-1847         K848-E1085         Y1086-K1252
     BoNT/F               6               M1-K439            A440-1866         K867-K1105         Y1106-E1274
    BoNT/G                7               M1-K446            S447-1865         S866-Q1105         Y1106-E1297
      TeNT                8               M1-A457           S458-L881          K882-E1127         Y1128-D1315
      BaNT                9               M1-K431            N432-1857          1858-K1094        Y1095-E1268
      BuNT               10               M1-R422            K423-1847         K848-E1085         Y1086-K1251
[018] Each mature di-chain molecule comprises three functionally distinct domains: 1) an enzymatic domain
located in the LC that includes a metalloprotease region containing a zinc-dependent endopeptidase activity
which specifically targets core components of the neurotransmitter release apparatus; 2) a translocation
domain contained within the amino-terminal half of the HC           (HN) that facilitates release of the LC from
intracellular vesicles into the cytoplasm of the target cell; and 3) a binding domain found within the carboxyl
terminal half of the HC (Hc) that determines the binding activity and binding specificity of the toxin to the
receptor complex located at the surface of the target cell. The Hc domain comprises two distinct structural
features of roughly equal size that indicate function and are designated the     HCN  and Hcc subdomains. Table
 1 gives approximate boundary regions for each domain and subdomain found in exemplary Clostridial toxins.
                                                      5

     WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
[019]    The binding, translocation and enzymatic activity of these three functional domains are all necessary
for toxicity. While all details of this process are not yet precisely known, the overall cellular intoxication
mechanism whereby Clostridial toxins enter a neuron and inhibit neurotransmitter release is similar,
regardless of type.     Although the applicants have no wish to be limited by the following description, the
intoxication mechanism can be described as comprising at least four steps: 1) receptor binding, 2) complex
internalization, 3) light chain translocation, and 4) enzymatic target modification. The process is initiated
when the Hc domain of a Clostridial toxin binds to a toxin-specific receptor complex located on the plasma
membrane surface of a target cell. The binding specificity of a receptor complex is thought to be achieved, in
part, by specific combinations of gangliosides and protein receptors that appear to distinctly comprise each
Clostridial toxin receptor complex. Once bound, the toxin/receptor complexes are internalized by endocytosis
and the internalized vesicles are sorted to specific intracellular routes. The translocation step appears to be
triggered by the acidification of the vesicle compartment. This process seems to initiate two important pH
dependent structural rearrangements that increase hydrophobicity and promote formation di-chain form of the
toxin. Once activated, light chain endopeptidase of the toxin is released from the intracellular vesicle into the
cytosol where it specifically targets one of three known core components of the neurotransmitter release
apparatus. These core proteins, vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP)/synaptobrevin, synaptosomal
associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) and Syntaxin, are necessary for synaptic vesicle docking and fusion
at the nerve terminal and constitute members of the soluble _-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment
protein-receptor (SNARE) family. BoNT/A and BoNT/E cleave SNAP-25 in the carboxyl-terminal region,
releasing a nine or twenty-six amino acid segment, respectively, and BoNT/C1 also cleaves SNAP-25 near
the carboxyl-terminus. BuNT cleaves at conserved portion of SNAP-25 near the carboxyl-terminus. The
botulinum serotypes BoNT/B, BoNT/D, BoNT/F and BoNT/G, TeNT, and BaNT act on the conserved central
portion of VAMP, and release the amino-terminal portion of VAMP into the cytosol. BoNT/Cj cleaves syntaxin
at a single site near the cytosolic membrane surface. The selective proteolysis of synaptic SNAREs accounts
for the block of neurotransmitter release caused by Clostridial toxins in vivo. The SNARE protein targets of
Clostridial toxins are common to exocytosis in a variety of non-neuronal types; in these cells, as in neurons,
light chain peptidase activity inhibits exocytosis, see, e.g., Yann Humeau et al., How Botulinum and Tetanus
Neurotoxins Block Neurotransmitter Release, 82(5) Biochimie. 427-446 (2000); Kathryn Turton et al.,
Botulinum and Tetanus Neurotoxins: Structure, Function and Therapeutic Utility, 27(11) Trends Biochem. Sci.
552-558. (2002); Giovanna Lalli et al., The Journey of Tetanus and Botulinum Neurotoxins in Neurons, 11(9)
Trends Microbiol. 431-437, (2003).
[020]    The ability of Clostridial toxins, such as, e.g., BoNT/A, BoNT/B, BoNT/Cj, BoNT/D, BoNT/E, BoNT/F
and BoNT/G, TeNT, BaNT and BuNT to inhibit neuronal transmission are being exploited in a wide variety of
therapeutic and cosmetic applications, see e.g., William J. Lipham,     COSMETICAND CLINICAL APPLICATIONS OF
BOTULINUM TOXIN (Slack, Inc., 2004).            Clostridial toxins commercially available as pharmaceutical
compositions include, BoNT/A preparations, such as, e.g., BOTOX*                  (Allergan, Inc., Irvine, CA),
DYSPORT*/RELOXIN*, (Beaufour Ipsen, Porton Down, England), NEURONOX* (Medy-Tox, Inc., Ochang
myeon, South Korea), BTX-A (Lanzhou Institute Biological Products, China) and XEOMIN*                      (Merz
Pharmaceuticals,       GmbH.,      Frankfurt,   Germany);     and   BoNT/B    preparations,   such    as,    e.g.,
                                                        6

     WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
MYOBLOC TM/NEUROBLOCT M (Solstice Neurosciences, Inc., South San Francisco, California).                    As an
example, BOTOX* is currently approved in one or more countries for the following indications: achalasia,
adult spasticity, anal fissure, back pain, blepharospasm, bruxism, cervical dystonia, essential tremor, glabellar
lines or hyperkinetic facial lines, headache, hemifacial spasm, hyperactivity of bladder, hyperhidrosis, juvenile
cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis, myoclonic disorders, nasal labial lines, spasmodic dysphonia, strabismus
and VII nerve disorder.
[021]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition. As used herein, the term "Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition" refers to
a formulation in which an active ingredient is a Clostridial toxin. As used herein, the term "formulation" means
that there is at least one additional ingredient in the pharmaceutical composition besides a Clostridial toxin
active ingredient. A pharmaceutical composition is therefore a formulation which is suitable for diagnostic or
therapeutic administration to a subject, such as a human patient. The pharmaceutical composition can be a
solid formulation, such as, e.g., lyophilized (freeze-dried) or vacuum dried condition, or an aqueous
formulation.   The constituent ingredients of a pharmaceutical composition can be included in a single
composition (that is all the constituent ingredients, except for any required reconstitution fluid, are present at
the time of initial compounding of the pharmaceutical composition) or as a two-component system, for
example a vacuum-dried composition reconstituted with a diluent such as saline which diluent contains an
ingredient not present in the initial compounding of the pharmaceutical composition. A two-component
system provides the benefit of allowing incorporation of ingredients which are not sufficiently compatible for
long-term shelf storage with the first component of the two component system.                  For example, the
reconstitution vehicle or diluent may include a preservative which provides sufficient protection against
microbial growth for the use period, for example one-week of refrigerated storage, but is not present during
the two-year freezer storage period during which time it might degrade the toxin. Other ingredients, which
may not be compatible with a Clostridial toxin active ingredient or other ingredients for long periods of time,
may be incorporated in this manner; that is, added in a second vehicle (i.e. in the reconstitution fluid) at the
approximate time of use.
[022]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, animal protein-free. Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical composition. As used herein, the term "animal protein-free" refers to the absence of
blood-derived, blood-pooled and other animal-derived products or compounds. As used herein, the term
 'animal" refers to a mammal, bird, amphibian, reptile, fish, arthropod, or other animal species. "Animal"
excludes plants and microorganisms, such as, e.g., yeast and bacteria. For example, an animal protein-free
pharmaceutical composition can be a pharmaceutical composition which is either substantially free or
essentially free or entirely free of a serum derived albumin, gelatin and other animal-derived proteins, such as,
e.g., immunoglobulins. As used herein, the term "entirely free" (or "consisting of' terminology) means that
within the detection range of the instrument or process being used, the substance cannot be detected or its
presence cannot be confirmed. As used herein, the term "essentially free" (or "consisting essentially of")
means that only trace amounts of the substance can be detected. As used herein, the term "substantially
free" means present at a level of less than one percent by weight of the pharmaceutical composition. As used
herein, the term "animal-derived" refers to any compounds or products purified directly from an animal source.
                                                       7

     WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
 As such, an animal protein recombinantly produced from a microorganism is excluded from the term "animal
derived product or compound." Thus, animal protein-free Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions can
include any of the Clostridial neurotoxin active ingredients disclosed in the present specification. As a non
limiting example of an animal protein-free Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition is a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a BoNT/A toxin as the active ingredient and a suitable sugar and surfactant as
excipients. As another non-limiting example of an animal protein-free Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex as the active
ingredient and a suitable sugar and surfactant as excipients. As yet another non-limiting example of an
animal protein-free Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
modified BoNT/A toxin including an additional di-leucine motif as the active ingredient and a suitable sugar
and surfactant as excipients. As still another non-limiting example of an animal protein-free Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a re-targeted BoNT/A including an
opioid peptide targeting moiety as the active ingredient and a suitable sugar and surfactant as excipients.
[023]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a Clostridial toxin active
ingredient. As used herein, the term "Clostridial toxin active ingredient" refers to a therapeutically effective
concentration of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, such as, e.g., a Clostridial toxin complex, a Clostridial
toxin, a modified Clostridial toxin, or a re-targeted Clostridial toxin. As used herein, the term "therapeutically
effective concentration" is synonymous with "therapeutically effective amount," "effective amount," "effective
dose," and "therapeutically effective dose" and refers to the minimum dose of a Clostridial toxin active
ingredient necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and includes a dose sufficient to reduce a
symptom associated with aliment being treated. In aspects of this embodiment, a therapeutically effective
concentration of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient reduces a symptom associated with the aliment being
treated by, e.g., at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least
70%, at least 80%, at least 90% or at least 100%.        In other aspects of this embodiment, a therapeutically
effective concentration of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient reduces a symptom associated with the aliment
being treated by, e.g., at most 10%, at most 20%,at most 30%, at most 40%, at most 50%, at most 60%, at
most 70%, at most 80%, at most 90% or at most 100%.
[024]    It is envisioned that any amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient can be added in formulating a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a
therapeutically effective amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recoverable.         In aspects of this
embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added to the formulation is at least 0.001 U/kg,
at least 0.01 U/kg, at least 0.1 U/kg, at least 1.0 U/kg, at least 10 U/kg, at least 100 U/kg, or at least 1000
U/kg. In other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added to the
formulation is at most 0.001 U/kg, at most 0.01 U/kg, at most 0.1 U/kg, at most 1.0 U/kg, at most 10 U/kg, at
most 100 U/kg, or at most 1000 U/kg. In yet other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin
active ingredient added to the formulation is from about 0.001 U/kg to about 1000 U/kg, about 0.01 U/kg to
about 1000 U/kg, about 0.1 U/kg to about 1000 U/kg, or about 1.0 U/kg to about 1000 U/kg.             In still other
aspects of this embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added to the formulation is from
about 0.001 U/kg to about 100 U/kg, about 0.01 U/kg to about 100 U/kg, about 0.1 U/kg to about 100 U/kg, or
                                                       8

     WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
about 1.0 U/kg to about 100 U/kg. As used herein, the term "unit" or "U"is refers to the LD50 dose, which is
defined as the amount of a Clostridial toxin, Clostridial toxin complex or modified Clostridial toxin that killed
50% of the mice injected with the Clostridial toxin, Clostridial toxin complex or modified Clostridial toxin. As
used herein, the term "about" when qualifying a value of a stated item, number, percentage, or term refers to
a range of plus or minus ten percent of the value of the stated item, percentage, parameter, or term.
[025]    In other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added to the
formulation is at least 1.0 pg, at least 10 pg, at least 100 pg, at least 1.0 ng, at least 10 ng, at least 100 ng, at
least 1.0 pg, at least 10 pg, at least 100 pg, orat least 1.0 mg. In still other aspects of this embodiment, the
amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added to the formulation is at most 1.0 pg, at most 10 pg, at most
 100 pg, at most 1.0 ng, at most 10 ng, at most 100 ng, at most 1.0 pg, at most 10 pg, at most 100 pg, or at
most 1.0 mg. In still other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added
to the formulation is about 1.0 pg to about 10 pg, about 10 pg to about 10 pg, about 100 pg to about 10 pg,
about 1.0 ng to about 10 pg, about 10 ng to about 10 pg, or about 100 ng to about 10 pg. In still other aspects
of this embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added to the formulation is about 1.0 pg
to about 1.0 pg, about 10 pg to about 1.0 pg, about 100 pg to about 1.0 pg, about 1.0 ng to about 1.0 pg,
about 10 ng to about 1.0 pg, or about 100 ng to about 1.0 pg. In further aspects of this embodiment, the
amount of Clostridial toxin active ingredient added to the formulation is about 1.0 pg to about 5.0 pg, about 10
pg to about 5.0 pg, about 100 pg to about 5.0 pg, about 1.0 ng to about 5.0 pg, about 10 ng to about 5.0 pg,
or about 100 ng to about 5.0 pg. In further aspects of this embodiment, the amount of Clostridial toxin active
ingredient added to the formulation is about 1.0 pg to about 10 pg, about 10 pg to about 10 pg, about 100 pg
toabout 10 pg, about 1.0 ngtoabout 10 pg, about 10 ng toabout 10 pg,orabout 100 ngtoabout 10 pg.
[026]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a Clostridial toxin as a Clostridial
toxin active ingredient. As used herein, the term "Clostridial toxin" refers to any neurotoxin produced by a
Clostridial toxin strain that can execute the overall cellular mechanism whereby a Clostridial toxin intoxicates a
cell and encompasses the binding of a Clostridial toxin to a low or high affinity Clostridial toxin receptor, the
internalization of the toxin/receptor complex, the translocation of the Clostridial toxin light chain into the
cytoplasm and the enzymatic modification of a Clostridial toxin substrate. Non-limiting examples of Clostridial
toxins include a Botulinum toxin like BoNT/A, a BoNT/B, a BoNT/C 1, a BoNT/D, a BoNT/E, a BoNT/F, a
BoNT/G, a Tetanus toxin (TeNT), a Baratii         toxin (BaNT), and a Butyricum toxin (BuNT).          The BoNT/C 2
cytotoxin and BoNT/C 3 cytotoxin, not being neurotoxins, are excluded from the term "Clostridial toxin."
Clostridial toxins can be obtained from, e.g., List Biological Laboratories, Inc. (Campbell, California), the
Centre for Applied Microbiology and Research (Porton Down, U.K), Wako (Osaka, Japan), and Sigma
Chemicals (St Louis, Missouri). In addition, Clostridial toxins can be produced using standard purification or
recombinant biology techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example, using the Schantz process,
NAPs can be separated out to obtain purified toxin , such as e.g., BoNT/A with an approximately 150 kD
molecular weight with a specific potency of 1-2 X 108 LD5o U/mg or greater, purified BoNT/B with an
approximately 156 kD molecular weight with a specific potency of 1-2 X 108 LD5o U/mg or greater, and purified
BoNT/F with an approximately 155 kD molecular weight with a specific potency of 1-2 X 107 LD50 U/mg or
greater. See Edward J. Schantz & Eric A. Johnson, Properties and use of Botulinum Toxin and Other
                                                        9

     WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
Microbial Neurotoxins in Medicine, Microbiol Rev. 56: 80-99 (1992).           As another example, recombinant
Clostridial toxins can be recombinantly produced as described in Lance E. Steward et al., Optimizing
Expression ofActive Botulinum Toxin Type A, U.S. Patent Publication 2008/0057575; and Lance E. Steward
et al., Optimizing Expression ofActive Botulinum Toxin Type E, U.S. Patent Publication 2008/0138893, each
of which is hereby incorporated in its entirety.
[027]    A Clostridial toxin includes, without limitation, naturally occurring Clostridial toxin variants, such as,
e.g., Clostridial toxin isoforms and Clostridial toxin subtypes; non-naturally occurring Clostridial toxin variants,
such as, e.g., conservative Clostridial toxin variants, non-conservative Clostridial toxin variants, Clostridial
toxin chimeric variants and active Clostridial toxin fragments thereof, or any combination thereof. As used
herein, the term "Clostridial toxin variant," whether naturally-occurring or non-naturally-occurring, refers to a
Clostridial toxin that has at least one amino acid change from the corresponding region of the disclosed
reference sequences (see Table 1) and can be described in percent identity to the corresponding region of
that reference sequence. As non-limiting examples, a BoNT/A variant comprising amino acids 1-1296 of SEQ
ID NO: 1 will have at least one amino acid difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid substitution, deletion or
addition, as compared to the amino acid region 1-1296 of SEQ ID NO: 1; a BoNT/B variant comprising amino
acids 1-1291 of SEQ ID NO: 2 will have at least one amino acid difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid
substitution, deletion or addition, as compared to the amino acid region 1-1291 of SEQ ID NO: 2; a BoNT/C1
variant comprising amino acids 1-1291 of SEQ ID NO: 3 will have at least one amino acid difference, such as,
e.g., an amino acid substitution, deletion or addition, as compared to the amino acid region 1-1291 of SEQ ID
NO: 3; a BoNT/D variant comprising amino acids 1-1276 of SEQ ID NO: 4 will have at least one amino acid
difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid substitution, deletion or addition, as compared to the amino acid
region 1-1276 of SEQ ID NO: 4; a BoNT/E variant comprising amino acids 1-1252 of SEQ ID NO: 5 will have
at least one amino acid difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid substitution, deletion or addition, as
compared to the amino acid region 1-1252 of SEQ ID NO: 5; a BoNT/F variant comprising amino acids 1
1274 of SEQ ID NO: 6 will have at least one amino acid difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid substitution,
deletion or addition, as compared to the amino acid region 1-1274 of SEQ ID NO: 6; a BoNT/G variant
comprising amino acids 1-1297 of SEQ ID NO: 7 will have at least one amino acid difference, such as, e.g.,
an amino acid substitution, deletion or addition, as compared to the amino acid region 1-1297 of SEQ ID NO:
7; a TeNT variant comprising amino acids 1-1315 of SEQ ID NO: 8 will have at least one amino acid
difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid substitution, deletion or addition, as compared to the amino acid
region 1-1315 of SEQ ID NO: 8; a BaNT variant comprising amino acids 1-1268 of SEQ ID NO: 9 will have at
least one amino acid difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid substitution, deletion or addition, as compared
to the amino acid region 1-1268 of SEQ ID NO: 9; and a BuNT variant comprising amino acids 1-1251 of SEQ
ID NO: 10 will have at least one amino acid difference, such as, e.g., an amino acid substitution, deletion or
addition, as compared to the amino acid region 1-1251 of SEQ ID NO: 10.
[028]    Any of a variety of sequence alignment methods can be used to determine percent identity, including,
without limitation, global methods, local methods and hybrid methods, such as, e.g., segment approach
methods. Protocols to determine percent identity are routine procedures within the scope of one skilled in the
art and from the teaching herein.
                                                       10

    WO 2010/090677                                                                       PCT/US2009/067538
[029]     Global methods align sequences from the beginning to the end of the molecule and determine the
best alignment by adding up scores of individual residue pairs and by imposing gap penalties. Non-limiting
methods include, e.g., CLUSTAL W, see, e.g., Julie D. Thompson et al., CLUSTAL W: Improving the
Sensitivity of Progressive Multiple Sequence Alignment Through Sequence Weighting, Position-Specific Gap
Penalties and Weight Matrix Choice, 22(22) Nucleic Acids Research 4673-4680 (1994); and iterative
refinement, see, e.g., Osamu Gotoh, Significant Improvement in Accuracy of Multiple Protein Sequence
Alignments by Iterative Refinement as Assessed by Reference to Structural Alignments, 264(4) J. Mol. Biol.
823-838 (1996).
[030]     Local methods align sequences by identifying one or more conserved motifs shared by all of the input
sequences. Non-limiting methods include, e.g., Match-box, see, e.g., Eric Depiereux and Ernest Feytmans,
Match-Box: A Fundamentally New Algorithm for the Simultaneous Alignment of Several Protein Sequences,
8(5) CABIOS 501-509 (1992); Gibbs sampling, see, e.g., C. E. Lawrence et al., Detecting Subtle Sequence
Signals:A Gibbs Sampling Strategy for Multiple Alignment, 262(5131) Science 208-214 (1993); Align-M, see,
e.g., Ivo Van Walle et al., Align-M-A New Algorithm for Multiple Alignment of Highly Divergent Sequences,
20(9) Bioinformatics,:1428-1435 (2004).
[031]     Hybrid methods combine functional aspects of both global and local alignment methods. Non-limiting
methods include, e.g., segment-to-segment comparison, see, e.g., Burkhard Morgenstern et al., Multiple DNA
and Protein Sequence Alignment Based On Segment-To-Segment Comparison, 93(22) Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci.
U.S.A. 12098-12103 (1996); T-Coffee, see, e.g., C6dric Notredame et al., T-Coffee: A Novel Algorithm for
Multiple Sequence Alignment, 302(1) J. Mol. Biol. 205-217 (2000); MUSCLE, see, e.g., Robert C. Edgar,
MUSCLE: Multiple Sequence Alignment With High Score Accuracy and High Throughput, 32(5) Nucleic Acids
Res. 1792-1797 (2004); and DIALIGN-T, see, e.g., Amarendran R Subramanian et al., DIALIGN-T: An
Improved Algorithm for Segment-Based Multiple Sequence Alignment, 6(1) BMC Bioinformatics 66 (2005).
[032]     Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a Clostridial toxin
as the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. In aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises a BoNT/A, a BoNT/B, a BoNT/C 1 , a BoNT/D, a BoNT/E, a BoNT/F, a BoNT/G, a
TeNT, a BaNT, ora BuNT. In another embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises
a Clostridial toxin variant as the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. In aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises naturally-occurring Clostridial toxin variant or a non-naturally
occurring Clostridial toxin variant. In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises a BoNT/A variant, a BoNT/B variant, a BoNT/Cj variant, a BoNT/D variant, a BoNT/E
variant, a BoNT/F variant, a BoNT/G variant, a TeNT variant, a BaNT variant, or a BuNT variant, where the
variant is either a naturally-occurring variant or a non-naturally-occurring variant.
[033]     In an aspect of this embodiment, a hydrophic amino acid at one particular position in the polypeptide
chain can be substituted with another hydrophic amino acid. Examples of hydrophic amino acids include,
e.g., C, F, I, L, M, V and W. In another aspect of this embodiment, an aliphatic amino acid at one particular
                                                        11

    WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
position in the polypeptide chain can be substituted with another aliphatic amino acid. Examples of aromatic
amino acids include, e.g., A, I, L, P, and V. In yet another aspect of this embodiment, an aliphatic amino acid
at one particular position in the polypeptide chain can be substituted with another aromatic amino acid.
Examples of aromatic amino acids include, e.g., F, H, W and Y. In still another aspect of this embodiment, a
stacking amino acid at one particular position in the polypeptide chain can be substituted with another
stacking amino acid. Examples of stacking amino acids include, e.g., F, H, W and Y. In a further aspect of
this embodiment, a polar amino acid at one particular position in the polypeptide chain can be substituted with
another polar amino acid. Examples of polar amino acids include, e.g., D, E, K, N, Q, and R. In a further
aspect of this embodiment, a less polar or indifferent amino acid at one particular position in the polypeptide
chain can be substituted with another less polar or indifferent amino acid. Examples of less polar or
indifferent amino acids include, e.g., A, H, G, P, S, T, and Y. In a yet further aspect of this embodiment, a
positive charged amino acid at one particular position in the polypeptide chain can be substituted with another
positive charged amino acid. Examples of positive charged amino acids include, e.g., K, R, and H. In a still
further aspect of this embodiment, a negative charged amino acid at one particular position in the polypeptide
chain can be substituted with another negative charged amino acid. Examples of negative charged amino
acids include, e.g., D and E. In another aspect of this embodiment, a small amino acid at one particular
position in the polypeptide chain can be substituted with another small amino acid. Examples of small amino
acids include, e.g., A, D, G, N, P, S, and T. In yet another aspect of this embodiment, a C-beta branching
amino acid at one particular position in the polypeptide chain can be substituted with another C-beta
branching amino acid. Examples of C-beta branching amino acids include, e.g., I, T and V.
[034]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a Clostridial toxin complex as a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient. As used herein, the term "Clostridial toxin complex" refers to a complex
comprising a Clostridial toxin and associated NAPs, such as, e.g., a Botulinum toxin complex, a Tetanus toxin
complex, a Baratii toxin complex, and a Butyricum toxin complex. Non-limiting examples of Clostridial toxin
complexes include those produced by a Clostridium botulinum, such as, e.g., a 900-kDa BoNT/A complex, a
500-kDa BoNT/A complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/A complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/B complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/Cl
complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/D complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/D complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/E complex, and a 300
kDa BoNT/F complex. Clostridial toxin complexes can be purified using the methods described in Schantz,
supra, (1992); Hui Xiang et al., Animal Product Free System and Process for Purifying a Botulinum Toxin,
U.S. Patent 7,354,740, each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Clostridial toxin
complexes can be obtained from, e.g., List Biological Laboratories, Inc. (Campbell, California), the Centre for
Applied Microbiology and Research (Porton Down, U.K), Wako (Osaka, Japan), and Sigma Chemicals (St
Louis, Missouri).
[035]    For example, high quality crystalline BoNT/A complex can be produced from the Hall A strain of
Clostridium botulinum with characteristics of >3 X 10 7 U/mg, an A 260 /A278 of less than 0.60 and a distinct
pattern of banding on gel electrophoresis using the Schantz process. See Schantz, supra, (1992). Generally,
the BoNT/A complex can be isolated and purified from an anaerobic fermentation by cultivating Clostridium
botulinum type A in a suitable medium. Raw toxin can be harvested by precipitation with sulfuric acid and
concentrated by ultramicrofiltration. Purification can be carried out by dissolving the acid precipitate in calcium
                                                      12

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
chloride. The toxin can then be precipitated with cold ethanol. The precipitate can be dissolved in sodium
phosphate buffer and centrifuged. Upon drying there can then be obtained approximately 900 kD crystalline
BoNT/A complex with a specific potency of 3 X 107 LD 50 U/mg or greater.
[036]    Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a Clostridial toxin
complex as the Clostridial toxin active ingredient.        In aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises a BoNT/A complex, a BoNT/B complex, a BoNT/Cj complex, a
BoNT/D complex, a BoNT/E complex, a BoNT/F complex, a BoNT/G complex, a TeNT complex, a BaNT
complex, or a BuNT complex.          In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises a 900-kDa BoNT/A complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/A complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/A
complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/B complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/C1 complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/D complex, a 300-kDa
BoNT/D complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/E complex, or a 300-kDa BoNT/F complex.
[037]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a modified Clostridial toxin as a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient. As used herein, the term "modified Clostridial toxin" refers to any Clostridial
toxin modified in some manner to provide a property or characteristic not present in the unmodified Clostridial
toxin, but can still execute the overall cellular mechanism whereby a Clostridial toxin intoxicates a cell,
including, e.g., the binding of a Clostridial toxin to a low or high affinity Clostridial toxin receptor, the
internalization of the toxin/receptor complex, the translocation of the Clostridial toxin light chain into the
cytoplasm and the enzymatic modification of a Clostridial toxin substrate. Non-limiting examples of Clostridial
toxin variants are described in Steward, L.E. et al., Post-Translational Modifications and Clostridial
Neurotoxins, U.S. Patent 7,223,577; Wei-Jen Lin et al., Neurotoxins with Enhanced Target Specificity, U.S.
Patent 7,273,722; Lance E. Steward et al., Clostridial Neurotoxin Compositions andModified Clostridial Toxin
Neurotoxins, U.S. Patent Publication 2004/0220386; Steward, L.E. et al., Clostridial Toxin Activatable
Clostridial Toxins, U.S. Patent Publication 2007/0166332; Lance E. Steward et al., Modified Clostridial Toxins
With Enhanced Targeting Capabilities For Endogenous Clostridial Toxin Receptor Systems, U.S. Patent
Publication 2008/0096248; Steward, L.E. et al., Modified Clostridial Toxins with Enhanced Translocation
Capability and Enhanced Targeting Activity, U.S. Patent Application No. 11/776,043; Steward, L.E. et al.,
Modified Clostridial Toxins with Enhanced Translocation Capabilities and Altered Targeting Activity For
Clostridial Toxin Target Cells, U.S. Patent Application No. 11/776,052; each of which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety. Steward, L.E. et al., Degradable Clostridial Toxins, U.S. Patent Application No.
12/192,905; each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[038]    Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a modified
Clostridial toxin as the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. In aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises a modified BoNT/A, a modified BoNT/B, a modified BoNT/Cj, a
modified BoNT/D, a modified BoNT/E, a modified BoNT/F, a modified BoNT/G, a modified TeNT, a modified
BaNT, or a modified BuNT.
                                                      13

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
[039]    In another embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a Clostridial toxin
enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, a Clostridial toxin binding domain and an
additional di-leucine motif.
[040]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a re-targeted Clostridial toxin as
a Clostridial toxin active ingredient. As used herein, the term "re-targeted Clostridial toxin" refers to a
Clostridial toxin modified to selectively bind to a non-Clostridial toxin receptor present on a non-Clostridial
toxin target cell, but otherwise execute the remaining intoxication steps of a Clostridial toxin, such as, e.g., the
internalization of the toxin/receptor complex, the translocation of the Clostridial toxin light chain into the
cytoplasm and the enzymatic modification of a Clostridial toxin substrate. A retargeted Clostridial toxin can
intoxicate wither a neuronal cell or a non-neuronal cell, depending on the modification made to the Clostridial
toxin. A re-targeted Clostridial toxin can be a re-targeted Botulinum toxin, re-targeted Tetanus toxin, re
targeted Baratii toxin, and a re-targeted Butyricum toxin. Non-limiting examples of a re-targeted Clostridial
toxin are described in, e.g., Keith A. Foster et al., Clostridial Toxin Derivatives Able To Modify Peripheral
SensoryAfferent Functions, U.S. Patent 5,989,545; Clifford C. Shone et al., Recombinant Toxin Fragments,
U.S. Patent 6,461,617; Conrad P. Quinn et al., Methods and Compounds for the Treatment of Mucus
Hypersecretion, U.S. Patent 6,632,440; Lance E. Steward et al., Methods And Compositions For The
Treatment Of Pancreatitis, U.S. Patent 6,843,998; J. Oliver Dolly et al., Activatable Recombinant Neurotoxins,
U.S. Patent 7,132,259; Stephan Donovan, Clostridial Toxin Derivatives and Methods For Treating Pain, U.S.
Patent Publication 2002/0037833; Keith A. Foster et al., Inhibition of Secretion from Non-neural Cells, U.S.
Patent Publication 2003/0180289; Lance E. Steward et al., Multivalent Clostridial Toxin Derivatives and
Methods of Their Use, U.S. Patent Publication 2006/0211619; Keith A. Foster et al., Non-Cytotoxic Protein
Conjugates, U.S. Patent Publication 2008/0187960; Steward, L.E. et al., Modified Clostridial Toxins with
Enhanced Translocation Capabilities and Altered Targeting Activity For Non-Clostridial Toxin Target Cells,
U.S. Patent Application No. 11/776,075; Keith A. Foster et al., Re-targeted Toxin Conjugates, U.S. Patent
Application No. 11/792,210; each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[041]    Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted
Clostridial toxin as the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. In aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted BoNT/A, a re-targeted BoNT/B, a re-targeted BoNT/C 1,
a re-targeted BoNT/D, a re-targeted BoNT/E, a re-targeted BoNT/F, a re-targeted BoNT/G, a re-targeted
TeNT, a re-targeted BaNT, or a re-targeted BuNT. In another aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises an opiod targeting moiety,
such as, e.g., an enkephalin, an endomorphin, an endorphin, a dynorphin, a nociceptin ora hemorphin. In yet
another aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted
Clostridial toxin comprises a tachykinin targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a Substance P, a neuropeptide K
(NPK), a neuropeptide gamma (NP gamma), a neurokinin A (NKA; Substance K, neurokinin alpha,
neuromedin L), a neurokinin B (NKB), a hemokinin or a endokinin. In still another aspect of this embodiment,
a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises a
melanocortin targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a melanocyte stimulating hormone, adrenocorticotropin, or a
lipotropin.   In still another aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
                                                      14

     WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises a galanin targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a galanin or a
galanin message-associated peptide.          In a further aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises a granin targeting moiety,
such as, e.g., a Chromogranin A, a Chromogranin B, or a a Chromogranin C.              In another aspect of this
embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin
comprises a Neuropeptide Y related peptide targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a Neuropeptide Y, a Peptide YY,
Pancreatic peptide ora Pancreatic icosapeptide. In yet another aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises a neurohormone targeting
moiety, such as, e.g., a corticotropin-releasing hormone, a parathyroid hormone, a thyrotropin-releasing
hormone, or a somatostatin. In still another aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises a neuroregulatory cytokine targeting moiety,
such as, e.g., a ciliary neurotrophic factor, a glycophorin-A, a leukemia inhibitory factor, a cholinergic
differentiation factor, an interleukin, an onostatin M, a cardiotrophin-1, a cardiotrophin-like cytokine, or a
neuroleukin. In a further aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises
a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises a kinin peptide targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a bradykinin, a kallidin,
a desArg9 bradykinin, or a desArg1O bradykinin. In another aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises a fibroblast growth factor
targeting moiety, a nerve growth factor targeting moiety, an insulin growth factor targeting moiety, an
epidermal growth factor targeting moiety, a vascular endothelial growth factor targeting moiety, a brain
derived neurotrophic factor targeting moiety, a growth derived neurotrophic factor targeting moiety, a
neurotrophin targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a neurotrophin-3, a neurotrophin-4/5, a head activator peptide
targeting moiety, a neurturin targeting moiety, a persephrin targeting moiety, an artemin targeting moiety, a
transformation growth factor    P targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a TGFP1, a TGFP2, a TGFP3 or a TGFP4, a
bone morphogenic protein targeting moiety, such as, ie.g., a BMP2, a BMP3, a BMP4, a BMP5, a BMP6, a
BMP7, a BMP8 or a BMP10, a growth differentiation factor targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a GDF1, a GDF2,
a GDF3, a GDF5, a GDF6, a GDF7, a GDF8, a GDF10, a GDF1 1 or a GDF15, or an activin targeting moiety,
such as, e.g., an activin A, an activin B, an activin C, an activin E or an inhibin A. In another aspect of this
embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a re-targeted Clostridial toxin
comprises a glucagon like hormone targeting moiety, such as, e.g., a secretin, a glucagon-like peptide, like a
GLP-1 and a GLP-2, a pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide targeting moiety, a growth hormone
releasing hormone targeting moiety, vasoactive intestinal peptide targeting moiety like a VIP1 or a VIP2, a
gastric inhibitory polypeptide targeting moiety, a calcitonin-related peptidesvisceral gut peptide targeting
moiety like a gastrin, a gastrin-releasing peptide or a cholecystokinin, or a PAR peptide targeting moiety like a
PAR1 peptide, a PAR2 peptide, a PAR3 peptide or a PAR4 peptide.
[042]    In another embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a Clostridial toxin
enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a non-Clostridial toxin binding domain. In
aspects of this embodiment, the single-chain protein comprises a linear amino-to-carboxyl order of 1) the
Clostridial enzymatic domain, the Clostridial translocation domain and the non-Clostridial binding domain; 2)
the Clostridial enzymatic domain, the non-Clostridial binding domain and the Clostridial translocation domain;
3) the non-Clostridial binding domain, the Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and the Clostridial toxin
                                                     15

    WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
enzymatic domain; 4) the non-Clostridial binding domain, the Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, and the
Clostridial toxin translocation domain; 5) the Clostridial toxin translocation domain, the Clostridial toxin
enzymatic domain and the non-Clostridial binding domain; or 6) the Clostridial toxin translocation domain, the
non-Clostridial binding domain and the Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain.
[043]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an opioid binding domain. In
further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a Clostridial
toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an enkephalin binding domain; 2) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a bovine adrenomedullary-22
(BAM22) peptide binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation
domain, and an endomorphin binding domain; 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and an endorphin binding domain; 5) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial
toxin translocation domain, and a dynorphin binding domain; 6) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a
Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a nociceptin binding domain; 7) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic
domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a hemorphin binding domain; or 8) a Clostridial toxin
enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a rimorphin binding domain.
[044]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a melanocortin peptide
binding domain.     In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a melanocyte
stimulating hormone binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation
domain, and an adrenocorticotropin binding domain; or 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial
toxin translocation domain, and a lipotropin binding domain.
[045]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a galanin peptide binding
domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a galanin binding domain; or
2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a galanin message
associated peptide (GMAP) binding domain.
[046]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a granin peptide binding
domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a chromogranin A binding
domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a chromogranin
B binding domain; or 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
chromogranin C binding domain.
                                                      16

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
[047]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a tachykinin peptide binding
domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Substance P binding
domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a neuropeptide
K binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
neuropeptide gamma binding domain; 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation
domain, and a neurokinin A binding domain; 5) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a hemokinin binding domain; or 6) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a
Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an endokinin binding domain.
[048]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Neuropeptide Y related
peptide binding domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
neuropeptide Y (NPY) binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation
domain, and a Peptide YY (PYY) binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a Pancreatic peptide (PP) binding domain; or 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic
domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Pancreatic icosapeptide (PIP) binding domain.
[049]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a neurohormone peptide
binding domain.       In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
corticotropin-releasing hormone (CCRH) binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial
toxin translocation domain, and a parathyroid hormone (PTH) binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic
domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) binding domain;
or 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a somatostatin binding
domain.
[050]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a cytokine peptide binding
domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a ciliary neurotrophic factor
(CNTF) binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and
a glycophorin-A (GPA) binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) binding domain; 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic
domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an interleukin (IL) binding domain; 5) a Clostridial toxin
enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an onostatin M binding domain; 6) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1)
binding domain; 7) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
                                                      17

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
cardiotrophin-like cytokine (CLC) binding domain; 8) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a neuroleukin binding domain.
[051]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a kinin peptide binding
domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a bradykinin binding domain;
2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a kallidin binding domain;
3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a desArg9 bradykinin
binding domain; or 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
desArg10 bradykinin binding domain.
[052]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Fibroblast growth factor
(FGF) peptide binding domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
FGF-1 binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
FGF-2 binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
FGF-4 binding domain; 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
FGF-8 binding domain; 5) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
FGF-9 binding domain; 6) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
FGF-17 binding domain; or 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain,
and a FGF-18 binding domain.
[053]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a neurotrophin peptide
binding domain.      In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a nerve
growth factor (NGF) binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation
domain, and a brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic
domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) binding domain; 4) a Clostridial
toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5) binding
domain; or 5) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a head
activator peptide (HA) binding domain.
[054]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a tumor necrosis factor (TNF)
peptide binding domain.
[055]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Glial derived growth factor
                                                      18

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
(GDNF) peptide binding domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
neurturin binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and
a persephrin binding domain; or 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation
domain, and an artemin binding domain.
[056]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Transformation growth
factor  P  (TGFP) peptide binding domain.         In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a TGFp1 binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a TGFp2 binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a TGFp3 binding domain; or 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial
toxin translocation domain, and a TGFp4 binding domain.
[057]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Bone morphogenetic
protein  P  (BMP) peptide binding domain.         In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a BMP2 binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a BMP3 binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a BMP4 binding domain; 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a BMP5 binding domain; 5) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a BMP6 binding domain; 6) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a BMP7 binding domain; 7) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a BMP8 binding domain; or 8) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial
toxin translocation domain, and a BMP10 binding domain.
[058]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Growth and differentiation
factor  P  (GDF) peptide binding domain.         In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF1 binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF2 binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF3 binding domain; 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF5 binding domain; 5) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF6 binding domain; 6) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF7 binding domain; 7) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF8 binding domain; 8) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a GDF10 binding domain; 9) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial
                                                      19

    WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
toxin translocation domain, and a GDF11 binding domain; or 10) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a
Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a GDF15 binding domain.
[059]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an activin peptide binding
domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an activin A binding domain;
2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an activin B binding
domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an activin C
binding domain; 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an
activin E binding domain; or 5) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain,
and an inhibin A binding domain.
[060]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) peptide binding domain.
[061]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an insulin growth factor (IGF)
peptide binding domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an IGF-1
binding domain; or 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an
IGF-2 binding domain.
[062]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and an Epidermal growth factor
(EGF) peptide binding domain.
[063]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Glucagon like hormone
peptide binding domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a secretin
binding domain; or 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
glucagon-like peptide binding domain.
[064]    In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Pituitary adenylate cyclase
activating peptide (PACAP) peptide binding domain.
                                                      20

    WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
[065]     In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Growth hormone-releasing
hormone (GHRH) peptide binding domain.
[066]     In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Growth hormone-releasing
hormone (GHRH) peptide binding domain.
[067]     In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Vasoactive intestinal
peptide (VIP) peptide binding domain.          In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a VIP1 binding domain; or 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial
toxin translocation domain, and a VIP2 binding domain.
[068]     In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Gastric inhibitory
polypeptide (GIP) peptide binding domain.
[069]     In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a Calcitonin-related
peptidesvisceral gut peptide binding domain.       In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a gastrin binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin
translocation domain, and a gastrin-releasing peptide binding domain; or 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic
domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a cholecystokinin (CCK) binding domain.
[070]     In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a
Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a protease activated receptor
(PAR) peptide binding domain. In further aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises 1) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
PAR1 binding domain; 2) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
PAR2 binding domain; 3) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and a
PAR3 binding domain; or 4) a Clostridial toxin enzymatic domain, a Clostridial toxin translocation domain, and
a PAR4 binding domain.
[071]     Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a pharmacologically acceptable
excipient.    As used herein, the term "pharmacologically acceptable excipient" is synonymous with
"pharmacological excipient" or "excipient" and refers to any excipient that has substantially no long term or
permanent detrimental effect when administered to mammal and encompasses compounds such as, e.g.,
stabilizing agent, a bulking agent, a cryo-protectant, a lyo-protectant, an additive, a vehicle, a carrier, a
                                                     21

     WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
diluent, or an auxiliary. An excipient generally is mixed with an active ingredient, or permitted to dilute or
enclose the active ingredient and can be a solid, semi-solid, or liquid agent. It is also envisioned that a
pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient can include one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients that facilitate processing of an active ingredient into pharmaceutically
acceptable compositions. Insofar as any pharmacologically acceptable excipient is not incompatible with the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient, its use in pharmaceutically acceptable compositions is contemplated. Non
limiting examples of pharmacologically acceptable excipients can be found in, e.g., Pharmaceutical Dosage
Forms and Drug Delivery Systems (Howard C. Ansel et al., eds., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Publishers, 7 th
ed. 1999); Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy (Alfonso R. Gennaro ed., Lippincott, Williams &
Wilkins, 20th ed. 2000); Goodman & Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics (Joel G. Hardman
et al., eds., McGraw-Hill Professional, 10th ed. 2001); and Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients (Raymond
C. Rowe et al., APhA Publications,      4 th edition 2003), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
[072]     Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, an effective amount." As used
herein, the term "effective amount," when used in reference to the amount of an excipient or specific
combination of excipients added to a Clostridial toxin composition, refers to the amount of each excipient that
is necessary to achieve the desired initial recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient. In aspects
of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient or combination of excipients results in an initial
recovered potency of, e.g., at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%,
at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90% or at least 100%.               In other aspects of this embodiment, a
therapeutically effective concentration of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient reduces a symptom associated
with the aliment being treated by, e.g., at most 10%, at most 20%,at most 30%, at most 40%, at most 50%, at
most 60%, at most 70%, at most 80%, at most 90% or at most 100%.
[073]     In yet other aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at least 0.1 mg,
at least 0.125 mg, at least 0.2 mg, at least 0.25 mg, at least 0.3 mg, at least 0.3125 mg, at least 0.4 mg, at
least 0.5 mg, at least 0.6 mg, at least 0.625 mg, at least 0.7 mg, at least 0.8 mg, or at least 0.9 mg. In still
aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at least 1.0 mg, at least 2.0 mg, at
least 3.0 mg, at least 4.0 mg, at least 5.0 mg, at least 6.0 mg, at least 7.0 mg, at least 8.0 mg, or at least 9.0
mg. In further aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at least 10 mg, at least
20 mg, at least 30 mg, at least 40 mg, at least 50 mg, at least 60 mg, at least 70 mg, at least 80 mg, at least
90 mg, or at least 100 mg.
[074]     In yet other aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at most 0.1 mg,
at most 0.125 mg, at most 0.2 mg, at most 0.25 mg, at most 0.3 mg, at most 0.3125 mg, at most 0.4 mg, at
most 0.5 mg, at most 0.6 mg, at most 0.625 mg, at most 0.7 mg, at most 0.8 mg, or at most 0.9 mg. In still
aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at most 1.0 mg, at most 2.0 mg, at
most 3.0 mg, at most 4.0 mg, at most 5.0 mg, at most 6.0 mg, at most 7.0 mg, at most 8.0 mg, or at most 9.0
mg. In further aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at most 10 mg, at most
                                                         22

     WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
20 mg, at most 30 mg, at most 40 mg, at most 50 mg, at most 60 mg, at most 70 mg, at most 80 mg, at most
90 mg, or at most 100 mg.
[075]     In yet other aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., from about 0.1
mg to about 100 mg, from about 0.1 mg to about 50 mg, from about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg, from about 0.25
mg to about 100 mg, from about 0.25 mg to about 50 mg, from about 0.25 mg to about 10 mg, from about
0.5 mg to about 100 mg, from about 0.5 mg to about 50 mg, from about 0.5 mg to about 10 mg, from about
0.75 mg to about 100 mg, from about 0.75 mg to about 50 mg, from about 0.75 mg to about 10 mg, from
about 1.0 mg to about 100 mg, from about 1.0 mg to about 50 mg, orfrom about 1.0 mg to about 10 mg.
[076]     In yet other aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at least 0.001 %,
at least 0.002%, at least 0.003%, at least 0.004%, at least 0.005%, at least 0.006%, at least 0.007%, at least
0.008%, or at least 0.009%. In still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is,
e.g., at least 0.01 %, at least 0.02%, at least 0.03%, at least 0.04%, at least 0.05%, at least 0.06%, at least
0.07%, at least 0.08%, or at least 0.09%.       In still aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an
excipient is, e.g., at least 0.1%, at least 0.2%, at least 0.3%, at least 0.4%, at least 0.5%, at least 0.6%, at
least 0.7%, at least 0.8%, or at least 0.9%. In further aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an
excipient is, e.g., at least 1%, at least 2%, at least 3%, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6%, at least 7%, at
least 8%, or at least 9%.
[077]     In yet otheraspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., at most 0.001 %,
at most 0.002%, at most 0.003%, at most 0.004%, at most 0.005%, at most 0.006%, at most 0.007%, at most
0.008%, or at most 0.009%. In still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is,
e.g., at most 0.01 %, at most 0.02%, at most 0.03%, at most 0.04%, at most 0.05%, at most 0.06%, at most
0.07%, at most 0.08%, or at most 0.09%.         In still aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an
excipient is, e.g., at most 0.1%, at most 0.2%, at most 0.3%, at most 0.4%, at most 0.5%, at most 0.6%, at
most 0.7%, at most 0.8%, or at most 0.9%. In further aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an
excipient is, e.g., at most 1%, at most 2%, at most 3%, at most 4%, at most 5%, at most 6%, at most 7%, at
most 8%, or at most 9%.
[078]     In still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective amount of an excipient is, e.g., from about
0.001% to about 0.01%, from about 0.001% to about 0.1%, from about 0.001% to about 1%, from about
0.001% toabout 10%, from about 0.01% to about 0.1%, from about 0.01% to about 1%, from about 0.01% to
about 10%, from about 0.1% to about 1%, or from about 0.1% to about 10%.
[079]     Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, non-protein excipient. As used
herein, the term "non-protein excipient" refers to any excipient that is not a polypeptide comprising at least
fifteen amino acids. It is envisioned that any non-protein excipient is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically
effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this non-protein excipient.
                                                        23

     WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
[080]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a sugar. As used herein, the
term "sugar" refers to a compound comprising one to 10 monosaccharide units, e.g., a monosaccharide, a
disaccharide, a trisaccharide, and an oligosaccharide comprising four to ten monosaccharide units. It is
envisioned that any sugar is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in
the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient is recovered using this sugar.       Monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes or polyhydroxy
ketones with three or more carbon atoms, including aldoses, dialdoses, aldoketoses, ketoses and diketoses,
as well as cyclic forms, deoxy sugars and amino sugars, and their derivatives, provided that the parent
monosaccharide has a (potential) carbonyl group. Monosacchrides include trioses, like glyceraldehyde and
dihydroxyacetone; tetroses, like erythrose, erythrulose and threose; pentoses, like arabinose, lyxose, ribose,
ribulose, xylose, xylulose; hexoses, like allose, altrose, fructose, fucosegalactose, glucose, gulose, idose,
mannose, psicose, rhamnose, sorbose, tagatose, talose and trehalose; heptoses, like sedoheptulose and
mannoheptulose; octooses, like octulose and 2-keto-3-deoxy-manno-octonate; nonoses like sialose; and
decose.      Oligosaccharides are compounds in which at least two monosaccharide units are joined by
glycosidic linkages.      According to the number of units, they are called disaccharides, trisaccharides,
tetrasaccharides, pentasaccharides, hexoaccharides, heptoaccharides, octoaccharides, nonoaccharides,
decoaccharides, etc. An oligosaccharide can be unbranched, branched or cyclic. Common disaccharides
include, without limitation, sucrose, lactose, maltose, trehalose, cellobiose, gentiobiose, kojibiose,
laminaribiose, mannobiose, melibiose, nigerose, rutinose, and xylobiose. Common trisaccharides include,
without limitation, raffinose, acarbose, maltotriose, and melezitose. Other non-limiting examples of specific
uses of sugar excipients can be found in, e.g., ANSEL, SUPRA, (1999); GENNARO, SUPRA, (2000); HARDMAN,
SUPRA, (2001); AND ROWE, SUPRA, (2003), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[081]     Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a sugar.                In
aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a monosaccharide. In
other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a disaccharide, a
trisaccharide, a tetrasaccharide, a pentasaccharide, a hexoaccharide, a heptoaccharide, an octoaccharide, a
nonoaccharide, or a decoaccharide.           In yet other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprises an oligosaccharide comprising two to ten monosaccharide units.
[082]     It is envisioned that any amount of sugar is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this sugar amount. In aspects of this embodiment,
the amount of sugar added to the formulation is about 0.1% (w/v), about 0.5% (w/v), about 1.0% (w/v), about
1.5% (w/v), about 2.0% (w/v), about 2.5% (w/v), about 3.0% (w/v), about 3.5% (w/v), about 4.0% (w/v), about
4.5% (w/v), about 5.0% (w/v), about 5.5% (w/v), about 6.0% (w/v), about 6.5% (w/v), about 7.0% (w/v), about
7.5% (w/v), about 8.0% (w/v), about 8.5% (w/v), about 9.0% (w/v), about 9.5% (w/v), about 10% (w/v), about
15% (w/v), about 20% (w/v), about 25% (w/v), about 30% (w/v), or about 35% (w/v). In other aspects of this
embodiment, the amount of sugar added to the formulation is at least 0.1% (w/v), at least 0.5% (w/v), at least
1.0% (w/v), at least 1.5% (w/v), at least 2.0% (w/v), at least 2.5% (w/v), at least 3.0% (w/v), at least 3.5%
(w/v), at least 4.0% (w/v), at least 4.5% (w/v), at least 5.0% (w/v), at least 5.5% (w/v), at least 6.0% (w/v), at
least 6.5% (w/v), at least 7.0% (w/v), at least 7.5% (w/v), at least 8.0% (w/v), at least 8.5% (w/v), at least 9.0%
                                                      24

    WO 2010/090677                                                                            PCT/US2009/067538
(w/v), at least 9.5% (w/v), at least 10% (w/v), at least 15% (w/v), at least 20% (w/v), at least 25% (w/v), at
least 30% (w/v), or at least 35% (w/v). In yet other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of sugar added to
the formulation is at most 0.1% (w/v), at most 0.5% (w/v), at most 1.0% (w/v), at most 1.5% (w/v), at most
2.0% (w/v), at most 2.5% (w/v), at most 3.0% (w/v), at most 3.5% (w/v), at most 4.0% (w/v), at most 4.5%
(w/v), at most 5.0% (w/v), at most 5.5% (w/v), at most 6.0% (w/v), at most 6.5% (w/v), at most 7.0% (w/v), at
most 7.5% (w/v), at most 8.0% (w/v), at most 8.5% (w/v), at most 9.0% (w/v), at most 9.5% (w/v), at most 10%
(w/v), at most 15% (w/v), at most 20% (w/v), at most 25% (w/v), at most 30% (w/v), or at most 35% (w/v).
[083]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a polyol. As used herein, the
term "polyol" is synonymous with "sugar alcohol," "polyhydric alcohol," and "polyalcohol" and refers to a sugar
derivative having an alcohol group (CH 2OH) instead of the aldehyde group (CHO), such as, e.g., mannitol
from mannose, xylitol from xylose, and lactitol from lactulose. It is envisioned that any polyol is useful in
formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the
proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this
polyol. Non-limiting examples of polyols include, glycol, glycerol, arabitol, erythritol, xylitol, maltitol, sorbitol
(gluctiol), mannitol, inositol, lactitol, galactitol (iditol), isomalt. Other non-limiting examples of sugar excipients
can be found in, e.g., Ansel, supra, (1999); Gennaro, supra, (2000); Hardman, supra, (2001); and Rowe,
supra, (2003), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[084]     Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a polyol.                        In
aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises glycol, glycerol,
arabitol, erythritol, xylitol, maltitol, sorbitol (gluctiol), mannitol, inositol, lactitol, galactitol (iditol), or isomalt.
[085]     It is envisioned that any amount of polyol is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this polyol amount. In aspects of this embodiment,
the amount of polyol added to the formulation is about 0.1% (w/v), about 0.5% (w/v), about 1.0% (w/v), about
 1.5% (w/v), about 2.0% (w/v), about 2.5% (w/v), about 3.0% (w/v), about 3.5% (w/v), about 4.0% (w/v), about
4.5% (w/v), about 5.0% (w/v), about 5.5% (w/v), about 6.0% (w/v), about 6.5% (w/v), about 7.0% (w/v), about
7.5% (w/v), about 8.0% (w/v), about 8.5% (w/v), about 9.0% (w/v), about 9.5% (w/v), about 10% (w/v), about
 15% (w/v), about 20% (w/v), about 25% (w/v), about 30% (w/v), or about 35% (w/v). In other aspects of this
embodiment, the amount of polyol added to the formulation is at least 0.1% (w/v), at least 0.5% (w/v), at least
 1.0% (w/v), at least 1.5% (w/v), at least 2.0% (w/v), at least 2.5% (w/v), at least 3.0% (w/v), at least 3.5%
(w/v), at least 4.0% (w/v), at least 4.5% (w/v), at least 5.0% (w/v), at least 5.5% (w/v), at least 6.0% (w/v), at
least 6.5% (w/v), at least 7.0% (w/v), at least 7.5% (w/v), at least 8.0% (w/v), at least 8.5% (w/v), at least 9.0%
(w/v), at least 9.5% (w/v), at least 10% (w/v), at least 15% (w/v), at least 20% (w/v), at least 25% (w/v), at
least 30% (w/v), or at least 35% (w/v). In yet other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of polyol added to
the formulation is at most 0.1% (w/v), at most 0.5% (w/v), at most 1.0% (w/v), at most 1.5% (w/v), at most
2.0% (w/v), at most 2.5% (w/v), at most 3.0% (w/v), at most 3.5% (w/v), at most 4.0% (w/v), at most 4.5%
(w/v), at most 5.0% (w/v), at most 5.5% (w/v), at most 6.0% (w/v), at most 6.5% (w/v), at most 7.0% (w/v), at
most 7.5% (w/v), at most 8.0% (w/v), at most 8.5% (w/v), at most 9.0% (w/v), at most 9.5% (w/v), at most 10%
(w/v), at most 15% (w/v), at most 20% (w/v), at most 25% (w/v), at most 30% (w/v), or at most 35% (w/v).
                                                            25

     WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
[086]     Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a polymer. As used herein, the
term "polymer" refers to high molecular weight compounds comprising at least eleven monomeric units.
Polymers consisting of only one kind of repeating unit are called homopolymers, whereas polymers formed
from two or more different repeating units and called copolymers. A polymer can be natural or synthetic.
Non-limiting examples of polymers include polysaccharides, such as, e.g., dextrans (like dextran 1K, dextran
4K, dextran 40K, dextran 60K, and dextran 70K), dextrin, glycogen, inulin, starch, starch derivatives (like
hydroxymethyl starch, hydroxyethyl starch, hydroxypropyl starch, hydroxybutyl starch, and hydroxypentyl
starch), hetastarch, cellulose, FICOLL, methyl cellulose (MC), carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC), hydroxyethyl
cellulose (HEC), hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC), hydroxyethyl methyl cellulose (HEMC), hydroxypropyl methyl
cellulose (HPMC); polyvinyl acetates (PVA); polyvinyl pyrrolidones (PVP), also known as povidones, having a
K-value of less than or equal to 18, a K-value greater than 18 or less than or equal to 95, or a K-value greater
than 95, like PVP 12 (KOLLIDON* 12), PVP 17 (KOLLIDON * 17), PVP 25 (KOLLIDON * 25), PVP 30
(KOLLIDON         30), PVP 90 (KOLLIDON* 90); polyethylene glycols like PEG 100, PEG 200, PEG 300, PEG
400, PEG 500, PEG 600, PEG 700, PEG 800, PEG 900, PEG 1000, PEG 1100, PEG 1200, PEG 1300, PEG
 1400, PEG 1500, PEG 1600, PEG 1700, PEG 1800, PEG 1900, PEG 2000, PEG 2100, PEG 2200, PEG
2300, PEG 2400, PEG 2500, PEG 2600, PEG 2700, PEG 2800, PEG 2900, PEG 3000, PEG 3250, PEG
3350, PEG 3500, PEG 3750, PEG 4000, PEG 4250, PEG 4500, PEG 4750, PEG 5000, PEG 5500, PEG
6000, PEG 6500, PEG 75000, PEG 7500, or PEG 8000; and polyethylene mines (PEI); polypeptides
(proteins) like bovine serum albumin, gelatin, and ovalbumin; polynucleotides like DNA and RNA. Other non
limiting examples of polymer excipients can be found in, e.g., Ansel, supra, (1999); Gennaro, supra, (2000);
Hardman, supra, (2001); and Rowe, supra, (2003), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
[087]     It is envisioned that any non-protein polymer is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this non-protein polymer. Thus in an embodiment, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a non-protein polymer.                In an aspect of this
embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a polysaccharide. In aspects of this
embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a dextran, an inulin, a starch, a starch
derivative, a hetastarch, a dextrin, a glycogen, a cellulose, FICOLL, a methyl cellulose (MC), a carboxymethyl
cellulose (CMC), a hydroxyethyl cellulose (HEC), a hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC), a hydroxyethyl methyl
cellulose (HEMC), or a hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose (HPMC).            In another aspect of this embodiment, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a polyvinyl acetate.             In another aspect of this
embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a polyvinylpyrrolidone. In aspects of
this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises dextran 1K, dextran 4K, dextran
40K, dextran 60K, or dextran 70K. In another aspect of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprises PVP 12, PVP 17, PVP 25, PVP 30, or PVP 90.                    In yet another aspect of this
embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a polyethylene glycol. In an aspect of
this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a room temperature solid PEG. In
aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises PEG 1000, PEG 1100,
                                                     26

     WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
PEG 1200, PEG 1300, PEG 1400, PEG 1500, PEG 1600, PEG 1700, PEG 1800, PEG 1900, PEG 2000,
PEG 2100, PEG 2200, PEG 2300, PEG 2400, PEG 2500, PEG 2600, PEG 2700, PEG 2800, PEG 2900,
PEG 3000, PEG 3250, PEG 3350, PEG 3500, PEG 3750, PEG 4000, PEG 4250, PEG 4500, PEG 4750,
PEG 5000, PEG 5500, PEG 6000, PEG 6500, PEG 75000, PEG 7500, or PEG 8000. In another aspect of
this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a polyethylene mine.
[088]     It is envisioned that any amount of non-protein polymer is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically
effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this non-protein polymer amount.
In aspects of this embodiment, the amount of non-protein polymer added to the formulation is about 0.1%
(w/v), about 0.5% (w/v), about 1.0% (w/v), about 1.5% (w/v), about 2.0% (w/v), about 2.5% (w/v), about 3.0%
(w/v), about 3.5% (w/v), about 4.0% (w/v), about 4.5% (w/v), about 5.0% (w/v), about 5.5% (w/v), about 6.0%
(w/v), about 6.5% (w/v), about 7.0% (w/v), about 7.5% (w/v), about 8.0% (w/v), about 8.5% (w/v), about 9.0%
(w/v), about 9.5% (w/v), about 10% (w/v), about 15% (w/v), about 20% (w/v), about 25% (w/v), about 30%
(w/v), or about 35% (w/v). In other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of non-protein polymer added to
the formulation is at least 0.1% (w/v), at least 0.5% (w/v), at least 1.0% (w/v), at least 1.5% (w/v), at least
2.0% (w/v), at least 2.5% (w/v), at least 3.0% (w/v), at least 3.5% (w/v), at least 4.0% (w/v), at least 4.5%
(w/v), at least 5.0% (w/v), at least 5.5% (w/v), at least 6.0% (w/v), at least 6.5% (w/v), at least 7.0% (w/v), at
least 7.5% (w/v), at least 8.0% (w/v), at least 8.5% (w/v), at least 9.0% (w/v), at least 9.5% (w/v), at least 10%
(w/v), at least 15% (w/v), at least 20% (w/v), at least 25% (w/v), at least 30% (w/v), or at least 35% (w/v). In
yet other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of non-protein polymer added to the formulation is at most
0.10% (w/v), at most 0.5% (w/v), at most 1.0% (w/v), at most 1.5% (w/v), at most 2.0% (w/v), at most 2.5%
(w/v), at most 3.0% (w/v), at most 3.5% (w/v), at most 4.0% (w/v), at most 4.5% (w/v), at most 5.0% (w/v), at
most 5.5% (w/v), at most 6.0% (w/v), at most 6.5% (w/v), at most 7.0% (w/v), at most 7.5% (w/v), at most
8.0% (w/v), at most 8.5% (w/v), at most 9.0% (w/v), at most 9.5% (w/v), at most 10% (w/v), at most 15% (w/v),
at most 20% (w/v), at most 25% (w/v), at most 30% (w/v), or at most 35% (w/v).
[089]    Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a surfactant. As used hereon,
the term "surfactant" refers to a natural or synthetic amphiphilic compound. A surfactant can be non-ionic,
zwitterionic, or ionic.      It is envisioned that any surfactant is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically
effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this surfactant amount. Non
limiting examples of surfactants include polysorbates like polysorbate 20 (TWEEN* 20), polysorbate 40
(TWEEN* 40), polysorbate 60 (TWEEN* 60), polysorbate 61 (TWEEN* 61), polysorbate 65 (TWEEN' 65),
polysorbate 80 (TWEEN* 80), and polysorbate 81 (TWEEN* 81); poloxamers (polyethylene-polypropylene
copolymers), like Poloxamer 124 (PLURONIC* L44), Poloxamer 181 (PLURONIC* L61), Poloxamer 182
(PLURONIC* L62), Poloxamer 184 (PLURONIC* L64), Poloxamer 188 (PLURONIC*F68), Poloxamer 237
(PLURONIC*        F87),     Poloxamer 338 (PLURONIC*          L108), Poloxamer 407 (PLURONIC*               F127),
polyoxyethyleneglycol dodecyl ethers, like BRIJ* 30, and BRIJO 35; 2-dodecoxyethanol (LUBROL*-PX);
polyoxyethylene       octyl    phenyl   ether (TRITON*     X-100);   sodium    dodecyl     sulfate (SDS);    3-[(3
Cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPS); 3-[(3-Cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]
                                                      27

     WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
2-hydroxy-1-propanesulfonate (CHAPSO); sucrose monolaurate; and sodium cholate. Other non-limiting
examples of surfactant excipients can be found in, e.g., Ansel, supra, (1999); Gennaro, supra, (2000);
Hardman, supra, (2001); and Rowe, supra, (2003), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
[090]     Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a surfactant. In
aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a polysorbate, a
poloxamer, a polyoxyethyleneglycol dodecyl ether, 2-dodecoxyethanol , polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether,
sodium         dodecyl     sulfate,   3-[(3-Cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate,              3-[(3
Cholamidopropyl) dimethylammonio]-2-hydroxy-1-propanesulfonate, sucrose monolaurate; or sodium cholate.
[091]     It is envisioned that any amount of surfactant is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this surfactant amount.                In aspects of this
embodiment, the amount of surfactant added to the formulation is about 0.01% (w/v), about 0.02% (w/v),
about 0.03% (w/v), about 0.04% (w/v), about 0.05% (w/v), about 0.06% (w/v), about 0.07% (w/v), about
0.08% (w/v), about 0.09% (w/v), about 0.1% (w/v), about 0.5% (w/v), about 1.0% (w/v), about 1.5% (w/v),
about 2.0% (w/v), about 2.5% (w/v), about 3.0% (w/v), about 3.5% (w/v), about 4.0% (w/v), about 4.5% (w/v),
about 5.0% (w/v), about 5.5% (w/v), about 6.0% (w/v), about 6.5% (w/v), about 7.0% (w/v), about 7.5% (w/v),
about 8.0% (w/v), about 8.5% (w/v), about 9.0% (w/v), about 9.5% (w/v), about 10% (w/v), about 15% (w/v),
about 20% (w/v), about 25% (w/v), about 30% (w/v), or about 35% (w/v).                    In other aspects of this
embodiment, the amount of surfactant added to the formulation is at least 0.01% (w/v), at least 0.02% (w/v),
at least 0.03% (w/v), at least 0.04% (w/v), at least 0.05% (w/v), at least 0.06% (w/v), at least 0.07% (w/v), at
least 0.08% (w/v), at least 0.09% (w/v), at least 0.1% (w/v), at least 0.5% (w/v), at least 1.0% (w/v), at least
1.5% (w/v), at least 2.0% (w/v), at least 2.5% (w/v), at least 3.0% (w/v), at least 3.5% (w/v), at least 4.0%
(w/v), at least 4.5% (w/v), at least 5.0% (w/v), at least 5.5% (w/v), at least 6.0% (w/v), at least 6.5% (w/v), at
least 7.0% (w/v), at least 7.5% (w/v), at least 8.0% (w/v), at least 8.5% (w/v), at least 9.0% (w/v), at least 9.5%
(w/v), at least 10% (w/v), at least 15% (w/v), at least 20% (w/v), at least 25% (w/v), at least 30% (w/v), or at
least 35% (w/v). In yet other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of surfactant added to the formulation is
at most 0.01% (w/v), at most 0.02% (w/v), at most 0.03% (w/v), at most 0.04% (w/v), at most 0.05% (w/v), at
most 0.06% (w/v), at most 0.07% (w/v), at most 0.08% (w/v), at most 0.09% (w/v), at most 0.1% (w/v), at most
0.5% (w/v), at most 1.0% (w/v), at most 1.5% (w/v), at most 2.0% (w/v), at most 2.5% (w/v), at most 3.0%
(w/v), at most 3.5% (w/v), at most 4.0% (w/v), at most 4.5% (w/v), at most 5.0% (w/v), at most 5.5% (w/v), at
most 6.0% (w/v), at most 6.5% (w/v), at most 7.0% (w/v), at most 7.5% (w/v), at most 8.0% (w/v), at most
8.5% (w/v), at most 9.0% (w/v), at most 9.5% (w/v), at most 10% (w/v), at most 15% (w/v), at most 20% (w/v),
at most 25% (w/v), at most 30% (w/v), or at most 35% (w/v).
[092]     In aspects of this embodiment, the amount of surfactant added to the formulation is about 0.01%
(v/v), about 0.02% (v/v), about 0.03% (v/v), about 0.04% (v/v), about 0.05% (v/v), about 0.06% (v/v), about
0.07% (v/v), about 0.08% (v/v), about 0.09% (v/v), about 0.1% (v/v), about 0.5% (v/v), about 1.0% (v/v), about
                                                      28

     WO 2010/090677                                                                       PCT/US2009/067538
 1.5% (v/v), about 2.0% (v/v), about 2.5% (v/v), about 3.0% (v/v), about 3.5% (v/v), about 4.0% (v/v), about
4.5% (v/v), about 5.0% (v/v), about 5.5% (v/v), about 6.0% (v/v), about 6.5% (v/v), about 7.0% (v/v), about
7.5% (v/v), about 8.0% (v/v), about 8.5% (v/v), about 9.0% (v/v), about 9.5% (vlv), about 10% (v/v), about
 15% (v/v), about 20% (v/v), about 25% (v/v), about 30% (vlv), or about 35% (v/v). In other aspects of this
embodiment, the amount of surfactant added to the formulation is at least 0.01% (v/v), at least 0.02% (v/v), at
least 0.03% (v/v), at least 0.04% (v/v), at least 0.05% (v/v), at least 0.06% (v/v), at least 0.07% (vlv), at least
0.08% (v/v), at least 0.09% (v/v), at least 0.1% (v/v), at least 0.5% (v/v), at least 1.0% (v/v), at least 1.5%
(v/v), at least 2.0% (v/v), at least 2.5% (v/v), at least 3.0% (v/v), at least 3.5% (v/v), at least 4.0% (v/v), at least
4.5% (v/v), at least 5.0% (v/v), at least 5.5% (v/v), at least 6.0% (v/v), at least 6.5% (v/v), at least 7.0% (v/v),
at least 7.5% (v/v), at least 8.0% (v/v), at least 8.5% (v/v), at least 9.0% (v/v), at least 9.5% (v/v), at least 10%
(v/v), at least 15% (v/v), at least 20% (v/v), at least 25% (v/v), at least 30% (v/v), or at least 35% (v/v). In yet
other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of surfactant added to the formulation is at most 0.01% (v/v), at
most 0.02% (v/v), at most 0.03% (v/v), at most 0.04% (v/v), at most 0.05% (v/v), at most 0.06% (vlv), at most
0.07% (v/v), at most 0.08% (v/v), at most 0.09% (v/v), at most 0.1% (v/v), at most 0.5% (v/v), at most 1.0%
(v/v), at most 1.5% (v/v), at most 2.0% (v/v), at most 2.5% (v/v), at most 3.0% (v/v), at most 3.5% (v/v), at
most 4.0% (vlv), at most 4.5% (v/v), at most 5.0% (vlv), at most 5.5% (v/v), at most 6.0% (v/v), at most 6.5%
(v/v), at most 7.0% (v/v), at most 7.5% (v/v), at most 8.0% (v/v), at most 8.5% (v/v), at most 9.0% (v/v), at
most 9.5% (v/v), at most 10% (v/v), at most 15% (v/v), at most 20% (v/v), at most 25% (vlv), at most 30%
(v/v), or at most 35% (v/v).
[093]     Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, an amino acid. As used hereon,
the term "amino acid" refers to a molecule with the general formula H 2NCHRCOOH, where R is an organic
substitute. It is envisioned that any amino acid is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this amino acid amount. Amino acids include both the
twenty standard amino acids and non-standard amino acids. Non-limiting examples of amino acids include
glycine, proline, 4-hydroxyproline, serine, glutamate, alanine, lysine, sarcosine, y-aminobutyric acid. Other
non-limiting examples of amino acids excipients can be found in, e.g., Ansel, supra, (1999); Gennaro, supra,
(2000); Hardman, supra, (2001); and Rowe, supra, (2003), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference
in its entirety.
[094]     Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises an amino acid. In
aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a glycine, proline, 4
hydroxyproline, serine, glutamate, alanine, lysine, sarcosine, or y-aminobutyric acid.
[095]     It is envisioned that any amount of amino acid is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically
effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this amino acid amount.                In
aspects of this embodiment, the amount of amino acid added to the formulation is about 0.1% (w/v), about
0.5% (w/v), about 1.0% (w/v), about 1.5% (w/v), about 2.0% (w/v), about 2.5% (w/v), about 3.0% (w/v), about
3.5% (w/v), about 4.0% (w/v), about 4.5% (w/v), about 5.0% (w/v), about 5.5% (w/v), about 6.0% (w/v), about
                                                        29

     WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
6.5% (w/v), about 7.0% (w/v), about 7.5% (w/v), about 8.0% (w/v), about 8.5% (w/v), about 9.0% (w/v), about
9.5% (w/v), about 10% (w/v), about 15% (w/v), about 20% (w/v), about 25% (w/v), about 30% (w/v), or about
35% (w/v). In other aspects of this embodiment, the amount of amino acid added to the formulation is at least
0.1% (w/v), at least 0.5% (w/v), at least 1.0% (w/v), at least 1.5% (w/v), at least 2.0% (w/v), at least 2.5%
(w/v), at least 3.0% (w/v), at least 3.5% (w/v), at least 4.0% (w/v), at least 4.5% (w/v), at least 5.0% (w/v), at
least 5.5% (w/v), at least 6.0% (w/v), at least 6.5% (w/v), at least 7.0% (w/v), at least 7.5% (w/v), at least 8.0%
(w/v), at least 8.5% (w/v), at least 9.0% (w/v), at least 9.5% (w/v), at least 10% (w/v), at least 15% (w/v), at
least 20% (w/v), at least 25% (w/v), at least 30% (w/v), or at least 35% (w/v). In yet other aspects of this
embodiment, the amount of amino acid added to the formulation is at most 0.1% (w/v), at most 0.5% (w/v), at
most 1.0% (w/v), at most 1.5% (w/v), at most 2.0% (w/v), at most 2.5% (w/v), at most 3.0% (w/v), at most
3.5% (w/v), at most 4.0% (w/v), at most 4.5% (w/v), at most 5.0% (w/v), at most 5.5% (w/v), at most 6.0%
(w/v), at most 6.5% (w/v), at most 7.0% (w/v), at most 7.5% (w/v), at most 8.0% (w/v), at most 8.5% (w/v), at
most 9.0% (w/v), at most 9.5% (w/v), at most 10% (w/v), at most 15% (w/v), at most 20% (w/v), at most 25%
(w/v), at most 30% (w/v), or at most 35% (w/v).
[096]     It is envisioned that a plurality of non-protein excipients is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically
effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this plurality of non-protein
excipients. Thus in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprises a plurality of
non-protein excipients. In aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition can
comprise, e.g., at least two non-protein excipients, at least three non-protein excipients, at least four non
protein excipients, at least five non-protein excipients, at least six non-protein excipients, at least seven non
protein excipients or at least eight non-protein excipients. In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical composition can comprise, e.g., at most two non-protein excipients, at most three non
protein excipients, at most four non-protein excipients, at most five non-protein excipients, at most six non
protein excipients, at most seven non-protein excipients or at most eight non-protein excipients. In other
aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition can comprise, e.g., 2-10 non
protein excipients, 2-8, non-protein excipients, 2-6 non-protein excipients, 2-4 non-protein excipients, 3-10
non-protein excipients, 3-8, non-protein excipients, 3-6 non-protein excipients, 3-4 non-protein excipients, 4
10 non-protein excipients, 4-8 non-protein excipients, or 4-6 non-protein excipients. For example, a Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical composition can comprise two different sugars and a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition can comprise a sugar, a surfactant and a Clostridial toxin active
ingredient, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition can comprise a non-protein polymer, a surfactant
and a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, or a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition can comprise a
sugar, a non-protein polymer, a surfactant and a Clostridial toxin active ingredient.
[097]     It is envisioned that any ratio of non-protein excipients is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically
effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this excipient ratio. In aspects of
this embodiment, when two non-protein excipients are added to the formulation, the ratio of the first excipient
to the second excipient is at least 400:1, at least 300:1, at least 200:1, at least 150:1, at least 100:1, at least
                                                      30

      WO 2010/090677                                                                        PCT/US2009/067538
50:1, at least 20:1, at least 15:1, at least 10:1, at least 9:1, at least 8:1, at least 7:1, at least 6:1, at least 5:1, at
least 4:1, at least 3:1, at least 2:1, at least 1:1, at least 1:2, at least 1:3, at least 1:4, at least 1:5, at least 1:6,
at least 1:7, at least 1:8, at least 1:9, at least 1:10, at least 1:15, at least 1:20, at least 1:50, at least 1:100, at
least 1:150, at least 1:200, at least 1:300, or at least 1:400. In other aspects of this embodiment, when three
non-protein excipients are added to the formulation, the ratio of the first excipient to the second excipient and
third excipient is at least 10:2:1, at least 9:2:1, at least 8:2:1, at least 7:2:1,at least 6:2:1, at least 5:2:1, at
least 4:2:1, at least 3:2:1, at least 2:2:1, at least 10:1:1, at least 9:1:1, at least 8:1:1, at least 7:1:1, at least
6:1:1, at least 5:1:1, at least 4:1:1, at least 3:1:1, at least 2:1:1, or at least 1:1:1.
[098]     It is further envisioned that a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present
specification can optionally include, without limitation, other pharmaceutically acceptable components (or
pharmaceutical components), including, without limitation, buffers, preservatives, tonicity adjusters, salts,
antioxidants, osmolality adjusting agents, emulsifying agents, sweetening or flavoring agents, and the like.
Various buffers and means for adjusting pH can be used to prepare a pharmaceutical composition disclosed
in the present specification, provided that the resulting preparation is pharmaceutically acceptable. Such
buffers include, without limitation, acetate buffers, borate buffers, citrate buffers, phosphate buffers, neutral
buffered saline, and phosphate buffered saline. It is understood that acids or bases can be used to adjust the
pH of a pharmaceutical composition as needed. It is envisioned that any buffered pH level can be useful in
formulating a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective
amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered using this effective pH level. In an aspect of this
embodiment, an effective pH level is at least about pH 5.0, at least about pH 5.5, at least about pH 6.0, at
least about pH 6.5, at least about pH 7.0 or at about about pH 7.5. In another aspect of this embodiment, an
effective pH level is at most about pH 5.0, at most about pH 5.5, at most about pH 6.0, at most about pH 6.5,
at most about pH 7.0 or at most about pH 7.5. In yet another aspect of this embodiment, an effective pH level
is about pH 5.0 to about pH 8.0, an effective pH level is about pH 5.0 to about pH 7.0, an effective pH level is
about pH 5.0 to about pH 6.0, is about pH 5.5 to about pH 8.0, an effective pH level is about pH 5.5 to about
pH 7.0, an effective pH level is about pH 5.5 to about pH 5.0, is about pH 5.5 to about pH 7.5, an effective pH
level is about pH 5.5 to about pH pH 6.5.
[099]     It is envisioned that any concentration of a buffer can be useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient is recovered using this effective concentration of buffer. In aspects of this embodiment, an
effective concentration of buffer is at least 0.1 mM, at least 0.2 mM, at least 0.3 mM, at least 0.4 mM, at least
0.5 mM, at least 0.6 mM, at least 0.7 mM, at least 0.8 mM, or at least 0.9 mM.                  In other aspects of this
embodiment, an effective concentration of buffer is at least 1.0 mM, at least 2.0 mM, at least 3.0 mM, at least
4.0 mM, at least 5.0 mM, at least 6.0 mM, at least 7.0 mM, at least 8.0 mM, or at least 9.0 mM. In yet other
aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of buffer is at least 10 mM, at least 20 mM, at least 30
mM, at least 40 mM, at least 50 mM, at least 60 mM, at least 70 mM, at least 80 mM, or at least 90 mM. In
still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of buffer is at least 100 mM, at least 200
mM, at least 300 mM, at least 400 mM, at least 500 mM, at least 600 mM, at least 700 mM, at least 800 mM,
or at least 900 mM. In further aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of buffer is at most 0.1
                                                         31

      WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
mM, at most 0.2 mM, at most 0.3 mM, at most 0.4 mM, at most 0.5 mM, at most 0.6 mM, at most 0.7 mM, at
most 0.8 mM, or at most 0.9 mM. In still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of
buffer is at most 1.0 mM, at most 2.0 mM, at most 3.0 mM, at most 4.0 mM, at most 5.0 mM, at most 6.0 mM,
at most 7.0 mM, at most 8.0 mM, or at most 9.0 mM. In yet other aspects of this embodiment, an effective
concentration of buffer is at most 10 mM, at most 20 mM, at most 30 mM, at most 40 mM, at most 50 mM, at
most 60 mM, at most 70 mM, at most 80 mM, or at most 90 mM. In still other aspects of this embodiment, an
effective concentration of buffer is at most 100 mM, at most 200 mM, at most 300 mM, at most 400 mM, at
most 500 mM, at most 600 mM, at most 700 mM, at most 800 mM, or at most 900 mM. In still further aspects
of this embodiment, an effective concentration of buffer is about 0.1 mM to about 900 mM, 0.1 mM to about
500 mM, 0.1 mM to about 100 mM, 0.1 mM to about 90 mM, 0.1 mM to about 50 mM, 1.0 mM to about 900
mM, 1.0 mM to about 500 mM, 1.0 mM to about 100 mM, 1.0 mM to about 90 mM, or 1.0 mM to about 50
mM.
[0100] Pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include, without limitation, sodium metabisulfite, sodium
thiosulfate, acetylcysteine, butylated hydroxyanisole, and butylated hydroxytoluene. Useful preservatives
include, without limitation, benzalkonium chloride, chlorobutanol, thimerosal, phenylmercuric acetate,
phenylmercuric nitrate, a stabilized oxy chloro composition, such as, e.g., PURITE* and chelants, such as,
e.g., DTPA or DTPA-bisamide, calcium DTPA, and CaNaDTPA-bisamide.                      Tonicity adjustors useful in a
pharmaceutical composition include, without limitation, salts such as, e.g., sodium chloride and potassium
chloride. The pharmaceutical composition may be provided as a salt and can be formed with many acids,
including but not limited to, hydrochloric, sulfuric, acetic, lactic, tartaric, malic, succinic, etc. Salts tend to be
more soluble in aqueous or other protonic solvents than are the corresponding free base forms.                     It is
understood that these and other substances known in the art of pharmacology can be included in a
pharmaceutical composition useful in the invention.          Other non-limiting examples of pharmacologically
acceptable components can be found in, e.g., Ansel, supra, (1999); Gennaro, supra, (2000); Hardman, supra,
(2001); and Rowe, supra, (2003), each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0101] It is envisioned that any concentration of a salt can be useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition, with the proviso that a therapeutically effective amount of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient is recovered using this effective concentration of salt. In aspects of this embodiment, an
effective concentration of salt is at least 0.1 mM, at least 0.2 mM, at least 0.3 mM, at least 0.4 mM, at least
0.5 mM, at least 0.6 mM, at least 0.7 mM, at least 0.8 mM, or at least 0.9 mM.               In other aspects of this
embodiment, an effective concentration of salt is at least 1.0 mM, at least 2.0 mM, at least 3.0 mM, at least
4.0 mM, at least 5.0 mM, at least 6.0 mM, at least 7.0 mM, at least 8.0 mM, or at least 9.0 mM. In yet other
aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of salt is at least 10 mM, at least 20 mM, at least 30
mM, at least 40 mM, at least 50 mM, at least 60 mM, at least 70 mM, at least 80 mM, or at least 90 mM. In
still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of salt is at least 100 mM, at least 200 mM,
at least 300 mM, at least 400 mM, at least 500 mM, at least 600 mM, at least 700 mM, at least 800 mM, or at
least 900 mM. In further aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of salt is at most 0.1 mM, at
most 0.2 mM, at most 0.3 mM, at most 0.4 mM, at most 0.5 mM, at most 0.6 mM, at most 0.7 mM, at most 0.8
mM, or at most 0.9 mM. In still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of salt is at most
                                                       32

     WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
 1.0 mM, at most 2.0 mM, at most 3.0 mM, at most 4.0 mM, at most 5.0 mM, at most 6.0 mM, at most 7.0 mM,
at most 8.0 mM, or at most 9.0 mM. In yet other aspects of this embodiment, an effective concentration of
salt is at most 10 mM, at most 20 mM, at most 30 mM, at most 40 mM, at most 50 mM, at most 60 mM, at
most 70 mM, at most 80 mM, or at most 90 mM.              In still other aspects of this embodiment, an effective
concentration of salt is at most 100 mM, at most 200 mM, at most 300 mM, at most 400 mM, at most 500 mM,
at most 600 mM, at most 700 mM, at most 800 mM, or at most 900 mM. In still further aspects of this
embodiment, an effective concentration of salt is about 0.1 mM to about 900 mM, 0.1 mM to about 500 mM,
0.1 mM to about 100 mM, 0.1 mM to about 90 mM, 0.1 mM to about 50 mM, 1.0 mM to about 900 mM, 1.0
mM to about 500 mM, 1.0 mM to about 100 mM, 1.0 mM to about 90 mM, or 1.0 mM to about 50 mM.
[0102] A pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification generally is administered as a
pharmaceutical acceptable composition comprising a botulinum toxin active ingredient. As used herein, the
term "pharmaceutically acceptable" means any molecular entity or composition that does not produce an
adverse, allergic or other untoward or unwanted reaction when administered to an individual. As used herein,
the term "pharmaceutically acceptable composition" is synonymous with "pharmaceutical composition" and
means a therapeutically effective concentration of an active ingredient, such as, e.g., any of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredients disclosed in the present specification. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient is useful for medical and veterinary applications.         A pharmaceutical
composition may be administered to a patient alone, or in combination with other supplementary active
ingredients, agents, drugs or hormones.
[0103] Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, recovered potency of a
pharmaceutical composition. As used hereon, the term "recovered potency" is synonymous with "recovered
activity" and, when used in reference to a solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition, refers to the
percentage calculated by dividing the potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient in the stored
reconstitution formulation by the potency of the active Clostridial toxin ingredient determined prior to its
addition into the test solution. When used in reference to an aqueous-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition, "recovered potency" refers to the percentage calculated by dividing the potency of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredient in the stored formulation by the potency of the active Clostridial toxin ingredient
determined prior to its addition into the test solution. As used herein, the term "potency" refers to the level of
biological activity exhibited by a Clostridial toxin active ingredient as measured by, e.g., a mouse bioassay or
an in vitro Clostridial toxin light chain activity assay. As a non-limiting example, with respect to a solid-form
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition, a recovery of 60% means that the potency of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient after reconstitution was 60% of the potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient prior to
its addition to the formulation. As another non-limiting example, with respect to an aqueous -form Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical composition, a recovery of 50% means that the potency of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient after storage was 50% of the potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient prior to its addition to
the formulation.
[0104] A wide range of potency or activity assays can be used to determine the recovered potency. For
example, for a Clostridial toxin active ingredient having the capacity to cause lethality, an in vivo assay that
                                                       33

     WO 2010/090677                                                                 PCT/US2009/067538
determines the LD50 value for the Clostridial toxin active ingredient can be used to determine recovered
potency, such as, e.g., the mouse lethality assay or the Digit Abduction Score (DAS) assay. Alternatively, a
cell-based or in vitro potency assay can be used. As another example, for a Clostridial toxin active ingredient
incapable of causing lethality, a cell-based or in vitro activity assay can be used to determine recovered
potency. Examples of in vivo potency assays are described in, e.g., Lindstrom and Korkeala, Laboratory
Diagnostics of Botulism, Clin. Microbiol. Rev. 19(2): 298-314 (2006), which is hereby incorporated by
reference. Examples of cell-based potency assays are described in, e.g., Fernandez-Salas, et al., Cell-based
Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) Assays for Clostridial Toxins, U.S. Patent 7,183,066;
Fernandez-Salas, et al., Botulinum Toxin Screening Assays, U.S. Patent 7,598,027; each of which is hereby
incorporated by reference in its entirety. Examples of in vitro potency assays are described in, e.g., Steward,
et al., FRET Protease Assays for Clostridial Toxins, U.S. Patent 7,332,567; Williams, et al., Fluoresence
Polarization Assays for Determining Clostridial Toxin Acivity, U.S. Patent 7,300,607; Steward, et al., GFP
SNAP25 Fluorescence Release Assay for Botulinum Neurotoxin Protease Activity, U.S. Patent 7,374,896;
Cai, et al., Botulism Diagnostics: From Clinical Symptoms to in vitro Assays, Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 33(2): 109
 125 (2007); each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0105] It is envisioned that any level of recovered potency is useful in formulating a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a therapeutically
effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is present. Thus, in an embodiment, a Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification exhibits a recovered potency of at
least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at
least 90%, or at least 100%. In another embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed
in the present specification exhibits a recovered potency of at most 10%, at most 20%, at most 30%, at most
40%, at most 50%, at most 60%, at most 70%, at most 80%, at most 90%, or at most 100%. In yet another
embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification exhibits a
recovered potency of about 20% to about 100%, about 20% to about 90%, about 20% to about 80%, about
20% to about 70%, about 20% to about 60%, or about 20% to about 50%. In still another embodiment, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification exhibits a recovered
potency of about 40% to about 100%, about 40% to about 90%, about 40% to about 80%, about 40% to
about 70%, about 40% to about 60%, or about 40% to about 50%.
[0106] Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a pharmaceutical composition
form. As used herein, the term "pharmaceutical composition form" refers to whether the pharmaceutical
composition is processed into a solid form or aqueous form. Processing a formulation of a pharmaceutical
composition into a solid form can be achieved by, e.g., lypholization (freeze-drying) or vacuum-drying.
Processing a formulation of a pharmaceutical composition into an aqueous form can simply be achieved
during the compounding stage by the addition of a solute that dissolves or suspends solid excipients to form a
solution. Thus, in an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition is in a solid form. In
another embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition is in an aqueous form.
                                                    34

     WO 2010/090677                                                                          PCT/US2009/067538
[0107] Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, storage condition of a
pharmaceutical composition. As used hereon, the term "storage condition of a pharmaceutical composition"
refers to the location a pharmaceutical composition is stored while in its solid form before reconstitution with
an appropriate solution prior to administration. It is envisioned that any storage condition is useful for storing
a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification, with the proviso that a
therapeutically effective amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is recovered upon reconstitution with
the appropriate solution. In an embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the
present specification is stored at ambient temperature.            In aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification is stored at an ambient temperature of at
least 16 C, at least 18    0,  at least 20 C, or at least 22    0.   In other aspects of this embodiment, a Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification is stored at an ambient temperature of
at most 16    0,   at most 18 C, at most 20     0,    or at most 22   0.    In yet other aspects of this embodiment, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification is stored at an ambient
temperature of about 16 C to about 24 *C, at about 16 * to about 22              0,  at about 16 *C to about 20 C, or at
about 18 C to about 24 C. In another embodiment, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed
in the present specification is stored at a temperature below freezing.               In aspects of this embodiment, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification is stored at a temperature
of at least 0  0,   at least -20 0,  at least -70  0,   or at least -120   0.   In other aspects of this embodiment, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification is stored at a temperature
of at most 0 C, at most -20 C, at most -70 C, or at most -120 C. In yet other aspects of this embodiment, a
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition disclosed in the present specification is stored at a temperature
of at about 0 C to about -20      0, at about -5 C to about -20 C, at about 0 'C to about -15 C, at about -5 C
to about -15    0,  at about 0 C to about -70     0,   at about -20 C to about -70      0, or at about -20 C to about
 120 0.
[0108] Aspects of the present pharmaceutical compositions provide, in part, a Clostridial toxin active
ingredient that is stable.      For purposes of the present Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions, a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable when the recovered potency of the active ingredient when stored for
a certain period of time is at least 70% of the initial recovered potency for that active ingredient. For example,
a Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable when the Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition containing
that Clostridial toxin active ingredient demonstrates, e.g., an initial recovered potency of 100% and a
recovered potency of at least 70% when tested one year later, an initial recovered potency of 90% and a
recovered potency of at least 63% when tested one year later, an initial recovered potency of 80% and a
recovered potency of at least 56% when tested one year later, an initial recovered potency of 70% and a
recovered potency of at least 49% when tested one year later, or an initial recovered potency of 60% and a
recovered potency of at least 42% when tested one year later.
[0109] Aspects of the Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions disclosed in the present specification can
also be described as follows:
 1. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
                                                           35

   WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
   a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of sucrose, wherein the composition is
   buffered to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
   when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
2. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
   toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of lactose, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is
   stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
3. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
   Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of lactose, wherein the composition is buffered
   to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when
   stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
4. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
   a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of lactose, wherein the composition is
   buffered to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
   when stored at below freezing temperatures.
5. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
   toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of lactose in sodium chloride solution, wherein the
   Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
   temperatures.
6. A phosphate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
   comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of dextran 3K, wherein the
   composition is buffered to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at
   least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
7. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
   toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of PVP 17, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is
   stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
8. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
   Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of PVP 17, wherein the composition is buffered
   to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least
   one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
9. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
   a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of PVP 17, wherein the composition is
   buffered to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
   when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
                                                     36

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
10. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17, and an effective amount of sodium chloride,
    wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
11. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
    a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of PEG 3350, wherein the composition is
    buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at
    least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
12. A histidine-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
    comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of PEG 3350, wherein the
    composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active
    ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
13. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
    a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is
    buffered to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
14. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
    a Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is
    buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at
    least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
15. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of sucrose, wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below
    freezing temperatures.
16. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of sucrose,
    wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is
    stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
17. A phosphate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
    comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of
    sucrose, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active
    ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
                                                      37

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
18. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective
    amount of sodium chloride, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
19. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of PVP 17, wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
20. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of PVP 17,
    wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin
    active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
21. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
    a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of PVP 17,
    wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is
    stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
22. A phosphate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
    comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of
    PVP 17, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing
    temperatures.
23. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective
    amount of sodium chloride, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
24. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of PEG 3350, wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below
    freezing temperatures.
25. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of PVP 17, wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
                                                      38

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
26. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of PEG 3350, wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below
    freezing temperatures.
26. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
    a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of PEG 3350,
    wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is
    stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
27. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188,
    wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
28. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of Poloxamer
     188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing
    temperatures.
29. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, and an
    effective amount of sodium chloride, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least
    one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
30. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose and an effective amount of polysorbate 80,
    wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
31. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein
    the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
32. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose and an effective amount of Poloxamer
     188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to an about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing
    temperatures.
                                                      39

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
33. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose, an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, and an
    effective amount of sodium chloride, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least
    one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
34. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of Dextran 3K and an effective amount of PEG
    3350, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
35. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective amount of PEG 3350, wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
36. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective amount of PEG 3350,
    wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin
    active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
37. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of Dextran 3K and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188,
    wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
38. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of Dextran 3K and an effective amount of
    Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
39. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of Dextran 40K and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188,
    wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
40. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of Dextran 40K and an effective amount of
    Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
                                                      40

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
    temperatures.
41. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188,
    wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
42. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective amount of Poloxamer
     188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
43. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17, an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, and an
    effective amount of sodium chloride, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least
    one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
44. A citrate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
    a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PEG 3350 and an effective amount of
    Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
45. A phosphate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
    comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PEG 3350 and an effective amount
    of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin
    active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing temperatures.
46. A histidine-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
    comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PEG 3350 and an effective amount
    of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5, and wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below
    freezing temperatures.
47. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective amount of Polysorbate 80,
    wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below freezing
    temperatures.
48. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective
                                                      41

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
    amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at below freezing temperatures.
49. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an
    effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5,
    and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at below
    freezing temperatures.
50. A phosphate-buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
    comprising a Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of
    PVP 17 and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5
    to about pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when
    stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
51. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of PVP 17, an effective
    amount of Poloxamer 188, and an effective amount of sodium chloride, wherein the Clostridial toxin active
    ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
52. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of lactose and an effective
    amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
53. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of lactose and an
    effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5,
    and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either
    ambient or below freezing temperatures.
54. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of sucrose, an effective amount of PVP 17 and an effective
    amount of PEG 3350, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when
    stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
55. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of lactose, an effective amount of PEG 3350 and an effective
    amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
                                                      42

    WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
56. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of Dextran 3K, an effective amount of PEG 3350 and an
    effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least
    one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
57. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of Dextran 3K, an effective amount of PEG 3350
    and an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about
    pH 6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at
    either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
57. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17, an effective amount of PEG 3350 and an effective
    amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
58. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17, an effective amount of PEG 3350 and
    an effective amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH
    6.5, and wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either
    ambient or below freezing temperatures.
58. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of PVP 17, an effective amount of glycine and an effective
    amount of Poloxamer 188, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year
    when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
59. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of a sugar excipient and an effective amount of surfactant
    excipient.
60. The composition according to 59, wherein the sugar excipient is a monosaccharide, a disaccharide or a
    trisaccharide.
61. The composition according to 59, wherein the surfactant excipient is a poloxamer, a polysorbate, a
    polyoxyethylene glycol dodecyl ether, or a polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether.
62. The composition according to 59, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one
    year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
63. The composition according to 59, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5.
                                                      43

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
64. The composition according to 63, wherein the composition is buffered using a citrate buffer, a phosphate
    buffer or a histidine buffer.
65. The composition according to 59, wherein the composition further comprises an effective amount of
    sodium chloride.
66. The composition according to 59, wherein the composition further comprises an effective amount of a
    non-protein polymer excipient.
67. The composition according to 66, wherein the non-protein polymer excipient is a dextran, a polyethylene
    glycol, a polyethylene mine,    a polyvinyl pyrrolidone, a polyvinyl acetate, an inulin, a starch, or a starch
    derivative.
68. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of a non-protein polymer excipient and an effective amount of
    surfactant excipient.
69. The composition according to 68, wherein the non-protein polymer excipient is a dextran, a polyethylene
    glycol, a polyethylene imine, a polyvinyl pyrrolidone, a polyvinyl acetate, an inulin, a starch, or a starch
    derivative.
70. The composition according to 68, wherein the surfactant excipient is a poloxamer, a polysorbate, a
    polyoxyethylene glycol dodecyl ether, or a polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether.
71. The composition according to 68, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one
    year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
72. The composition according to 68, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5.
73. The composition according to 72, wherein the composition is buffered using a citrate buffer, a phosphate
    buffer or a histidine buffer.
74. The composition according to 68, wherein the composition further comprises an effective amount of
    sodium chloride.
75. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of a first non-protein polymer excipient, an effective amount of
    a second non-protein polymer excipient, and an effective amount of surfactant excipient.
76. The composition according to 75, wherein the first non-protein polymer excipient is a dextran, a
                                                      44

    WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
    polyethylene glycol, a polyethylene mine,  a polyvinyl pyrrolidone, a polyvinyl acetate, an inulin, a starch,
    or a starch derivative.
77. The composition according to 75, wherein the second non-protein polymer excipient is a dextran, a
    polyethylene glycol, a polyethylene imine, a polyvinyl pyrrolidone, a polyvinyl acetate, an inulin, a starch,
    or a starch derivative.
78. The composition according to 75, wherein the surfactant excipient is a poloxamer, a polysorbate, a
    polyoxyethylene glycol dodecyl ether, or a polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether.
79. The composition according to 75, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one
    year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
80. The composition according to 75, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5.
81. The composition according to 80, wherein the composition is buffered using a citrate buffer, a phosphate
    buffer or a histidine buffer.
82. The composition according to 75, wherein the composition further comprises an effective amount of
    sodium chloride.
83. The composition according to 1-82, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is a Clostridial toxin
    complex, a Clostriddial toxin, a modified Clostridial toxin or a re-targeted Clostridial toxin.
84. The composition according to 83, wherein the Clostridial toxin complex is a BoNT/A complex, a BoNT/B
    complex, a BoNT/C, complex, a BoNT/D complex, a BoNT/E complex, a BoNT/F complex, a BoNT/G
    complex, a TeNT complex, a BaNT complex, or a BuNT complex.
85. The composition according to 83, wherein the Clostridial toxin complex is a 900-kDa BoNT/A complex, a
    500-kDa BoNT/A complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/A complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/B complex, a 500-kDa
    BoNT/C1 complex, a 500-kDa BoNT/D complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/D complex, a 300-kDa BoNT/E
    complex, or a 300-kDa BoNT/F complex.
86. The composition according to 83, wherein the Clostridial toxin is a BoNT/A, a BoNT/B, a BoNT/C 1 , a
    BoNT/D, a BoNT/E, a BoNT/F, a BoNT/G, a TeNT, a BaNT, or a BuNT.
87. The composition according to 83, wherein the BoNT/A is a BoNT/A1, a BoNT/A2, a BoNT/A3, a BoNT/A4,
    or a BoNT/A5.
88. The composition according to 83, wherein the re-targeted Clostridial toxin is a re-targeted BoNT/A, a re
    targeted BoNT/B, a re-targeted BoNT/C 1 , a re-targeted BoNT/D, a re-targeted BoNT/E, a re-targeted
                                                   45

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
    BoNT/F, a re-targeted BoNT/G, a re-targeted TeNT, a re-targeted BaNT, or a re-targeted BuNT
89. The composition according to 83, wherein the re-targeted Clostridial toxin comprises an opiod targeting
    moiety, a tachykinin targeting moiety, a melanocortin targeting moiety, a granin targeting moiety, a
    Neuropeptide Y related peptide targeting moiety, a neurohormone targeting moiety, a neuroregulatory
    cytokine targeting moiety, a kinin peptide targeting moiety, a fibroblast growth factor targeting moiety, a
    nerve growth factor targeting moiety, an insulin growth factor targeting moiety, an epidermal growth factor
    targeting moiety, a vascular endothelial growth factor targeting moiety, a brain derived neurotrophic factor
    targeting moiety, a growth derived neurotrophic factor targeting moiety, a neurotrophin targeting moiety, a
    head activator peptide targeting moiety, a neurturin targeting moiety, a persephrin targeting moiety, an
    artemin targeting moiety, a transformation growth factor P targeting moiety, a bone morphogenic protein
    targeting moiety, a growth differentiation factor targeting moiety, an activin targeting moiety, a glucagon
    like hormone targeting moiety, a pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide targeting moiety, a growth
    hormone-releasing hormone targeting moiety, vasoactive intestinal peptide targeting moiety, a gastric
    inhibitory polypeptide targeting moiety, a calcitonin-related peptidesvisceral gut peptide targeting moiety,
    or a PAR peptide targeting moiety.
90. The composition according to 89, wherein the opiod targeting moiety is an enkephalin, an endomorphin,
    an endorphin, a dynorphin, a nociceptin or a hemorphin
91. The composition according to 89, wherein the tachykinin targeting moiety is a Substance P, a
    neuropeptide K, a neuropeptide gamma, a neurokinin A, a neurokinin B, a hemokinin or a endokinin.
92. A buffered, animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient and an effective amount of trehalose and an effective amount of
    Poloxamer 188, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about 6.5, and wherein the
    Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least one-year when stored at either ambient or below
    freezing temperatures.
                                                   EXAMPLES
[0110] The following examples set forth specific embodiments of the present Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.
                                                    Example 1
                           Non-Protein Stabilized Formulations - One Excipient
[0111] Experiments were carried out to determine the effects of formulations comprising a single non-protein
excipient on Clostridial toxin active ingredient recovery after reconstitution. The non-protein excipients tested
                                                      46

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
were added separately or in combination with the listed buffers or salts (Table 2). All of the formulations were
compounded, lyophilized, reconstituted and potency assessed in the same manner, and with the same
Clostridial toxin active ingredient used in each formulation, except that each formulation was prepared with
different non-protein excipient or with different amounts of the non-protein excipient.
[0112] Formulations were compounded by first adding the indicated amount of the non-protein excipient(s) to
sterile water to form a solution. Next the Clostridial toxin active ingredient was added to the solution to
produce the formulation.       The Clostridial toxin active ingredient added was about 150 units of a 900
kDaBoNT/A complex, about 150 units of a 150 kDa BoNT/A, or about 250 ng of a 100 kDa re-targeted
BoNT/A, where the modification was the substitution of the BoNT/A binding domain with an opiod ligand, see
e.g., Steward, L.E. et al., Modified Clostridial Toxins with Enhanced Translocation Capabilities and Altered
Targeting Activity For Non-Clostridial Toxin Target Cells, U.S. Patent Application No. 11/776,075 (Jul. 11,
2007); Dolly, J.O. et al., Activatable Clostridial Toxins, U.S. Patent Application No. 11/829,475 (Jul. 27, 2007);
Foster, K.A. et al., Fusion Proteins, International Patent Publication WO 2006/059093 (Jun. 8, 2006); and
Foster, K.A. et al., Non-Cytotoxic Protein Conjugates, International Patent Publication WO 2006/059105 (Jun.
8, 2006), each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The formulations were processed into
solid forms (either by lyophilization or vacuum drying), stored for a specified period of time (about one-day, at
least three months or at least one year), reconstitution with either sterile water or a specified buffer, and then
assayed to determine the recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient.
[0113] To determine the recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin, Clostridial toxin complex or modified
Clostridial toxin, the reconstituted formulation was assayed by a mouse LD 50 bioassay. For each reconstituted
formulation, a minimum of six serial dilutions at 1.33 dose intervals were prepared in normal saline and
typically five or six mice (female Swiss Weber weighing between 17-22 grams) were used in each dosage
group. The mice were injected intraperitoneally into the lower right abdomen and the death rates over the
ensuing 72 hours for each dilution were recorded. The dilutions were prepared so that the most concentrated
dilution produces a death rate of at least 80% of the mice injected, and the least concentration dilution
produces a death rate no greater than 20% of the mice injected. A minimum of four dilutions must fall within
the monotone decreasing range of the death rates, i.e., the two largest and the two smallest rates must be
decreasing (not equivalent). The monotone decreasing range commences with a death rate of no less than
80%. Two reference standard assays are carried out concurrently. The dilution at which 50% of the mice die
within the three day post injection observation period is defined as a dilution which comprises one unit (1 U) of
the botulinum toxin. The mouse LD5o bioassay provides a determination of the potency of a Clostridial toxin,
Clostridial toxin complex or modified Clostridial toxin in terms of its mouse 50% lethal dose or "LD 50." Thus,
one unit (U) of a Clostridial toxin, Clostridial toxin complex or modified Clostridial toxin is defined as the
amount of toxin which upon intraperitoneal injection killed 50% of the mice injected, i.e., LD 50.
[0114] Recovery is expressed as a percentage and is calculated by dividing the potency of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredient in the stored reconstitution formulation by the potency of the active Clostridial toxin
ingredient determined prior to its addition into the test solution. Thus, for example, a recovery of 60% means
that the potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient after reconstitution was 60% of the potency of the
                                                       47

     WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
Clostridial toxin active ingredient prior to its addition to the formulation. The maximum theoretical recovered
potency is 100%. The results show that, in general, a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
a Clostridial toxin complex was poorly stabilized when the formulation comprised a single non-protein
excipient (Table 2).
[0115] When the single excipient used was a sugar, only the disaccharide lactose exhibited any degree of
initial recovered potency, showing about 15% to about 41% recovery of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient
when about 10 mg to about 50 mg of lactose was added (about 1% (w/v) to about 5% (w/v))(Table 2).
Furthermore, although exhibiting recovery, the test formulations containing lactose as the single excipient did
not appear very stable after one year in storage since recovered potency was not detected at this time for any
amount tested except for 20 mg lactose (Table 2). Addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5) and potassium
phosphate (pH 5.5) improved both initial recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions containing lactose as the single excipient.
Initial recovered potency increased from about 41% to about 60% when the lactose formulation comprised 10
mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5) and increased from about 41% to about 71% when the lactose formulation
comprised 10 mM potassium phosphate (pH 5.5)(Table 2). In addition, increased recovered potency of the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient was also observed after at least one-year of storage using either pH 5.5
buffer, as opposed to water, in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions stored at ambient or freezing
temperatures (Table 2).         However, addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 6.5) to Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions containing lactose as the single excipient did not improve either initial recovered
potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). Surprisingly, addition of 10
mM potassium phosphate (pH 6.5) to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions containing lactose as the
single excipient actually eliminated recovery of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient altogether (Table 2).
Lastly, the addition of 10 mM sodium chloride to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions containing
lactose as the single excipient did not improve either recovered potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredient (Table 2).
[0116] The disaccharides sucrose and trehalose and the trisaccharide raffinose showed no recovered
potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient whatsoever when used as the single excipient. Furthermore,
with one exception, the addition of buffers or sodium chloride to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
containing these sugars as the single excipient did not improve either initial recovered potency or long-term
stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). The single exception was the Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical composition comprising sucrose and 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5). This formulation
exhibited 44% initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient and this degree of recover
was maintained for at least one year when stored at either ambient or freezing temperatures (Table 2).
[0117] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions containing a polyol (mannitol) as the single excipient did
not exhibit any recovered potency (Table 2). Addition of buffers or sodium chloride to Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions containing mannitol as the single excipient did not improve either recovered
potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2).
                                                        48

 WO 2010/090677                                                                               PCTIUS2009/067538
                    c~    D* CD   CD Q D (D     C       m       CDC   DC   C cCD                       M  C)O              c
                                                                                                 (.0  It    LOc)
               S     0
                 L  C
                                       :E          ')                        .0           0      L 10)    0   C)    0 0  0
                                                       CD C))       C)   C)      C)-C            10
                 Q 2C -C       )C       DC  D Dc                              tc                   o          O      L
      00
   x                0
   Su CC 0C~                                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                    ~
                      Q~~1      <                                                        UC')               r        C
                    0                             10011                                          10101010             O
a)                       10    101010                1    L   0          TTCO00C
                                                                      m m m - -
                   o)             a)        a))                    z         Z)  a)           (1)                    z
                                              m   E E E E:
                                                                    0        0D
                                                                         0D CD                                       CD,
             0
               C
                                  N   CO010            0    C\ 4     4CO 'CC             04   LO C     C      C      C
               CL                                                                                                         a)
                                   W                                                                                      U)
                         CO   U)  CO CO U)  CO U) CO U)    U)   U)  U)   U)  U)  U)   U)  U)  U)  U)   U)    U)  U)   U)
                                                      49

WO 2010/090677                                                             PCT/US2009/067538
                aJ C: D   D    CD   D CD D CD  D CD C: CD  C: CD   : Cl    DD     CD CD CD CD CD
                      C)O
              E
     0
     E                      CDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCDCD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD
  o             00
                                  C)1         LC)
       0-       0
C4
  0c
           0                                      1
                                                               CD C)  C)C -N0N1CC            OOOC       C (C DC
  co
                                LO                      LOC     ccc(       cC co     CD(. o co * -----------
            05

WO 2010/090677                                                                            PCT/US2009/067538
                CL 0
                E EC
  x                0
  Su                                                                 C'C))')~~CN
  o     75nLC                                                                                              NCO
     Qr            0-                                                                            It
                                           LOIO                                   r-  co CO 0             L( ~~O  c)o~
cc o0       00                                                                  0                         0
                                                                                                     0   0    0 o
                         I  m   T--
 co                                                                                  --
            0
  ca
                       00
                      00
     S.       0           0
                                                                                                                CD)
         UC                  C) C----------------------------------CD)
                                                                                                      LOCD
                                                                                                   O CD)
                                                                                               LOCD)
                                                                                                 LO       LOOO  O
                                          00o
                                           00o0               0o              Gm                          co   o
                                m ca                 51

WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
                                                                     0~
                                                                              a)        -    00
                     CD~  o0)c     0             --                           Z
                                                                   -2    0--o                b
                0)                                             0-E
     0    L
                                                                    > 6LO on              o
                                                                                 0
                                                                                   w   -0
                                                                        LO                   > -0
             E        )0>)0                                                                 L E 0a
                         LO           0
                                   00LO(90                     Ev
                                                                        o-                  CU        a
                                                                                                  a)       E
               00                                                                            0-        0)
                   r                                    0a                          cu         -~a
                            -0
                        2                                      0
               0E ME     co~ CD C)CCa        DC       E
                                                      DCDC   D a,)
                                                               0.5       00-                 a
       o-        0   m    r            -r--                    0-          *:           U5    a-=           c
                                                                                        cu      .-     =E o
                                                               a,             ca
                                                                             LL
                CL                                                                     2n       0.      a)
                o1                                                            E                            oE-O
  -                                                                                     a)    -      ,     0-c
                X-                                                              a0                coaE
                                                                                                       00
                                                                         x              2                      U)
    cc00     0                         00           0                                   m
                                                                                       t-!    o
       E    2                  0-  -0     0-        0-   - 0    ca          0-an                   V
                                              52        mmm

WO 20 10/090677                           PCT/US2009/067538
               U        N4
                   CC
         04-0
             O
       00
   0
                      C)C
          c        CN
   o                       0      fl
           0                     o0C~
  .S                             Cu
               0           o
                                  0
M    -
                   0        0    LO
                      .2   C)
                             ao   0
             0~0                 -0
   c;               n        0      CD
             0)                   0
                 -          0      3)
                            a.a0
                            D     ca
       0                          0
                            a)    N
                     F-    -       0
                                  a)
                                       53

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
[0118] When the single excipient used was a non-protein polymer, recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient dependent on the both type of non-protein polymer used and the specific buffer added. For
example, Dextran 3K and Dextran 40K showed no initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient whatsoever when used as the single excipient. On the other hand, the addition of about 60 mg of
PEG 3350 (about 2% (w/v)) resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 47%. Similarly the addition of
about 5 mg to about 20 mg of PVP 17 (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) resulted in an initial recovered
potency of about 39% to about 52% (Table 2).
[0119] In general, the addition various buffers did not improve the initial recovered potency of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredient when Dextran 3K or Dextran 40K was used as the single excipient. The sole exception
was a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising dextran 3K in 10 mM potassium phosphate
(pH 5.5), where initial recovered potency increased from 0% to about 66%, a recovered potency that was
maintained for at least one year. Surprisingly, the addition various buffers dramatically improved both
recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient when PEG 3350 or PVP 17
was used as the single excipient. For example, in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising
PEG 3350, the addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5) increased recovered potency from 0% to about
76%; the addition of 10 mM potassium phosphate (pH 5.5) increased recovered potency from 0% to about
80%; and the addition of 10 mM histidine buffer (pH 5.5) increased recovered potency from 0% to about 72%
(Table 2). In all cases, the addition of these various buffers resulted in long-term stability of at least one-year
both at ambient and freezing temperatures.
[0120] Similar, but more complex results were observed in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising PVP 17 as the single excipient. For example, in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising PVP 17, the addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5) increased initial recovered potency from
about 43% to about 113%; the addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 6.5) increased initial recovered potency
from about 43% to about 81%; the addition of 10 mM potassium phosphate (pH 5.5) increased initial
recovered potency from about 43% to about 97%; and the addition of 10 mM potassium phosphate (pH 5.5)
increased initial recovered potency from about 43% to about 83%. However, while all buffers tested exhibited
increased recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient, only the addition of the sodium citrate
buffers resulted in long-term stability of at least one year. Lastly, the addition of 10 mM sodium chloride to
pharmaceutical compositions containing PVP 17 as the single excipient did not improve either initial
recovered potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient.
[0121] When the single excipient used was a surfactant, recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient dependent was not detected. In addition, use of various buffers resulted in mixed recovered
potency. For example, in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising Poloxamer 188, the
addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5) increased initial recovered potency from 0% to about 81%; the
addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 6.5) increased initial recovered potency from 0% to about 56%; and the
addition of 10 mM potassium phosphate (pH 5.5) increased initial recovered potency from 0% to about 39%;
but the addition of 10 mM potassium phosphate (pH 6.5) did not improve recovery at all (Table 2). However,
                                                      54

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
only the addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5) resulted in long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient stored at either ambient or freezing temperatures (Table 2).
[0122] Thus, generally, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a single excipient does not
result in significant recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient, especially when such
compositions ate stored for at least one year. Surprisingly, however, both the addition of a buffer to the
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition can result in both improved recovered potency and increased
long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. However, the pairing of a particular excipeint with
a specific buffer can only be determined empirically.
                                                      Example 2
                           Non-Protein Stabilized Formulations - Two Excipients
[0123] Experiments were carried out to determine the effects of formulations comprising two different non
protein excipients on Clostridial toxin active ingredient recovery after reconstitution. The non-protein
excipients tested were added separately or in combination with the listed buffers or salts (Tables 3-5). All of
the formulations were compounded, lyophilized, reconstituted and potency assessed in the same manner,
and with the same Clostridial toxin active ingredient used in each formulation, except that each formulation
was prepared with different non-protein excipients or with different amounts of the non-protein excipients.
[0124] The tested formulations were compounded, processed, stored and reconstituted as described in
Example 1. Recovered potency was determined using the mouse LD 50 bioassay described in Example 1.
Recovery is expressed as a percentage and is calculated by dividing the potency of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient in the stored reconstitution formulation by the potency of the active Clostridial toxin ingredient
determined prior to its addition into the test solution. The results show that a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprising a Clostridial toxin complex could be stabilized when the formulation comprised two
non-protein excipients (Tables 3-5).
[0125] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising two different sugars yielded mixed results.
For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose and sucrose did not appear to
dramatically improve recovered potency. For example, compositions comprising about 5% (w/v) lactose
resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 35% (Table 2), compositions comprising about 5% (w/v)
sucrose resulted in no recovered potency (Table 2), and compositions comprising about 5% (w/v) lactose and
about 5% (w/v) sucrose resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 27% (Table 3).                  Similarly,
compositions comprising about 2% (w/v) lactose resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 41% (Table
2), compositions comprising about 1% (w/v) sucrose resulted in no recovered potency (Table 2), and
compositions comprising about 2% (w/v) lactose and about 1% (w/v) sucrose resulted in an initial recovered
potency of about 68% (Table 3). Although there was an increased initial recovered potency in compositions
comprising both about 2% (w/v) lactose and about 1% (w/v) sucrose, long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 2% lactose and about
1%sucrose were similar to compositions comprising about 2% (w/v) lactose alone (See Tables 3 & 4).
                                                       55

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
[0126] Similarly, the addition of 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 5.5), 10 mM sodium citrate (pH 6.5), and 10 mM
potassium phosphate (pH 5.5) had no effect on either initial recovered potency or long-term stability of the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 2%
lactose and about 1%sucrose when compared to compositions comprising about 2% lactose as the sole
sugar excipient. Surprisingly, however, in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose,
2% (w/v), and sucrose, 1% (w/v), the addition of 10 mM potassium phosphate (pH 6.5) increased initial
recovered potency from 0% to about 50%, and this formulation was stable for at least one year at freezing
temperatures. Similarly striking, in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose, 2%
(w/v), and sucrose, 1% (w/v), the addition of 10 mM sodium chloride increased initial recovered potency
(compare lactose, 2% (w/v), 10 mM sodium chloride at about 39%, sucrose, 2% (w/v), 10 mM sodium chloride
at 0%, and lactose, 2% (w/v), sucrose, 1% (w/v), 10 mM sodium chloride at about 61%). More importantly,
this formulation resulted in long-term stability of at least one year at both ambient and freezing temperatures.
[0127] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose and either trehalose or mannitol did
not improve initial recovered potency, with most combinations resulting in no recovery whatsoever. Similarly,
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose and mannitol did not improve initial
recovered potency (compare 5% (w/v) lactose at about 35% (Table 2), 5% (w/v) mannitol at 0% (Table 2), and
5% (w/v) lactose 5% (w/v) and mannitol at about 23% (Table 3)).
[0128] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a sugar and a non-protein polymer
expanded the range of excipient amounts effective at producing initial recovered potency and long-term
stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For example, various amount of sucrose in combination with
various amount of PVP 17 expanded the range of excipient amounts effective at increased recovered potency
and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. When sucrose was used as the sole excipient
at ranges from about 5 mg to about 250 mg (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 25% (w/v)), no detectable recovered
potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient was observed, whereas PVP 17 at about 5 mg to about 20 mg
(about 0.5% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) resulted in an initial recovered potency. However, Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 30 mg to about 250 mg (about 3% (w/v) to about 25% (w/v))
of sucrose in combination with about 30 mg to about 250 mg (about 3% (w/v) to about 25% (w/v)) of PVP 17
resulted in about 39 to about 62% initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (each of
these excipients at these amounts alone resulted in no detectable recovery). As another example, about 5
mg of sucrose (about 0.5% (w/v)) in combination with from about 50 mg of PVP 17 (about 5% (w/v)) increased
recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 39% (Table 3) (each of these excipients at
these amounts alone resulted in no detectable recovery).
                                                        56

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                 PCT/US2009/067538
           -           .
                    (D 0            QD             LO)      co                                             l-            r
     0               N      I               D        0CDLOCD0                   0     ID              CD         ID ICD0
 cz                     0~                    oo I-                       o           lo               00             101D                    IDCD
                 C)
          C)      -     0     It   O       f'-O             LO
                                   r-          00     1-                                              ~0  r- -o       cNr-    0)        0 01
              00
        x                            0                      :z   C'          .0.       .   .
 0-      0                            l        l
                                    U)      0)0                         -        -          -          -. . .   .     .     .   .   .   .     .
                                            cu                                                            c'a -       -    -
                                    cz-      (D-    -
                                                   C:   -
                                                        C   -
 0
                                                      N   N 040~                 1-0                  0    -O~           - 0      -   -
      x    ca                 N             \CJC\\JL                       C         LOo              C:          '                   C...N.J. . .. .
     p                                                                                             1                               0
 o0*
                CD0                                                        a
      CO     C.L                                 0      0
                cn~~                                                                                                  00          00
      OD                      CDC                  DC D (          D(      OC          )           CD         CxC)                 0o
    S
                           V)    U)     0)      n   ) 0)n)    )0V   )              )  En   0n ) (n      )  a)n (n    ( 0) ))n0))        n)0n
                           0   0     0        u0000               u   0    C)  0     u   0            uO       0    0uu0000                  u.)
                                                                     57

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
             m            S
             oS-                                                                                                        co 0L        0m m
              N -j E E IN | |               i  |         ~   t                        CD       10     |               ooII
               D--        E                                  00 cI m           m-     c
  4          oom
                   E}     .Oc
                                       11l                       n             y      e
                                                                                      C
                                                                                               oO     |||
                                                                                                                      F
                                                                                                                      c
                                                                                                                      oo     D
                                                                                                                                 oo  (     o
         00
             C)
                                                                               C'    C:       CD_DC                               DC       DC
  c       CD       a.I-II
                    0                                   CO c      Itr LO  -               _
                                el     osti        |i            u                    o        o            ||        o.ao.oo.oo
                   e                                                                E        E
                 o                                            oo-o
         C)               r-9                           55       "tCD               oC       o0C                      C      D D DCDC
-C                        p
  0                    -:          C'        o C                 t    ---      -      -         o      -       to          o     o     e   o
                              Cl          OC              )0        o     C0   0        O            t         C-     C.  r-   r           o NcN )
                                                                    -       --
  .CC.-                    0
                L0                               O          O   0              0      0O       100                                   CC)C00
          o- (1                76       Z
                                        -   Z -522                                                  o          -      o    o     oo       06
                                                                                                                                           o   oC'.
  x           -. ,
  0         0
                              CL                        C) C)..[        C CL L      CO[ )                                 L
  p                                                                                                                       "'tDD D N N 0        0    000 0
  o     .2                                                                                                            o
  c >                                                                                                                 E E E E E E
                0             -LOL- L  CL   0- 0 -'   -  -- --    -     -\- --   -
                                                                                 \-   -
                                                                                      CV)          CL
                                                                                                    LO LO [L LOCL   ~ N
                                                                                                                      CL[L   !C CL [L  -' CL [
                                         o       *6*6>xxx                             o         -                     x    x" x* xox
  2                                LO
                                       --     - - -                - 58m   -           -M                  ')COm
          Wa                   ao     o a,     o     o        o o          o o         o        a,  a,     o    a,         o     o    a,  o    o
                                 000                                            0      0        0     00               o0            00 00
                               ooo          o     o o o o o                     o      o             o     o     oo       0        0       o   o
                                                  Or OCI      r          58)                Cl) CL)C                       E           2 E 2

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
           CD      0
       __          U
                   0                                                                                                          m
     >o         oo               o          o          o              o                      ~
     m2
     cn)
                                                       -       0                               I    10     [-0
 CO Q         0       o         D CD C C           :)0              D                                        F
 0
                                       m~~~~11
                                            wC                     mLDwOO                  m0        L                  LC)r          10- LCD
                                                RZ   ~                                     ~                LOLLOLOLLOL                             0
          0-                                                                                               U   -~    ) C) U) C) U) U) U) U)
M 0-      0
  0
 z                                                                                O.OL
                                            cC                  C E'.             C)0              (               CC:)                     . C)
                       .   ..                      .   .      .     ..
                      x    x   xxx                x           x x xx              x       xx          x       xx         x     xx      x      x )<
                    0    0    00       00        00         0     00000                00          00           00          00       00           0
                      d0 7 0    0   0    0   0     0   0      0    0    0    0    0     0    70     0-    075-575-5
                                                                                                                 0     0    0    05 05 0 5 0
       010O10                    C"J t  C\J -          t      C\J    -O                       N            (0C\ 0      ',1    010      \      N10 C O 0 0 0 1 ~ 0C
 U-                                                                                                                                          C)
     0
           Wa-c         a)  )   a)  a)   a)   a)    a)   a)    a)   a)    a)   a)   U)    a)     a)    a)     U)    U)    ao   U)  a)    a)    a)    a)
                                                           59

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
          N       V                             t          C        C     M        N           0M04CN                           00
                                 -000    S00o)0                                             c   m!,R    00                     0 !0:D             :
          1         0
         >EF   ~  - c                          co    0-    a)    (D                    b            0)           r-0)            00    m)
                              (o000
 cz                                                                                              I       II            I
                    2
                                                                  C-      0 3   Q )   0 3 0    )        C:,)~C,-                   Co            0
                                                                                          00   00
       o 0                                 -     -    -      -         -     -    -m-      -
                        C)     C)   C)C                                                                C:   C
                           (I))
                                                         0                                              EE
          -             0
     x        cc-                        CM.......D--                                                  0D   0D         00C
                      p                  C14                                         ~CM                    CM              4
 0
 CD
            E                                                                              06     C
       CO                                                                                                                                  00mwmwmw  o0 o 0c ~~ 00 00 c c
                        >       2E EE2EE                   EE          EE         EE2E E               -2-2           -2-2-22                     a
                         (0o0m0m            0(0(0m0(0m0(0m0m0m(m(m                                      00              000                 o
                         x                        XX          XX             XX             XX          U)   Ch       w) U)       U      w
    .2                   0     00        00          00          00        0    0    000                0~>        0                          00
                                                                              00O0-0O004               (D                -0-               CD
                                                   1
                  0CM             D CDM          (         00CM IT (D       CM         CM      6q       CMC            ?10?O           0      O
   U
                                    a)   a    ) a    ) a     )    a     )    a)   a)   a)   an   a)     a)    a)      a)      a)    a)   U)       a)
                         U)     U)    U)   U)     U)    U)    U)    U)  U)   U)   U)   U)   U)   U)     U)    U)      U)      U)    U)   U)      U)
                                                                     60

WO 2010/090677                                                                                        PCT/US2009/067538
               CD    0
             E                                                                                             CD
                    cI      CDJICJ\J I                        111D1
                                              0                                                                                 S~0
                    E
 0     0   <
 00~
                                                                                                                               ~~00
                                       04     LO)       LO  c     'IT          O (0        D         a)          ~     N         -Y   )0  .
 o0
                                    001
                     co                                                                                                                     EE
                           00
      0
                            Co           D    n-    LO  n         CD                                       CD           CD
 o00
                           a)0          0)     Lp       0       0    0
                                                                                                           L00
                                                                                                       10001O00
                          r- r-                0                                                     M'N1M- M\1 M0N00"  M        1
                                        E
                                       -E
                         ) 00              C: 0-        0               m     -      0-m             (         0     0            0D(    D(
                                                                                                 maawwwui
   >1                                         > >>         >>>             >>        > >>
                                                                                                                            000 5UL UL
                                     cu
        .2                                 ~                m                       0- a
        ~~0                     0                                      .O     .O         C.C DC  D    LO         OL       t
    0
                 Fd                     U)           U) U)c cd) C)        ci) C) co) C)      Ci6   U) Ui) Mi co) C)       Ui)     C)
                        2     2         02       00          00             00           0              00          0             0222. 22.  2 .
                                 00      0       tt          oo             tt           t        0o                o       L)0 L )0 L
                                        cu     cu CuC    coC co c                 C cuOaC a
                                                                           C mOC coC          o        o    cu    o  m   cu       co
                        CO UI)                 i w-jj i             i         i       ij      i         J -      -j J             -i
                                                           61

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                               PCT/US2009/067538
             .S-      V=       'tC        r     04I          C)N       N   r     N       ;F-             F- It       1f      C 1  04
                     C    00--                             -     -           --                        --               -O
                  F-     0
     = 0         fla CN        -
                               CD)                                                                                                                 0
             0   >       E
      0
         C)              U)
                                     00
                               00     (.0    co      mO - (01           ;1 1      1010       F0     10 (0                            F0 (
  0                                                                                                                      00          0
        S     0                                                    -
M            0                                                                                                                                     0
  o-          0
  0
  CD
                 0              C\J
                                          C2
                                            ~       co
                                                       -     oI                       -       ccC
                                                                                                      Y)-     -    -    - CjC
                o                o        c         c      w000            0006wc 006 owcow                                        0      6 0
 CO       CL                    m    w          w          w           m         m      mm         mm         mco        o  (00000 0 00    o00
          0x                         x      xx       x       x x        xx       x       xx        x      xx       x      xx     x      x x
                                0    0                                                                                                   00 010 0~ 0   000
                                d       5 -     5    -      57         57        5    7           -     5    7     5   7     -5 00     -0-0        m    a
     ..
        wU        0.                                                                                                                               a)    al)
                                   Cl n c o) Wl       U)      Cl)    U) Vl) (n)    l)    (1)    Ul)    co  Cl)    Cl    )   Cl) C)   l)   Cl)  Cl   )  0
                                                         o      o       0     0000 00000                          00000                             0 )0
                                                                          62

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                             PCT/US2009/067538
                                                                                                                                            C:
              N-     .                                                                                                                            -C
                                         1
                                                                                                                          F= a)                                           0
              o-      0                                                                                                                                                     r - 0
                                          E                                                 C)     CD
                                                                                     mE                                   _:    (Da
                                       0                                                                                  0u
                      0
                                                                    C-a                  C:,               CDCC           --
                                                                                                                           0M       *       ~      *
                               >                                                                                                  xa               -0         _0
               _                                                                                                          0       00<
                                    -0_0
 0                                                                                                                       75                ~)                  a
                           C.                  CD co             CD    COL            --           0                                       )      T
                                                                                                    111                  0            0               L7       0
                             o           ~       ,   a     a, a,    ,   a,    a,           aa      ~Lo                                                         co
                                                                                                                                Cf) =                          0)a
                                                                                         F       F                        E     (Da            0    Ca
                                                                                                                         C:) 0
                                                                                                                                   U     E
                           x                                                        T- T-                                                    o        au
           0U                                                                         00     0-   00 cu              00                              0
     0    .0                a)                 a)    a)          a)     a)                        -Z                            CD                  (
                                                                      00                                                                                       a)
                        co~~~a                          a,                           E                 l                  c
                        .2~C                                                        C)C            )75                               -a
                                            CL
                                                                                    LO X0                                 F                         a,
                            0:                  0  0                                0               0F60                                750
M              0                                                                                                         E       za                 0
                       F-00                                                                                                                                             E
                                    0                                                                                                    0g.
  Os        -                                                                 -             CN     CO
                                                                                                   04
                                         cc                                                                                     -                     C)        a
                                                                                                                                                              a,
                                     0                                                                                                   r                     a)
                                                                                                                                        C:          a
                                               CD  CD                        CD)                   C                  Da                CdD                   CDC
   2   N       E                                                                                                                         2          F         au
                                                                                                                                                          0    a
                                                                                                                         --       --               .-         x1
                                                                 -                           -  -                                                           -        ca
                 >U)
                                 a,        ) a, ) a,
                                         C/)   Ci)   Ul)
                                                          a,
                                                                 c)
                                                                   a,
                                                                        m)
                                                                          a, a
                                                                                m)
                                                                                       ,
                                                                                      m)
                                                                                              ,
                                                                                             m)
                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                    cu
                                                                                                              a,
                                                                                                            U)-
                                                                                                                  a,   a     ~     0         ~       C           a,
                                                                                                                                                                   )
                                     0       0                 0       0           000              0         000             C   i)                           0
                                                                                                                                               -00
                   0        O
                                        (D
                                         L
                                             CDc
                                                O
                                                       Ca        Ca
                                                                 L      O
                                                                          COLO
                                                                                    I z
                                                                                        Ca Ca      (D      Ca
                                                                                                   C14~ .zzO~ LO
                                                                                                                  COLO      E         0
                                                                                                                                        7           cu-~-     a
                            a,           a,     a,   a,          a,     a       ,    a        ,     a,      a                          ~            m            )~
        LL~
                                                             ~-             HFH HHH-H               H       HHH~a-O~a00
                                                                                                                                  0                 C:         G
                                                                                                     63-

WO 2010/090677                                          PCT/US2009/067538
                      0
                      E
              F-      0           E
         00~0
      0)       a)       0    )'
 Qo0                      a)c
           W
                            a
      Q        C) co
       00
              (J)                _
                          00
                          va,
 x                        0
   Cc               0
              o                               o
                                 0            C)
 p                                        0
                          -0a              0  1q  0
           z                    C-4       0
                                    --
             E                            0V  LO
            I
 0                                       00    0
                                _n        0
                           0-                  a,
                          0                    a)
                          Co0D
                                 a)       ao   a
                                       0  W~
                             a             aa
     LU      CLa
                                          2    3:
                          (D~              E
                                                    641

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
[0129] Depending on the amounts added, the addition of various buffers to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions comprising sucrose and PVP 17 affected the initial recovered potency or long-term stability of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 3). For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising about 20 mg sucrose and 10 mg PVP 17 resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 77%
(Table 2). However, the addition of a sodium citrate buffer to this formulation resulted in an increased
recovered potency of about 87% to about 100% (Table 3). Furthermore, the addition of an about pH 5.5
sodium citrate buffer to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 20 mg sucrose and 10
mg PVP 17 resulted in at least one year long-term stability when stored at either ambient or below freezing
temperatures (Table 3). Likewise, although not increasing the degree of initial recovered potency observed,
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 20 mg sucrose and 10 mg PVP 17 in about
pH 5.5 to about pH 6.5 potassium phosphate buffer resulted in significantly increased long term stability of the
formulations stored at ambient temperatures (Table 3).
[0130] In Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose and PVP 17, the addition of
sodium chloride to the formulation did not appear to have a great effect on initial recovered potency.
However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 20 mg sucrose and 10 mg PVP 17
in sodium chloride resulted in significantly increased long term stability of the formulations stored at ambient
temperatures (Table 3).
[0131] As another example, although no detectable recovered potency was observed when about 5 mg to
about 50 mg of sucrose (about 0.5 (w/v) to about 5% (w/v)) was used as the sole excipient, or when about 50
mg of PEG 3350 (about 5% (w/v)) was used as the sole excipient, in combination about 35% to about 44%
increased recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient was exhibited (Table 3).
[0132] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose and a non-protein polymer also
expanded the range of excipient amounts effective at producing initial recovered potency and long-term
stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For example, when used as the sole excipient, lactose was
effective at increasing recovered potency at about 10 mg to about 50 mg (about 1% (w/v) to about 5% (w/v))
(Table 2), whereas PVP 17 was effective at increasing recovered potency at about 5 mg to about 20 mg
(about 0.5% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) (Table 2). However, about 5 mg of lactose (about 0.5% (w/v)) in
combination with from about 0.5 mg of PVP 17 (about 0.05% (w/v)) increased initial recovered potency of the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 52% (Table 3) (each of these excipients at these amounts alone
resulted in no detectable recovery, see Table 2). As another example, about 5 mg of lactose (about 0.5%
(w/v)) in combination with from about 50 mg of PVP 17 (about 5% (w/v)) increased initial recovered potency of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 52% (Table 3) (each of these excipients at these concentrations
alone resulted in no detectable recovery, see Table 2).
[0133] Furthermore, the addition of lactose, at amounts this sugar alone is ineffective to produce initial
recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient, appeared to enhance initial recovered potency in
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of PVP 17 sufficient to produce an initial
                                                       65

    WO 2010/090677                                                                     PCT/US2009/067538
recovered potency as the sole excipient. For example, about 5 mg of lactose (0.5% (w/v)) in combination with
about 5 mg to about 20 mg of PVP 17 (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) increased initial recovered
potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 57%, about 65%, and about 49%, respectively
(Table 3). This recovered potency is significantly higher that the recovery observed when PVP 17 is used as
the sole excipient (See Table 2, 5 mg of PVP 17, 0.5% (w/v) alone at about 48%; 10 mg of PVP 17, 1% (w/v)
alone at about 52%; 20 mg of PVP 17, 2% (w/v) alone at about 43%). Similarly, about 0.5 mg of lactose
(0.05% (w/v)) in combination with about 5 mg to about 20 mg of PVP 17 (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v))
increased initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 65%, about 47%, and
about 65%, respectively (Table 3). In general, this recovered potency is significantly higher that the recovery
observed when PVP 17 is used as the sole excipient (See Table 2, 5 mg of PVP 17, 0.5% (w/v) alone at
about 48%; 10 mg of PVP 17, 1% (w/v) alone at about 52%; 20 mg of PVP 17,2% (w/v) alone at about 43%).
[0134] Similar results where seen when lactose was combined with PEG 3350.                       Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 50 mg lactose (about 5% (w/v)) resulted in an initial recovered
potency of 35% (Table 2), whereas, Clostridial toxin compositions comprising about 50 mg PEG 3350 (about
5% (w/v)) resulted in no initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). However,
Clostridial toxin compositions comprising about 50 mg lactose (about 5% (w/v)) and about 50 mg PEG 3350
(about 5% (w/v)) resulted in an initial recovered potency of 53% (Table 3). Enhancement of initial recovered
potency was also observed in Clostridial toxin compositions comprising about lactose and PEG 3350 in
various buffered solutions (see Table 3).
[0135] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a sugar and a surfactant resulted in an
effective increased recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient over a
wide range of excipient amounts. For example, both sucrose alone and Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no
detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). Surprisingly Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising from about 1.25 mg to about 60 mg of sucrose (about 0.125% (w/v)
to about 6% (w/v)) in combination with about 0.25 mg to about 50 mg of Poloxamer 188 (about 0.025% (w/v)
to about 5% (w/v)), all resulted in increased recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient of
about 43% to about 115% (Table 3). In addition, all such combinations resulted in long-term stability of at
least one year of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient when stored at least at below freezing temperatures
(Table 3).
[0136] Interestingly, in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose and Poloxamer
188, the addition of various buffers to the formulation did not appear to have a great effect on initial recovered
potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient when stored at below freezing
temperatures (Table 3).          Surprisingly, however, the addition of various buffers to Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose and Poloxamer 188 dramatically improved long-term
stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient when stored at ambient temperatures (Table 3). The addition
of sodium chloride to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose and Poloxamer 188
                                                       66

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
did not appear to have a great affect on initial recovered potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient (Table 3).
[0137] Similar results where seen when sucrose was combined with polysorbate 80. Clostridial toxin
compositions comprising about sucrose as the sole excipient resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). However, Clostridial toxin compositions comprising about 10 mg
to about 20 mg sucrose (about 1% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) and about 0.25 mg to about 2.5 mg polysorbate
80 (about 0.025% (w/v) to about 0.25% (w/v)) resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 78% to about
102% (Table 3). The enhancement of long term stability was also observed in Clostridial toxin compositions
comprising about sucrose and polysorbate 80 (see Table 3).
[0138] As another example, both sucrose alone and Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable
recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2).              Surprisingly Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising from about 1.25 mg to about 60 mg of sucrose (about 0.125% (w/v)
to about 6% (w/v)) in combination with about 0.25 mg to about 50 mg of Poloxamer 188 (about 0.025% (w/v)
to about 5% (w/v)), all resulted in increased recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient of
about 43% to about 115% (Table 3). In addition, all such combinations resulted in long-term stability of at
least one year of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient when stored at least at below freezing temperatures
(Table 3).
[0139] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose and Poloxamer 188 also expanded
the range of excipient amounts effective at producing initial recovered potency and long-term stability of the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For example, when used as the sole excipient, lactose was effective at
recovering the Clostridial toxin active ingredient at about 10 mg to about 50 mg (about 1% (w/v) to about 5%
(w/v)) (Table 2), whereas Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial
toxin active ingredient (Table 2). However, about 0.625 to about 5 mg of lactose (about 0.0625% (w/v) to
about 0.5% (w/v)) in combination with about 0.3125 mg to about 2.5 mg Poloxamer 188 (about 0.03125%
(w/v) to about 0.25% (w/v)) increased initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to
about 73% to about 107 (Table 3) (each of these excipients at these amounts alone resulted in no detectable
recovery, see Table 2). In addition, all such combinations resulted in long-term stability of at least one year
of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient when stored at least at below freezing temperatures (Table 3).
[0140] Furthermore, the addition of Poloxamer 188, at amounts this surfactant alone is ineffective to produce
recovery of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient, appeared to enhance initial recovered potency in Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of lactose sufficient to produce an initial recovered
potency as the sole excipient. For example, about 20 mg to about 55 mg of lactose (about 2% (w/v) to about
5.5% (w/v)) in combination with about 5.5 mg to about 20 mg of Poloxamer 188 (about 0.55% (w/v) to about
2% (w/v)) increased initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 63% to about
108% (Table 3). This recovered potency is significantly higher that the recovery observed when lactose was
used as the sole excipient (See Table 2, 10 mg of lactose, 1% (w/v) alone at about 15%; 20 mg of lactose, 2%
                                                      67

     WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
(w/v) alone at about 41%; 50 mg of lactose, 5% (w/v) alone at about 35%).
[0141] Depending on the amounts added, the addition of various buffers to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions comprising lactose and Poloxamer 188 affected the initial recovered potency or long-term
stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 3). For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions comprising about 20 mg lactose and 10 mg Poloxamer 188 resulted in an initial recovered
potency of about 63% (Table 2). However, the addition of an about pH 5.5 to an about pH 6.5 buffered
solution to this formulation resulted in an increased initial recovered potency of about 81% to about 115%
(Table 3). Likewise, the addition of a buffer to these formulations resulted in enhanced long-term stability of at
least one year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures. Similarly, the addition of
sodium chloride to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose and Poloxamer 188,
although not having a dramatic affect on initial recovered potency, greatly increased long-term stability of the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient, especially at when stored at ambient temperatures (Table 3).
[0142] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising two non-protein polymers resulted in
enhanced recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For example,
the addition of Dextran 3K, at amounts this non-protein polymer alone is ineffective to produce initial
recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient, appeared to enhance initial recovered potency in
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amount of PEG 3350 sufficient to produce an
initial recovered potency as the sole excipient. Thus, compositions comprising both Dextran 3K and PEG
3350 exhibited enhanced initial recovered potency in water (compare 0% initial recovered potency of PEG
3350 alone (Table 2) with 47% initial recovered potency Dextran 3K and PEG 3350 together (Table 4)); in
sodium citrate buffers (compare 76% initial recovered potency of PEG 3350 alone in sodium citrate buffer (pH
5.5)(Table 2) with 92% initial recovered potency Dextran 3K and PEG 3350 together in sodium citrate buffer
(pH 5.5)(Table 4); and 57% initial recovered potency of PEG 3350 alone in sodium citrate buffer (pH
6.5)(Table 2) with 82% initial recovered potency Dextran 3K and PEG 3350 together in sodium citrate buffer
(pH 6.5)(Table 4)); potassium phosphate buffers (compare 80% initial recovered potency of PEG 3350 alone
in potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 2) with 101% initial recovered potency Dextran 3K and PEG
3350 together in potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 4); and 0% initial recovered potency of PEG
3350 alone in potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5)(Table 2) with 102% initial recovered potency Dextran 3K
and PEG 3350 together in potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 4)); and histidine buffers (compare
72% initial recovered potency of PEG 3350 alone in potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 2) with 82%
initial recovered potency Dextran 3K and PEG 3350 together in histidine buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 4)).
[0143] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PVP 17 and PEG 3350 expanded the range
of excipient amounts effective at producing initial recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredient. For example, when PVP 17 was used as the sole excipient at ranges from about 30
mg to about 250 mg (about 3% (w/v) to about 25% (w/v)), no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial
toxin active ingredient was observed, whereas PEG 3350 only resulted in initial recovered potency at amounts
above about 60 mg (about 6% (w/v))(Table 2). However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
                                                      68

    WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
comprising about 30 mg to about 40 mg PVP 17 (about 3% (w/v) to about 4% (w/v)) in combination with about
20 mg to about 30 mg of PEG 3350 (about 2% (w/v) to about 3% (w/v)) resulted in initial recovered potency of
about 80% (Table 4)(each of these excipients alone resulted in no detectable initial recovered potency).
Likewise, when PEG 3350 was used as the sole excipient at ranges above about 60 mg (about 6% (w/v)), no
detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient was observed, whereas PVP 17 at about
5 mg to about 20 mg (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) resulted in an initial recovered potency (Table 2).
However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 40 mg to about 55 mg (about 4%
(w/v) to about 5.5% (w/v)) of PEG 3350 in combination with about 20 mg (about 2% (w/v)) of PVP 17 resulted
in about 68% initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (20 mg (about 2% (w/v)) of
PVP 17 alone resulted in a 43% initial recovered potency)(Table 4). This enhanced initial recovery was also
observed when various buffered solutions were added to the formulations (Table 4).
[0144] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a non-protein polymer and a surfactant
resulted in an effective increased recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient. For example, both Dextran 3K and Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered
potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). Surprisingly Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions comprising both Dextran 3K and Poloxamer 188 resulted in an initial recovered potency of the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient of about 78% to about 98% (Table 4). Furthermore, this synergistic effect
was also observed in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 3K and Poloxamer
188 in buffered solutions (Table 4). Both Dextran 3K and Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable
recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient in formulations comprising sodium citrate buffers or
potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5) (Table 2). However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising Dextran 3K and Poloxamer 188 resulted in about 82% to about 100% initial recovered potency
with the addition of sodium citrate buffer (pH 5.5); about 85% to about 99% initial recovered potency with the
addition of sodium citrate buffer (pH 6.5); about 82% to about 103% initial recovered potency with the addition
of potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5); about 103% to about 125% initial recovered potency with the addition
of histidine buffer (pH 5.5); and about 115% to about 134% initial recovered potency with the addition of
histidine buffer (pH 6.5). In addition, such buffered Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions resulted in
enhanced long-term stability for at least one year. Similarly, enhanced recover was seen in Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 3K and Poloxamer 188 in potassium phosphate buffer (pH
5.5) (compare 66% initial recovered potency for Dextran 3K alone (Table 2); 39% initial recovered potency for
Poloxamer 188 alone (Table 2); and about 90% to about 120% initial recovered potency for Dextran 3K and
Poloxamer 188 together (Table 4). Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 3K and
Poloxamer 188 in potassium phosphate buffer (pH 5.5) also demonstrated enhanced long-term stability when
stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
                                                     69

 WO 2010/090677                                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
                  1            ~                  C:) 'I     N   CD . N   C. N     00   0C          C14    0D     0J 00   0  C14
                    E                                                                                        c
          00
       00
                                          10ccc                        cc       i              ~        ~       cccc
       o     CL
 0                       -u                                       "I  "I' C, N- 0,    C4-  0) C4    t
                      CDNC            F--      0CONNN              DC)cqN
 0
 0           o
          EE
0~
 E   *
 0                    LOC       DC     oL       CD CD         U) LO CD    CD CD) LoL        DC      DL            DC      CD U.)
        0      0      LoN      M0z    L n           MI LOLoN 0               ,TLOLo0 O 000O                     o04 00,I0
                      LJW           W       U     W        W       W      WW          W       W       W      J      W      U
                                                                                                         00         0   .
       UCn             D C      D C    D C       D C       D C      D CD C    D C      D C      D C        D C    D C     D C
   U           C      OL       OL      OL       OL        OL      OL      L  OL        OL      OL        O L      OL      O
               >1     Cl  l    l  l    Y   l    o   M    c    ?   l    0  m  m    m   C)c      o  c      l    l
 Cu.
 E
                            <U                                                                                               X
                                                           70

 WO 2010/090677                                                                                                            PCT/US2009/067538
                     _      C14             C4 00        ,to                   C4 00   D0 t 0     00 m 10 10) CD 0          0D 00      CD    1D 0    Cl) co
                  a,0)0                 -    0)0)        P- co       cc r-       10      -          o -2               C\J C2 \    ~    '
                             1- N           O 0 O0 t0    Ng     0 00   0   0         zn    )   I oooYoC            ooo0000o-             o     oo)C
       G)            Mu     r-, 0)0-
                                   .       0oD0m[,0    ~         o       o                         NCD            C    003     0.
 2o                                                                                                                                cc           coN-~j OC
                          0
 0u
                                                                         C)     C)            CD CD010CD1CD C DO0011 CD CDCD10101C                  C
 0                      0
 z           0     E))0
    w           )       c c         )C       )c         DC            )C         D            CDC        DC        DC       DC I OC                )C
           c                =   ~-    m-      )00(           00 - o    -       (               -m            c     0m0
 0
 0
           EE
   0x          0
IT     .E
                                                                                                                                   E             E
               m                                              ,                         CD CD      N CD       C   N     CD CD N      CD CD NCD
                      Ex                                                                0xx            Nx              Nx                    xxx
         0J                          C      O       D       C         O        O            0       0          0        0      0       0       0
                            LJ         U     W      J       U      W       W               o        o          oox5                            5
                                                                                                          10
      .0                     10o000                                                               co000          01000100010      010m001m00
    0   U         C0        10   LO LO      CO     10 10 LO        LO CO         10     C       10      0 D 10         0    w 10   0 D 10       C      10
                                               Lo     D   D     D    O L     (    C ( LO (DLO(DCD             LO    CD   C   CO (    Cz O    CD C) W
         .0    ~x0x                                xxx               xxx                ccLxx)      -(
                                                                                                    xx4        O    xxxoL        xxo    )< xxxlL)
                                                                                                                                        OI       c
                            0)a          )a              )    0000                           ))0         )     W  )    000          )   0000
         ElO                                            0000000000
                  o7

 WO 2010/090677                                                                                                 PCT/US2009/067538
                       aC                    D            D     r-    r-    )    -            0    o0)                 D0           -
      EE0                     'I co      CY  l       0coC                                                              o
                  co r       C)       C~cJ             '           (. CO LO          mO00C                  00r     0  0-a       -I
    0
                  C  E
      Z)    0~E0          ~~                       0                                       000000
      ca             0                 1- LO                                                                                                   C
         m                    c    NLO         t     O L                   0    04   LO 1co0       CD     )      a)        NL0           )qLO   W
                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                COC         CA                                                 -l     -O0              a)
 0
      01L1L1LL                                                                  1oW0)W c     D(   - LO 10 LO 10101010O1O01D0101010O10
 x            0                                                    0)
                o                 EE        EEEE                       ~~E           E      E2EE            EE        EE       EEE E
~-x
 0           .2                       -7                                                 -    -           -
                  mC          CD-N-          CD- CD- NN          CND            CNJ
 0
 0              0           N       LO Cj            LOC               10 \          Loc    O04\    Lo  CN        LO   N       L 1CJ            1O
                E
   0z
       Eo                   C 00 c~o~00 00OOOCCC     OC00C
                                                    00OO        0      o0         o0000            o0000000c             C             000coC
                          E      E EE            EE        E      E2E           E E EEE                E EE              EE2EE2E
      co~                  x x       x    x     )(    x      x        X            XX           XX           XX         XX            x      X XX
                          0     00         0D000000000000000                                                          00                00      0
 Cn
 U- Z
                                 SCD                                  CD CD CD CD               CC CDCD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD CD
                                 XX            <X )       < XX<                XXXXX                                                          XX X=) X
                          0)0)0)0)0)00                           0)0)0)0)0)0)0)0)0)0)0)0)0)0000
                                                                   72

  WO 2010/090677                                                                        PCT/US2009/067538
                    0 N00             CI                         omc     oI       I:      IO             IDIq Io
        a,          E         )r       2      :,r     D o U)t       D ( - (
      o            co
                            mw m                      m m n 1,I. . -(              IDNc  -w o;
     00
               -     - C) C)C)   1     D      CDC     C     D DCDC       D  Cd            )    DD         D
  0                0                               ,a      a a
     C)     c
  0  >                       CL-              -~0                                      ~ ~     r  -    ,
  z0        E
  0a Q
                       CO- -         - N       DC      DmI          DC
                        -        - --                  o(0 00000000          000000000
  0  J    ~                        ,     ~    11111111111111111111
                       Lo  10    co   10                        LOU)L   oW    D(      o   D(0L    OL        OL
                       Mx T- IxT              o4L                -mT     :T    :T                   -T       -M
                         000               CD       CDDC         CDOCD DCDCDCDOC)CD C D CDCD CD C
 C,
-             E
                       04C   :) C : Cu                             C%4
      xxx
        2DO            00 00co 0
                 .2-   ?   C12 273

WO 2010/090677                                                                            PCT/US2009/067538
                     c    I I I I         I                                          Lo Mr - r r - w( oC
                     0
0
             -CL
z             0Ea                                                                                )a       )0       )0
                75-                             m'
0     a                                0-                    wm)                    0c         r-   0 -           0
0
00
Q               0
        0    ~                                     CDC
                                                    CD CDCDCDCD  CD CD CDaC
                                                                                  EE      EE E E E E E E
                       r3O0       04  (J(            4
                                                    CD                 04 CD        -   -  -    -00000000
a)
0                0      O 10 D C:) CD 10  1O C:  CD c)J 10) 1O    D  D  C:) 10     -          O C'    O - O 10    'J
    -            E
Zu'
      .0w                                                                               w       0w        0w      0c
          .2                                                                         2C    2?       2     22      22
      LU          i    C    DC     DC     DC     DC      DC       DC    DC
          LU     C      OL     OL     OL        LO      LD     OD              LOLOLL O )a)a)a       a )      )a)a
                    >1   lDDD l C)C)                         ococ       o                  D D
                                                                                     Dl EEE2          DC D    Dc D
                 0     C) c    m o m co Cl)CO       l) l) l) m C) m Cl)            cu a u c cu ca            o7-      c

          WO 2010/090677                                                                                                                PCT/US2009/067538
                  1               N          OC        0C4t            *C      ,     t0         D[-        00              0C   C4               -t     10O       N   1O0tL
                            a,                c  CD 0 o         C)   r~- r-      cc   (D   co (D      I- r-    r-   LO         co      m        ~       co           cc
0~~~~~~~    r                                         Ii           C OC N                    lC)L 1 00A000                                   -000000C C
                     C)                 0       ~00       0         00       00      0                -   OC         )(         .00  I            PI   co 00 )0 0) m
                                           cNa C CD 0:        CD C:      CD C:, CD N-c, I                C  ~ CD    0D C:, CC:,CD 1 :0 CD - :,               CD        C:,
              00
                                E                                C
               Z.D....Q E           00                                         0       0    .O.O.                       O                           .a
              0.        -                    DC       DC        D    C      DC         DC        DC                          C     ) CLO l    CD)    aD a. CD      CD
                                                                                                                                00         00
                                                                -~~
                                                                 --       -       --     --                                                                 0    0
                                              u  MC             d      t ,I          N    ,-    M    M   ,          t     ,-    O L      O (        O C               '
                         r_                4                         44L                                      n66mm
                         0.............
        I0                                                                                                                     E10E10                   E    E
                            Eo          -xCJ         -
                                                                                                    c~
           0~
                             E                                                                                C)
                   2D                            o      0000m000mw0o                                c0w00                00w00             0m00 m000
                          .2                  2?       2?       2?          22        2    2?        2?         2?         2?        2       22         22        22
                    UX ci                  a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a
                            4-C                                            0000000000
                                            .                                        E2EEEE2EE
                 0)
                co                          x    xNx        xNx        x   x   x          x     x    x   x     x   x      x         x    x  x    N-x         Nx
                                            a0~aa     0a0a0a0a0aa                    0a0a0a0a0a0a-a a a a2a.-2a2a.2a2a.
                                            0aaa 0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 0 0 0 0 0.0a0a0                                                                      a0.
                                                                                                              L
                                                                                              75LO

WO 2010/090677                                                                             PCT/US2009/067538
      CQCA
           0                   10I " 1 00 m mc 00Cc               DCo    ~
                                                                        4C      o   DItC
                                                                                      o        o      0N0         O0
                   Q      or     r-  m     F    ,   -   m   o                          Lom       m  oo-c    oo -   oc
0
                       a    D                    D   D        DCD  D      '0CD   CD                     CDC C D D CD C
        0            0
             C
           E
0     >                                                          C               -
z0           E
0
         C                                                                               -   -       -    -
    U
    x         0                                                                        z    z   z   z   z   z    z    z
             U)          aU                         a   a       a                   ,c 2    2w 2c        c  2a        2
     IEETOEEEE                                                                       EE       EE      EE      EE E
o,                       (CD
                         CD-    (C     C       ccc CDcCD~c
                                          CCDcCDc           CDcCD CDcC CDC C)C           D DCD        DCD      C C
 -0
E                                                           C4E4N
LL
                         C)C)       LO L
    0 U        0.L                    '  \   ~    :   :   )C)L       DC    ,   O C  DC)L         O  I     1        DC
                          0 0 0 0            D~l
                                           cc0                   O Cj'T      L   Cj"r  ~     - 0L ~      00       00
                    E       l0             CD        ~                              0      0       0cD
               0          (                              76

WO 2010/090677                                                                                         PCT/US2009/067538
                       0~    ~        r     ~          r-*I-~'00        QIC             DC      DC       DC 10 0)Mm
                                                                                                                 0 't M     -C C (
                    r_ C:             00 co-           I- N         -c                                                      0
0   u
                  o:                                                                             cCCC, :     :      : C :)  NC:,C
    00
                           Z1                   0                   E
                    0.                                  LO     LO                                               cc
0
                                                                                                                T- T-    - T
               .0       --     -      -
E                                                                              - )C )C
0                      E          0     O\    E       L2                                                        E LEE
Qo            o                    *N
                  0        0                                                      CD    -  -0  -C\    NL   CD
0~
        E                                          C1 N             -l
                                      LO           LO LO LO LO
     .      ~CD            L o      L    CN         -   -
                                                                               C) C         OLOL   CaC
                                                                                                    L    L  L
                                                                                                             D CL   O    D C)
       0X                        0X               )(   C          U)        O LO   n   C)  X6       N<   W    X  XX      XXX      L
          2D0o00                  o00        000                       CDCDC            0c         0     00      0m0
  -           Ei       -
          u0                                                               10 0     1 c0   0 10     0 10    0 O 10 L    10 L10
      0l      000              00          coL                                 O       CDL     O0tL              oLOI       c
              C *                                               77

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                PCT/US2009/067538
                                         0                                                                                        0
                                                                              C~)        C)        C\J      N-a)
                                                                                                        E                                            M
                             u0                                                                                C                !E             cOG)
                          c~>                                                                           CCc                                   _
          C)                                                                                            0o-
                0            -0        1         F      0                                                                                            a o
               (L                                                                                                    ~          0.                   a)-E
  o     ,          Q-
                         ~~'
                           0  0    00  0 0
                                             -C       C            D~      a       O~E
                                                                                                               CUa))                            a~)C
                     cu~.                        C)0)           m    0
                                                                                                                             A)C
                                                                                                        0-
                                                                                                                                                           0
      0.                                                                                                      LO                              t      E~
                                                                                                               >x
                                                                                                              LO                m                      )'
                                                                                                              0.-)              =5 :            ()        c
      0           -        -                                     ----                                                0
                    fLO         LO        L    LOO        LOLO       LO     LOLO                                                                     0    a)    f C
                       .0C                                                                                       0     0C   =                     :
                        0~~~~                                   00000~                                                                          (3) -......=
                                                                                               0)~             0L =)              0)U)
                                                                                                                     a)ua)
               LU                                                                                       0~     -&                   E            1:
       0E                                   E E             E         E         E                              (1 00            .                         aQ )
                                                                                                       40-     C:C o 0
                a.            -                                                                         0-    .c                0                         a
        E\                    NC4                          N       C        \J           -0                          0J..--~
                        O~:                                                                                      C                                        0)
x                                                                                                       x        =C                             L) a)G)
                                                   LO~        ~~ oC       ~    N~CO0    LOc   OL
                                                                                                                                                U) a)
    C14
                ~~~                                                                                     0      cu-
                                                                                                                     0.0~
                                                                                                                                  E
                   -       r-    - -        -    -    -     -    ,-     - - -         -                   ,     c~
               S~~  -      -    -~ ~            x          V            ----                            0                       U
        0            EEEEEu                    EEu EEEEEEG                             m cum )    ) a)  U)              .         U 3
                                                                                                                                       0
                                             oo       oo o-Foo~                                                                          c 0-       C)t
                                                                                                        :3     a)                 co                 a~)
                                                                                                        a)           7                                    a
         0   0     t      DLO              CDLO 'tccLO                 tCD         LO    O   O                    -- 0                                    cua)4
               .2                                                                                       E      Cl U               (j)
                                                                                                                                  CO            a)
                                                                                                                                                          -0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                        t      - 0V
                      x 0CDCD DDC CCDCDCD   EL
                                                                                  D DC C CD41
                                                                                                       -0
                                                                                                               00)
                                                                                                                0)
                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                ~(0
                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                1
                                m     m               l     l    l      1 C) C) C) C) C) C).                                    .0
                  0-C            -0         -     -0        L0          00         00      L0       0-    CO    -0                  0 -0         -0 :      3
                                                                   78

WO 2010/090677                      PCT/US2009/067538
               00
   CQCA
   00
          cc
0
o          0
          .2          CNI
E                     o
0                     00     0c
      0     ~ <C)j           -0
                             0
                             C
     00                Qa     a
    z.                o       0
                          C,
        cu~-                   u
                       c     a)
0L                 a,  -3     a)
        Ca,
        0                     0
                             a)
                   E    ,    4
                                 79

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
[0145] Similar degrees of improved initial recovery and long-term stability was observed in Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 40K and Poloxamer 188. For example, both Dextran 40K
and Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient
(Table 2). Surprisingly Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising both Dextran 40K and
Poloxamer 188 resulted in an initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient of about 85%
to about 102% (Table 4). This synergistic effect was also observed in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
compositions comprising Dextran 40K and Poloxamer 188 in buffered solutions. Both Dextran 40K and
Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient in
formulations comprising potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5) (Table 2).               However, Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 40K and Poloxamer 188 resulted in about 102% to about
115% initial recovered potency with the addition of potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5)(Table 4).
Furthermore, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 40K and Poloxamer 188 in
various other buffered solutions resulted in enhanced recovered potency and long-term stability of the
Clostridial toxin active ingredient. Thus, compositions comprising both Dextran 40K and Poloxamer 188
exhibited enhanced initial recovered potency in sodium citrate buffers (compare 81% initial recovered potency
of Poloxamer 188 alone in sodium citrate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 2) with 128% initial recovered potency Dextran
40K and Poloxamer 188 together in sodium citrate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 4); and 56% initial recovered potency
of Poloxamer 188 alone in sodium citrate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 2) with 100% initial recovered potency Dextran
40K and Poloxamer 188 together in sodium citrate buffer (pH 6.5)(Table 4)); and potassium phosphate buffer
(pH 5.5)(compare 39% initial recovered potency of Poloxamer 188 alone in potassium phosphate buffer (pH
5.5)(Table 2) with 103% initial recovered potency Dextran 40K and Poloxamer 188 together in potassium
phosphate buffer (pH 5.5)(Table 4)).
[0146] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PVP 17 and a surfactant resulted in an
effective increased recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient over a
wide range of excipient amounts. For example, when used as the sole excipient, PVP 17 was effective at
increasing recovered potency at amounts ranging from about 5 mg to about 20 mg (about 0.5% (w/v) to about
2% (w/v)). As discussed above, Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a
Clostridial toxin active ingredient. However, about 0.3125 mg to about 2.5 mg of PVP 17 (about 0.03% (w/v)
to about 0.25% (w/v)) in combination with from about 0.625 mg to about 5 mg of Poloxamer 188 (about 0.06%
(w/v) to about 0.5% (w/v)) increased recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 64%
to about 80% (each of these excipients at these concentrations alone resulted in no detectable recovery).
Similarly, about 30 mg to about 60 mg of PVP 17 (about 3% (w/v) to about 6% (w/v)) in combination with from
about 1.5 mg to about 5 mg of Poloxamer 188 (about 0.15% (w/v) to about 0.5% (w/v)) increased recovered
potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient to about 68% to about 77% (each of these excipients at these
concentrations alone resulted in no detectable recovery). The addition of various buffers or sodium chloride
to Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PVP 17and Poloxamer 188 did not appear to
have a great affect on initial recovered potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient
(Table 4).
                                                      80

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
[0147] Similar increased initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient was observed with
PVP 17 in combination with Polysorbate 80 (Table 4). Clostridial toxin compositions comprising about 5 mg to
about 10 mg of PVP 17 (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 1% (w/V)) as the sole excipient resulted in about 48% to
about 52 % recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). However, Clostridial toxin
compositions comprising about 5 mg to about 10 mg of PVP 17 (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 1% (w/V)) and
about 0.25 mg to about 2.5 mg polysorbate 80 (about 0.025% (w/v) to about 0.25% (w/v)) resulted in an initial
recovered potency of about 82% to about 90% (Table 4). The enhancement of long term stability was also
observed in Clostridial toxin compositions comprising about sucrose and polysorbate 80 (see Table 4).
[0148] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PEG 3350 and a surfactant resulted in
enhanced initial recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient when
formulated with certain buffered solutions. For example, both PEG 3350 alone and Poloxamer 188 alone
resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2). Similarly,
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PEG 3350 and Poloxamer 188 in water resulted in
no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 4). Surprisingly, however,
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PEG 3350 and Poloxamer 188 in buffered
formulations all resulted in effective recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient, and in many
cases resulted in enhanced initial recovery and long-term stability (Table 4). For example, Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 60 mg PEG 3350 (about 6% (w/v)) in about pH 5.5 sodium
citrate buffer resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 76%, whereas compositions comprising about
20 mg PEG 3350 (about 2% (w/v)) in about pH 5.5 sodium citrate buffer resulted in an initial recovered
potency of about 81%. However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 40 mg to
about 60 mg PEG 3350 (about 4% (w/v) to about 6% (w/v)) and about 3 mg to about 20 mg of Poloxamer 188
(about 0.3% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) in about pH 5.5 sodium citrate buffer resulted in an initial recovered
potencies of about 90% to about 101%. Long term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient was also
enhanced in these formulations (Table 4).
[0149] Similarly, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 60 mg PEG 3350 (about 6%
(w/v)) in about pH 6.5 sodium citrate buffer resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 57%, whereas
compositions comprising about 20 mg PEG 3350 (about 2% (w/v)) in about pH 6.5 sodium citrate buffer
resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 80%. However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising about 40 mg to about 60 mg PEG 3350 (about 4% (w/v) to about 6% (w/v)) and about 3 mg to
about 20 mg of Poloxamer 188 (about 0.3% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) in about pH 6.5 sodium citrate buffer
resulted in an initial recovered potencies of about 83% to about 98%. Long term stability of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredient was also enhanced in these formulations (Table 4).
                                                     81

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
                                                                                      75           0      00)
                                                     C)II    ~ o-        a)                                1
                                   0                                                                       =
                                                         oa        C                   u            0
           CL          CA   e IIQ
                           LL
                                              I~          CDL)      c                   0-         0           a
       Ca)                                                   oa)                                           E
                    >4      ~      ~                ~        CO3   C                 -v                     -_
           co                                                                   _    co-00
                         co                                                     a)    n L:         a
 ca  <        0                                            a          o                                    o
                       tci)                    > Im. Er
                                                           o-                          D0          CD a
           0        Fu>                                                     -.                              1- c,
              oo                                                                       a
                                                                   C)       =                      ()
                                                                          0a 10                                 CO
                                                                                         C
                      X~                                   -             a
                                                                        -w
                                                           0
                                                          -U   V)                     )                    Ei)
                                                                                                               06
                         0                                   :     Co                                      a)O
                                                                  --zC 0                a                  o
                                                                               a--000
                                      ..   C                             -t       O-V  0->
                    0                CD              C)    a))           2,                                (oC
                                                                                       a))                 0V              o         3
o                                                                      C                          -0    ) c) =
           oo                                                                        C) a)                 -0
                                                           a)      0                                         _ C-4
                                       C))      C)C C)                                 E
               E                                           E       cci
                                                               0                          0~                                       -0a    =
                                                                          V)                               C V     -0
           a.a                                                      ch~                 0    0        mic~ 8E                co      C
                                                                                                                                     C
             00-                                                                   0~                               0-             0)
                                                                                                      0
        x                                  aci                            0e         U)                       C )             C0
                CL~          - Cm.           .    .         CU     cL;                                                      0      a
                              CCOE0                                enE                 0Ea
                                                            ~                                                                      C)
.2                                                                      )                                 4E               . L/    cc
                                                          C0D        ,aD        CenD                                             0     a)   0
      E0                    LOLOLOLOLO                  E        LO                                e=                       2a
           0                                                       0~                  C:          0)                                )
                                                                  t                     0                  C   a)            au    a)
                   0o                                                     a)-                  cu    X              a         )
                                                                                     -ja .5           )
                                     0)W)0)a))                            L)           a)                                           N)'~
   LU           UE                          EE                            0                                           cu a)i,)
                                     xxx x          x      E                                       0-ciEi                   2
                            F- w                 oc                                                        >CO
                                                                                                           0                       m
                             0   D
                                 0    00 D 0. O 00   0)   <               0                                     ~                   4
                                                                       82

     WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
[0150] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a polyol and a surfactant also resulted in
recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For example, both mannitol alone and Poloxamer
188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 2).
Surprisingly Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising mannitol and Poloxamer 188 resulted in
recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 5).
[0151] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising an amino acid and a surfactant also resulted
in recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient.        For example, both glycine alone and
Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient
(Table 2). Surprisingly Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising glycine and Poloxamer 188
resulted in recovered potency of about 30% to about 35% of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 5).
                                                     Example 3
                          Non-Protein Stabilized Formulations - Three Excipients
[0152] Experiments were carried out to determine the effects of formulations comprising three different non
protein excipients on Clostridial toxin active ingredient recovery after reconstitution.          The non-protein
excipients tested were added separately or in combination with the listed buffers or salts (Table 6). All of the
formulations were compounded, lyophilized, reconstituted and potency assessed in the same manner, and
with the same Clostridial toxin active ingredient used in each formulation, except that each formulation was
prepared with different non-protein excipients or with different amounts of the non-protein excipients.
[0153] The tested formulations were compounded, processed, stored and reconstituted as described in
Example 1. Recovered potency was determined using the mouse LD 50 bioassay described in Example 1.
Recovery is expressed as a percentage and is calculated by dividing the potency of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient in the stored reconstitution formulation by the potency of the active Clostridial toxin ingredient
determined prior to its addition into the test solution. The results show that a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprising a Clostridial toxin complex could be stabilized when the formulation comprised three
non-protein excipients (Table 6).
[0154] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a sugar, a non-protein polymer and a
surfactant resulted in an effective recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient. For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 10 mg sucrose (1%
(w/v)) and about 10 mg PVP 17 (1% (w/v)) exhibited an initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient of about 77% (Table 4). Likewise, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about
10 mg sucrose (about 1% (w/v)) and about 10 mg Poloxamer 188 (about 1% (w/v)) exhibited an initial
recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient of about 59% (Table 4). Similarly, Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 10 mg to about 20 mg of Kollodon 17 (about 1% (w/v) to about
2% (w/v)) and about 10 mg to about 20 mg Poloxamer 188 (about 1% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) exhibited an
initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient of about 71% to about 82% (Table 4).
                                                       83

     WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 10 mg sucrose (about 1% (w/v)),
about 10 mg PVP 17 (about 1% (w/v)), and about 10 mg Poloxamer 188 (about 1% (w/v)), exhibited a
recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient of about 102% (Table 6). A similar increase in
initial recovered potency, of about 89%, was observed in Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising about 15 mg sucrose (about 1.5% (w/v)), about 30 mg PVP 17 (about 3% (w/v)), and about 15 mg
Poloxamer 188 (about 1.5% (w/v))(Table 6). The addition of various buffers or sodium chloride to Clostridial
toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose, PVP 17 and Poloxamer 188 enhanced initial
recovered potency or long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient , depending on the amounts
of each excipient added (Table 6).
[0155] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising two different sugars and a surfactant
resulted in an effective recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For
example, compositions comprising sucrose, lactose and Poloxamer 188 resulted in initial recovered potency
of about 81% to about 114% (Table 6). Surprisingly, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising
sucrose, lactose and Poloxamer 188 enhanced initial recovered potency with the addition of about pH 6.5
sodium citrate buffer. For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 20 mg
sucrose (about 2% (w/v)) and about 20 mg lactose (about 2% (w/v)) in about pH 6.5 sodium citrate buffer
resulted in 41% initial recovered potency (Table 3). Likewise, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions
comprising about 20 mg sucrose (about 2% (w/v)) and about 10 mg Poloxamer 188 (about 1% (w/v)) in about
pH 6.5 sodium citrate buffer resulted in 90% initial recovered potency (Table 3). Similarly, Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 20 mg lactose (about 2% (w/v)) and about 10 mg Poloxamer
188 (about 1% (w/v)) in about pH 6.5 sodium citrate buffer resulted in 81% initial recovered potency (Table
3). However, compositions comprising all three excipients in about pH 6.5 sodium citrate buffer resulted in
about 99% initial recovered potency (Table 6).
[0156] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a sugar and two different non-protein
polymers resulted in enhanced recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient. For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 5 mg to about 20 mg
of sucrose (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) and about 5 mg to about 15 mg PVP 17 (about 0.5% (w/v) to
about 1.5% (w/v)) resulted in initial recovered potency of about 58% to about 77% (Table 3). Likewise,
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 5 mg to about 50 mg of sucrose (about 0.5%
(w/v) to about 5% (w/v)) and about 5 mg to about 50 mg PEG 3350 (about 0.5% (w/v) to about 5% (w/v))
resulted in initial recovered potency of about 35% to about 44% (Table 3).             Similarly, Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising about 30 mg to about 40 mg of PVP 17 (about 3% (w/v) to about 4%
(w/v)) and about 20 mg to about 30 mg PEG 3350 (about 2% (w/v) to about 2% (w/v)) resulted in initial
recovered potency of about 80% (Table 4). However, compositions comprising all three excipients resulted in
about 82% to about 102% initial recovered potency (Table 6).
                                                   84

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                 PCT/US2009/067538
                    c,4  jo1cp     o        (p     )C "I-      c-        oo Lo  N cqx)o-)o)0)                                      0                0mC
             N      cc                              0     .   .- C o0 00                     0        0       0       -
                 a~ 0 ,                             r-   (Dr.   m (D w 0         .  0-                                   m m-        n               F
    0
                 0   It~ oo                 U')               o                                             o                 It0
          cc
                 o                          LO "I                   0O                                (.0 (D                 LO     LO LO           c
              75                             'I -     4-          o   C              z-F-c               o  a       o    C       o   c     o    c
                    LO 0 (0 0 CC
                                        r-       0       c co 0 o 00000
                                                         (D                                           100100101o                            001
          0                                                                                0III     I    a - a aa a            a    a    a     a     a
0
0s
      2             CD               ,         -r-1~r               r                   C)       LO     rd- N     N      N     N- -       -     -    -C
             aa                                         =
              0-               LOO            ~                             N  -DODO                                     -
    0.)
                    0     000                000000000000                      0                                    0      00         0  0     0
                                           010                                                 a-          00-t0-400000-           00000000000 0
             0      C        -  r- M                NJC~                                                                                                - NC, CJ
   U-        E                               -               N~          M                                                                      N Cj-
        LU
             aCL      2222222222222222222220002r.                                   .. r-I-      - ,-r-I-r                   r      r   r      I- ,
                       0    0    0     0      0      0     0    0     0   0  0 0   0     0 0   0      0    0-   0       0-   0     0- 0      0    0
                                       m         L0          C - -m -mC            mmmla                 -0-im0                         I m0
                                         LO                           85

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
           -             N                                         LO   LO C\|       c\4  -  c\     CO                                 o    LO   C     \|  C    oC
                                                                                   m am                                                          1   0      0o
                              00
                aI            E
           U.o
             *                (:n.
                       , M       -      o0     LO                 L LOLO       Cj M                 r-     P-                         ) LO L     N C\C      4 N
                                     -      oF        Z              0     -     m   c                 01-mm,-m                                              c
                              0
           2                 2
      0
      o-                    -C
                             45                                                                 -r         L              LO        Nm               c
  '~e                              oooo                       oooo~                                    ~ooo
                                                                                                        o( Dr.L            D       c              O
     -0                       03 oOL
            onen
      o0       EmCL~        .        oC)(0C               m))CCC               ('.JI-L                     UJC
                                   (.0         <O         oO " -                             co     LO LO cC
                                    o aoNoom ooo                                 4            moN CCo
                                   CD          e c             o cc            cco Cm                       o
                                                                                                            m             s-          )-M--                m <
xUL                                                  't -4                           It eO                   O LO       O - -
                          0                Z          Z                  ZZ              0i)                          0-Z      0-0 -0 0-0 Oa 6C
         E
         o
                  ~                ~~- s-- - -o --         o o        o - o o-
                                                           - - s-- s- s
                                                                                                              -s-s
                                            E E E E                 E E E EEE                                              E         E E         ?         ?3
0                          c~
       x           .                M                                                         -      -      -     -    -
                                     : o         O *     O                 O CC O            O          C C C O              C -   )   LO                 O C JO0
                                      -    0 M OL        c     ec              C
                                                                               e-                     -ee cec             e              -             O
                                   c           CDC         -C CD C C - cD              -     cD       Cs c          s    C l  s    C             s
       x                            m-
                                    O) w        m             o    O         O       O                000o co    0    co           00o L
   2                 .              0
       X-                                                                                       00D0                               cLD           CD0D
                                    S           w0o w     w    w
                                                               0      m   m     w                  000
                                                                                                   o            o00      o0         00000
  S    U             CL                                                                          0     0          0   0
                                                                                                                    NC\JCN
                                                                                                                                    LOO-         L0LO
                                                                                                            E     F=   E   F=       CNl
                                                                                                                                     E E                       co
                              rLO                                                                                                        LO
                                                     L86
  0                                            c
       x             C
                                    m cu m m w m m m w m                                      m w m m m w                             u co       co o      m co
                                    C)   ,   Nt -N- -I     N- C D-tNN                     CD            CD CD C :)C C) D                    Lo   N-N-)N-OC)N
                                                                                                                                              ~~ ~ r- D
                                           0~C           C'O                                         NtOl N-NN
                                                                                                            CM        -CO CO
                                                                                                                           N         a
                                                                                                 00               00P5
             LU             CL~                      0  00   0     0      0     0     0       0         0000                        Lo0           0
                                    22         22       2 2000022                             2          22          2 22            2      2     2022
                                                                                  86

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                           PCT/US2009/067538
                         NEc~c~         LO~1       1O               0                        C)C                                          ,      qNC
          LL
       -~           0
   0
   0        CLo0                                                                                           0   0 0    0          0          0          0
          <               D          C\J    L        D 1cc            CD
                            0601
                         CL                               c                     COL4C)       F
    -o
       a                                0'.)LO    Loc                 oM       co0                                    00F r          _            )0
                 o)      T-l       1:                -                z-~                                0       0      0        C     )          O
     20                          -             0           00                                                                                              o
                                         C                D-     D-                                                                167r                    1
                                                                                                              CDC CD     C      CD C)(       CD         DC
                  E                               C)      CD     C)                                C)1~X                                           0
                                                   16             O 0O          -O                  -
                    0                             C:       CDJ        CD
                                                                                           0
2                        16         00            '.'OC             CD
                                                                    '7             16          C)6        7    7    7       67     7     7        6
                                        4            C:)C   C,   0 0 0           D L            C D L                  C   D L               C    D    L
 caa     =                                                 1 1
                         LO
                         0   ~iC CD      C)        7
                                                        00
                                                           7)       7X)
                                                                         CD
                                                                                               XXX
                                                                                              CXXXOL             XXXC     Y
                                                                                                                     N 0 0 0 0 0
                                                                                                                                XXX
                                                                                                                                OL       C
                                                                                                                                       004           0
                                                                                                                                                        O
   Q-                    0           0     0      CDD                D~         m
m                                  c 00           C160               N          www              00                                     00     00    00      0
                                                    a)     a)        a)                       --
    LL       ~           LO
           o                          0       00>               1>        0        00       00           00        0000              0      00         00
                                                     0-          0-        0-0.     0-     0-        -         0- a       a      _   .       _a.aa
  LL N           E
                      0)           C     C             ))           CD CD       C     DC       DC           DC        DC        DC          DC          DC
                                            0        0)0            0           0)0)0)0)0)                (D00)0)0)0)0)0)D0)0)0)
                         C/)       0-C            l-0               0                0-0 I-HM                  0- IQ Q0C0QCC             CQQQ QQ QQ
                                    LOC:D            O        )     CD          C C L          )       )     ) LO C C C O D87CD L

WO 2010/090677                                                                                              PCT/US2009/067538
                       0
           UN a)~
           LL
          -~           0
    0
                         2 DC        DC           DC         DC       DC       D DC            DC     DC       DC     DC
           a)0
           n      c.toooooo                                                                             oooo
             0 CLI   ~)                        0        C
    0                  0             --
                                                           D D C c
                                                   I- CDC)cqLO             -          LO      CO04    D    O 14 CO 0110D0N
                02         a   a    a      a     a     a    a  a     a- a     0-a
       x        0
0
0s
       0                      7    7     LO           7    7   LO       77L                           O      7       O       77L
                                   CD0                  D LO            CD LO6O               CD LO          CDO-D
         2
                  aa             =
                          CD- CVo LOcLO CD CV) LO O co                             O C D coo     LOc co  O C Co ) cO LO co o     OcOc
m                 0X                        XX4NX                          XXX        0X                 CXX             CXX        X
   LL      ~      CE
    0)
                           0   0 00         00          00       00       00      00        0   00      00      0000          00      0
         0                     o                      CCY)     LoC       )     Cm ')     04   CY                                  C'C4m  O mL
      LL0(OCCO    EOOD9(O                N
                      0    D C\('D      (D(D(D(D0                 D D         D 0     0          0   00 CN       0'1   C 01 0(DCD      0
            2
             uX   0        l   l   ~o    (      Xo    c    Xl   l   X     Y X~l   l    l
                                                                      88

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                PCT/US2009/067538
                       0O                                                   M   m    (0  m               )     r
                                            4-            -                                                                        x
                                                                                                                                   a)
        U.                                                                                                                         45
               LL0
   0         ~       0
   Q-      O-                                                                                C                                     2.               a')
             cc                                                                                                                                 a
                                        0                Cd)
       <~ E                                                                 CDCDC2DC              wc           oDD
                                                                                                                               oo
               75                                                                                                                  m-I
                                                                                                                                   CD
                                                                                                                                    x
0U                                   i3i                                    33       3i3i         3i
     O.                         L~O U) OttOC         cDc      c       DOLO OLO     LOCD      w     C.0CD                            dDD      o V
            .2            -                                                                                                      - -- -a -
                        u       a-O) a-a0-a                  -a       -mmmmmmmm                                 0     .>                  _
                                 2                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                   LWV
                            .2
                             ...            ~    .--                                                                       0             .s;
                                                                                                               LOLO                L
                                                                                                                               0    U 0'        cu
                                            0                   CC)
                                          0                                                                                                                    0
                             x                                                                                            LO              a     U)
o0           ccD                           D D D D D D DC                  C C     C    C C    C     C         LOC          aO     -OL       L
                            CCDCDLo CCDCDLo CCDCDLo                                   DDCC(         D          LoC          aO        a'O
                  2~                                                             -x       -,       -r            -r                0            a
                         CDc          CVCLOLOC CV        LOc OCDc         CCLOL CD         CC     LOc      LO               D                   a' r
                           000000000000000                                                               04      0
                                                                                                                   ~0-~                0
                                   a                                                                                                            E0
     2                               ?2 ?2?                 2?      ?   T    -  -    W -     -    -    -a                  C-)                 :
                                               CLC
                                                      m    ~
                                                         ~mmwmmm        ~            ~          ~m     w     ~  c    uc d
                          x                                                                        x   xOOOOOOOOOLLLL)CLLL     00 0 0 0 0 00         x  aC) 0u
                                                                                                                          0        0           n
                                                                                                                           L) 2                             0w
                         0---000---00E---000                                                                  0-         0               0ca
                                                                                  89                                                           C

WO 2010/090677                                            PCT/US2009/067538
                               0
           00
                       0~      0
         00   CL
                <         E
                       r-      0    wc
           uCo                      CU
       x                        ocu
                                     = _
                   .2        ~    -       a)
        00                      a       -,
                                    =- .c
             to
       L)                      co       0m
       0
       2                             E
    ca                =a
                         E  ~  =\ CY V
0                              U        0           C   o
                                caa0)
                                     3)o0
0L~                                 = cu~T -         C
            4-                    0     C        )
  E                            _0 =
           0     0             r !E5           Co   -0
    N            0-
                 E.o00-                             c
                <               a)V
                                  0)
                                a      C             a,
                                m CO          -       a)
                      00                a)E
                                                2   .2
    n.
           x     CL           ~0- a)a) En, -0   - a
                          0a                        a)
                         I-      acaa           2
                                               a,   4
                             09

    WO 2010/090677                                                                    PCT/US2009/067538
[0157] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising two different non-protein polymers and a
surfactant resulted in an effective recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient. For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 3K, PEG 3350
and Poloxamer 188 resulted in initial recovered potencies of about 81% to about 104% when in water, about
88% to about 106% when in about pH 5.5 sodium citrate buffer, about 76% to about 96% when in about pH
6.5 sodium citrate buffer, about 87% to about 96% when in about pH 6.5 potassium phosphate buffer, about
82% to about 106% when in about pH 6.5 potassium phosphate buffer, about 70% to about 102% when in
about pH 5.5 histidine buffer, and about 65% to about 102% when in about pH 6.5 histidine buffer (Table 6).
Similarly, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PVP 17, PEG 3350 and Poloxamer 188
resulted in an effective recovered potency and long-term stability of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient
(Table 6).
                                                     Example 4
                      Non-Protein Stabilized Formulations - 150 kDa Clostridial Toxin
[0158] Experiments were carried out to prepare multiple formulations where the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient contained in the formulations was a 150-kDa Clostridial toxin (Table 7). The non-protein excipients
tested were added separately or in combination with the listed buffers or salts (Table 7). All of the
formulations were compounded, lyophilized, reconstituted and potency assessed in the same manner, and
with the same Clostridial toxin active ingredient used in each formulation, except that each formulation was
prepared with different non-protein excipients or with different amounts of the non-protein excipients.
[0159] The tested formulations were compounded, processed, stored and reconstituted as described in
Example 1, except that the Clostridial toxin active ingredient added was about 150 units of a 150 kDa
BoNT/A. Recovered potency was determined using the mouse LD 50 bioassay described in Example 1.
Recovery is expressed as a percentage and is calculated by dividing the potency of the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient in the stored reconstitution formulation by the potency of the active Clostridial toxin ingredient
determined prior to its addition into the test solution. The results show that a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical
composition comprising a 150-kDa Clostridial toxin could be stabilized when the formulation comprised two or
more non-protein excipients (Table 7).
[0160] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a sugar and a surfactant resulted in an
effective initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For example, both sucrose alone
and Poloxamer 188 alone resulted in no detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient
(Table 7). Surprisingly Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose in combination with
Poloxamer 188 resulted in recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient of about 113% (Table
7). These findings regarding 150 kDa BoNT/A are similar to the synergistic recovery observed with the 900
kDa BoNT/A toxin complex in Examples 1-3, where Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising
sucrose in combination with Poloxamer 188 resulted in 99% initial recovered potency (Table 3).
                                                       91

     WO 2010/090677                                                                 PCT/US2009/067538
[0161] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose and/or Poloxamer 188 yielded mixed
results as those seen with the 900-Kda BoNT/A toxin complex in Examples 1-3. For example, pharmaceutical
compositions comprising lactose as the sole excipient did not result in any detectable recovered potency of
the Clostridial toxin active ingredient (150 kDa BoNT/A)(Table 7). This lack of recovery was unexpected given
the finding of recovered potency of about 35% for pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose as the
sole excipient when the Clostridial toxin active ingredient was the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex (Table 2).
Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising Poloxamer 188 as the sole excipient resulted in no
detectable recovered potency of a Clostridial toxin active ingredient (Table 7), a finding similar to those
discussed in Example 1. More strikingly, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising lactose
and Poloxamer 188 as excipients resulted in an initial recovered potency of about 110% (Table 7). Thus, like
the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex, there is a synergistic recovery of the 150 kDa BoNT/A in pharmaceutical
compositions comprising lactose and Poloxamer 188.
[0162] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising two non-protein polymers also resulted in an
effective initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For example, Clostridial toxin
pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 40K and/or Poloxamer 188 also yielded comparable results
as those seen with the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex in Examples 1-3. For example, recovery of the 150
kDa BoNT/A was observed in pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 40K and Poloxamer 188,
although the initial recovered potency was lower for the 150 kDa BoNT/A (compare about 50% initial
recovered potency of the 150 kDa BoNT/A in Table 7 versus about 85% initial recovered potency of the 900
kDa BoNT/A toxin complex in Table 4).
[0163] Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PEG 3350 and/or Poloxamer 188 yielded
somewhat different results as those seen with the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex in Examples 1-3. For
example, initial recovery potency of about 47% of the 150 kDa BoNT/A was observed in pharmaceutical
compositions comprising PEG 3350 and Poloxamer 188 (Table 7). This recovery was unexpected given the
finding that no recovered potency was detected for pharmaceutical compositions comprising PEG 3350 and
Poloxamer 188 when the Clostridial toxin active ingredient was the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex (Table 4).
  However, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising PEG 3350 and/or Poloxamer 188 in
about pH 5.5 sodium citrate buffer yielded comparable results as those seen with the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin
complex in Examples 1-3. For example, recovery of the 150 kDa BoNT/A was observed in pharmaceutical
compositions comprising PEG 3350 and/or Poloxamer 188 in about pH 5.5 sodium citrate buffer, although the
initial recovered potency was lower for the 150 kDa BoNT/A (compare about 52% initial recovered potency of
the 150 kDa BoNT/A in Table 7 versus about 90% initial recovered potency of the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin
complex in Table 4).        Similarly, recovery of the 150 kDa BoNT/A was observed in pharmaceutical
compositions comprising PEG 3350 and/or Poloxamer 188 in about pH 5.5 potassium phosphate buffer,
although the initial recovered potency was lower for the 150 kDa BoNT/A (compare about 53% initial
recovered potency of the 150 kDa BoNT/A in Table 7 versus about 98% initial recovered potency of the 900
kDa BoNT/A toxin complex in Table 4).
                                                     92

 WO 2010/090677                                                                                        PCT/US2009/067538
         o     C                                      L     I       I 'LO                         It   LO         10
    U0
                                                           LO I--o LOc I--Lo                 Lo        Lo   I-  L
      0E                     T-     -     1:     T-~        0-   T                                                           3CO I) D 0
                                                  0)U      u)0                                -          )U     0        -2
 x                oo     -co
                                                      ~E         E EE                                       EEE
 z
                                                       -    --
                          0~
                      a                                                                                                                  0
00      E
                             00I I       co           00      oo        c     00        00    00 co 00co 00co 00~
         a.cu                            cu                                                        cuoocc   cu cu cuocu
                                          0            22-          2     02-                               2    2    -2
                              02          0-C               00 0      0C (0                        CO     0C0    (0    0          :
 E                           0-          0               0000                                        0         0-00
                          0                                                                                                  0   U0
                                   c:)                                                                                           -c
                                                   0   0    0  0    0                                                       -4-0
                                                                   00                00            00           0
     x   %  22)                                  C)0 C)0 C0 C) 00                    DCDC           DCDC          D          00)
                    COT                                                             n0 LO n       LO                         22OLO
            X    X       0     0   0      0                                             9  0    0    0  0   0   0    0
            00              00     tt               XXXXXX                         (                                    D(D(<n
                               ~      00      0)          c 0)w0)0)00                                                            75WW WU
              0-        C/) I)        JJ         0       0000                 cl0clc                                           (>
                                                         93

WO 2010/090677                                        PCT/US2009/067538
                             6-00
       0.                            04
        u           (D a)                     (DC
                          0                   0,L
                  ~o                  o
                              CD
           a~          C
                  0a      0
    =l               c-cu                     0)
             9~                                   ao
        z'                          a          00
                                     a)
0                          <         0
                    'EE
                        C      -  A           V
        X/)                                    0,
  ca0                               n     ) )  CO
           ~
          LO<        a ~         ~
                              - CN    0    C
                a)                         7a
                     m-             U) a)
                 x      0     0         . -Z        ,
                              x %        C.     C)c
      r       CL~      W3                  0        ,
     0U
                    fl-C      r      0      0 co 0~f
                   E -0 0            co a-c

    WO 2010/090677                                                                   PCT/US2009/067538
                                                    Example 5
                   Non-Protein Stabilized Formulations - Re-targeted Clostridial Toxin
[0164] Experiments were carried out to prepare multiple formulations where the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient contained in the formulations was a re-targeted Clostridial toxin (Table 8). The non-protein
excipients tested were added separately or in combination with the listed buffers or salts (Table 8). All of the
formulations were compounded, lyophilized, and reconstituted and potency assessed in the same manner,
and with the same Clostridial toxin active ingredient used in each formulation, except that each formulation
was prepared with different non-protein excipients or with different amounts of the non-protein excipients.
[0165] The tested formulations were compounded, processed, stored and reconstituted as described in
Example 1, except that the Clostridial toxin active ingredient added was about 250 ng of a 100 kDa re
targeted BoNT/A, where the modification was the substitution of the BoNT/A binding domain with an opiod
ligand, see e.g., Steward, L.E. et al., Modified Clostridial Toxins with Enhanced Translocation Capabilities and
Altered Targeting Activity For Non-Clostridial Toxin Target Cells, U.S. Patent Application No. 11/776,075 (Jul.
11, 2007); Dolly, J.O. et al., Activatable Clostridial Toxins, U.S. Patent Application No. 11/829,475 (Jul. 27,
2007); Foster, K.A. et al., Fusion Proteins, International Patent Publication WO 2006/059093 (Jun. 8, 2006);
and Foster, K.A. et al., Non-Cytotoxic Protein Conjugates, International Patent Publication WO 2006/059105
(Jun. 8, 2006), each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0166] To determine the recovered potency of a retargeted Clostridial toxin, the reconstituted formulation
was assayed for enzymatic activity by an in vitro light chain assay. In this assay, the solid formulation is
reconstituted in 1.0 mL of digestion buffer comprising 2 mM DTT, 300 pM ZnCl 2, and 50 mM HEPES (pH 7.4)
and incubated at 37   0C for 30 minutes. After the incubation, 500 pL the incubated formulation is transferred to
a new tube and 5.0 pL of 200 pM of a quench-release fluorescent substrate (SNAPTIDE® 520) was added.
This mixture is incubated at 30     0C  for about 18 to about 20 hours to allow for the Clostridial toxin active
ingredient to digest the quench-release fluorescent substrate. The reaction is stopped by adding 25 pL of 5%
TFA to the digestion mixture. The quenched digestion mixture was then analyzed by routine reversed-phase
high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) methods to separate and measure the amount of
quench-release fluorescent substrate cleaved by the reconstituted formulation. For this RP-HPLC analysis,
the quenched digestion mixture was transferred to HPLC vials and 25 pL of this mixture was injected into the
column (Waters SYMMETRY          300TM    C18, 3.5 pm, 4.6 x 150 mm) set at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min and a
column temperature of 35 C. The run time was 20 minutes with a 5 minute injection delay. The gradient
mobile phase was Solution A, comprising 0.1% TFA in water, and Solution B, comprising 0.1% TFA in
acetonitrile. The gradient program was as follows: 0-10 munites 90% A and 10% B, 10-15 minutes 80% A
and 20% B, and 15-20 minutes 100% B. The multi-wavelength fluorescent detector was set to an excitation
wavelength of 322 nm and an emission wavelength of 420 nm and data was collected and analyzed using
standard software. Cleavage products were identified by retention time using fluorescent detections and
quantitated by peak area. Cleaved quench-release fluorescent substrate typically eluted at a retention time of
5.7 minutes.
                                                      95

WO 2010/090677                                                                                             PCT/US2009/067538
                    (n                                                                                              [I       Id
                     o-                                                   O      C        mC     o-
             .2                               -                                     I                                         I            0)II I
                                 ~j~4J.                                  ii      C1               C) ccI~I
    0                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                -C
                                      1    1       1CD0                                           Cl            C)~             C14C
                                                      .0)0)               0:                                     &   15   0     0 0
                                            Lo     ~            L        LOO               ci oi LO 1
                                                                              01U) LO0 U L)UO            10010
                                                                                                            -   N-   I-           LO
      x                                                                                                     co
                   0O                                            0         00           0       0     u So       0
            o        5                               =2
                                                           N~0 0
                                                                    - T-
                                                                           0N c0 N
                                                                           --       2-
                                                                                       m0 N
                                                                                             2
                                                                                               m C)
                                                                                                     -  -CI
                                                                                                                         m
                                                                                                                                C
                                                             CDCD                                                                C:J)  - O
                                                                                                                         N00
           .2.
CO                                                                                                                 C ,   C , D,   CD  C
.2-                                                                                                             CD     CD CD) N)
                        .0     m        of                                                                      N N CO
 caE
              0.~0                               0       0          0a
                          0))0    0     01     1        10
                                                        coUUU      1
             <~                C   "-      ""              '       -                                                  0      0
                                                        'j.00                     0       0
      mI~~                                WW
              CL0
                    w--
                               Qoxoo                                        ~*~* 0             ~~ -       0
              E9

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                                              PCT/US2009/067538
                             0LLO
          - a,- a=                 I I       m.
                                             'o                              I                             I0      m                         t
                o                            -        l            |    |    |    |       |                |
             o Eo            E                           I            O OoO
                .~-                            |      |            |    I ||                                                       ||                       1         |     |      |
              *')                               ca       o                            c     c oo eoo00o oao    CD        o 'o C
                                                                                                                                                   rC
                          o0
                             E            --                                                                                 - -
                                                                                 o                       Z-        I       O                                 m      -     -
                                                    00                L                                             00                                                           I
                    o            -                                                          -                      -           -         -
                                                                           p                   1    10       LO          c       (     co    o     o    c     o     cc    co     10
                                 1        10
                                                    C)     U0 C0 10-       0-                             cu10C
0               .2
                                               z    CO U)        CO             T       /
                                           EEEE                 EE E EE                           E                  E        EE           EE         EE         EE           EE
-                                                          LoO         LO    L                       LO                 LO                                                       O
                                                    C            *)o  LO    Lo Lo     L                          LD                                             D
T;
                                       IN      |NC               C|               4   c                                    |         -|    -| -|      ---|         ---|
     .D         .
                           M           04                                                                                               -.       .    .   .      .    .LO
                                                           t-      LO r-     r-   r-           L
                                r_                                    LO
o                                                                     C.
-2    X2                           -d -5 .5           -5                     -5 75 -5 75                   .          .    .       .     .     .
   0
         0
                                                                        -DLO                                             C       COE- O C-   O C                          LO O
                                 _   o0           o         o               o                            00        00o o         0      o    0     0    0      0    0     0     0
                                                    eo     eo    eo   e~        e C~        ~\~o        co    00   0      m      00     o    co     o   co     0 co        o    co
      x                                  )a )        m      cu      m~C     cu     m m a) a)              a)         a)     a)      a)    a)    a)   3  w             o   a    a)    a)
                                  E E E -2-ee ee                               e EE                           E     E E EE                   E E           E E E E
                                  co cu ux O xo xO o o o m                             xx
                                                                                                m         cu
                                                                                                          x          x xx
                                                                                                                          m m m               m m m m m
                                                                                                                                        x x x xx                     xx
                                                                                                                                                                           m xm
                                  0     0       0    -      -    2      ->-       -0            0         0          0       0      00        0000000.                               -  .
                                          o         oo                          LOU Lo Lo Lo             LO        Co             o          o             oo
                      0              1                   -     -             -, -        -               LO                      e (        N      N    C     iLO               so)
                     E           04
                                 0.~~                                                                                          0                            00 0) 0 0 0          0 0) 0
            w           1          0     0) 0          a      0     a    0)0       )       0     a)      t)                                                   =~ A) =i           =)~)U    ~U~(
                     a           c" U          o o                o U co                       U)                      00                     0000000
                                                                                   97

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                           PCT/US2009/067538
                      LO CN CCO
  o              j-   N0~ N         N
         73                c          )                                                    (.       o6   C)          CD       C
                  SC ;:     S
                                CCO
                                                                                           CDO     CoON
                                                                                                  C'.J
                                              C0       C\J
                                                         0D       C1D0C        0'
                                                                  C'                1(00L
                                                                               U'),      -      N    CO COD     -   0 ')       -'
                               LO                           0.        CC                                           ".:    C       Ot m N r C)-.00
                      101111                          1o        1T         01t0                                                           N-      N- oN    00
                                                                                                                            1
                                        =C ao                                                              a -a         a                   -    L
                                                                     ..    z    m a    a..-       aco~-~.--a
                                        IIIIEEIO-                                                        LO LO OI
                       10100(.0                      10         10                                       10101c (NCo
            x       c      5      5         5cu      510         &      10     0        00                001                  10C 55o        .a
                                                                         0-    ct)  T
              .2                                                                              o                     m    mE                -            00
                                            E      F=            E       F10EC')C'E
                                                                                                           0    0    0         0O[- I
                  aL
                                                                                                0  0
        00 0                                                                                 0    1       01           0      1
                                                                                                  10     1C)           0      1           C:)
      m  I.-                                                               -F         -IIM               L             q      F
                 0                                                       It     li  It      I-      0 0
                                                                                                   ;I-CO       0      0    0L
0                                                                                          CD       D     C:)                 =CD   C
     w                       0           0              0D                                      0               oN(.'JC       10    C (D    (DJC\
          E
         0                                                                                          ))00    0) 0) 0)0)         0)            )0
                      Co          C) 0 ):0)      C         )                C cD NCOJCN CO         LO      C     C\OCN        CN              CW
                                    co 00                                    0     000          0   000                00                        00C)C :   :  C)C )C )C
                      co00        w00         0    0           0         M                          N      >,>.            N.        N     > ClNN     \  lC
                                                                            )0        0 0 0               a)OD~      a) a)0 a)                0a
                      a) a) a) a) a)                   a)          U            Z5U)5 U)5 U)5 U)5 U)5                              U)U)U
                      m 000mm                                         o0 0 0 0 0                  0 0 0                        00 0
                 a     DC ) C) C)               CO CO C                     COCOO CDC                C     COCDO O C                             C
                      0*00 0                   0        0          0        0)0)0)0                0       0                               CO CO
         x       CL   -F-Fu-F-B               -5       Fu          -      'Fa- F-ff                -       -F-H Fi-'F
                                                                    98

WO 2010/090677                                                                                                                               PCT/US2009/067538
                                                                                             2-u
                                                                                              0)                         o*)
                                                                                                                         u
                                 0                                                           u0
     LL                                                                                     4-               0              -)                   a)
                 00            C0)         C\J                                                               a)
                            i--                                                              F=                        -       -0
                 c                                                                                           c
                                                                                                             ~0
             >Otn       Co                                                                  .
      0                                    C         -c                                     2:1                           r-
                           CU~~'                                          -C                                                                     a)
                             ro           0
                                          C4        C                                                        0)           V       0)
                    COJ        -           C14                C)                            00
                                          co0)-    - :))                )-        Ea                         0   ~     -0-5            CD
                                                                                                                                       0       ~C
                              0)0                                  .0   C:    CD -,          a)
             oo                                                                                                                 '
                    L6mcL               L6m           mm
                                                    L6L               m6         --                                                              a
                                                                                                   U)                   -0
              _       00-               0-           00-               0-                                    D                                   75)
                                 C:-                   --              -~                   (Dv             -a-         r
                .2o                                                               0                                    .2         0     )
                                                                                                                                       CD
                                                                                             0 C
                                                                                            0)                               )--o
                                                                                                                                0~
             0>     -                               -                             E              -                     £a)       =2
                 .2               0         F=     E             E           F0                                               4(                  0) 1)_
                                                                                                                                                 a)
                                        C
                                       C) ~            DC
                                                         C~j
                                                             ~ C0)             ~ Z)C)              0
                                                                                             0)4-                          ~
                                                                                         0     J 0           co                 0o
                                                                                  a)~~              CU       -C         a)
                                                                                           0                                           r~ V)E   CJ             0
                                                                                                         a)     0 )
                                                                                             a) 4)                              -         0
                                                                                 F-               'o)          )         0) U 4 C
                                                                                                                        CL
          0L                                                                      -u                0                           E
                                                                                           E        -  20                  -           m                      L5
                                                                C00        C0)                 C                                       V)
          <                                                                      LO          a                          0-             m
                                                                                                                        C: C           3:
                                                                                             co cu                                               2 ))0        C)
                                                                                                   00)              a)0t!)
                                                                                  co                C0        ) 0)5           0)          L-     C>
          C>                              -x2                                                                  ~        00~                              o
                                                                                                                                                              n
  LU                   0    0                         0)      0)                                            -0 0                                         N
                                                >0 0          0                      )a-                                 a             F=       :E
                                                                                                                                      o          0)
                                                                                                                                            ~~~
                                                                                                                                           00)
                                                                                  2l)           -o           CO                    L)C       -                 0)
                                                                                   -            jn      *E                             0                       0v~
                                                                                  0                          co         c           -             2        ao   -0
                                          ( 00       0         0        0            ) 0                              0CU (0                      o       2     u
      0.                    C                                                                0C 0 I)         C C         -        .
                                    io~~_
                              a                                                                             COEt- 0 0) 0)~                       a)
               LU~c                                                                                                     cu 0 0 0 0Z)                 > )    0
                                                                                         0     UCU           .
                                                                                            OfW       U           U)          14 0 C a          -3
                    0        0             0-0             0        cu          co2          (D          1    O   0                )        2-                m
                                     0)    0     0lC0~-       0)          o-                                                                                    0)co
                                                                                        99

    WO 2010/090677                                                                      PCT/US2009/067538
[0167] To determine the recovered potency of a retargeted Clostridial toxin, the reconstituted formulation
was also assayed by the total amount of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient recovered using an enzyme
linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA). Microtiter plate used for the ELISA assay is coated with a primary
polyclonal antibody (capture antibody) against 150 kDa BoNT/A (due to the presence of same epitopes for the
re-targeted Clostridial toxin as in BoNT/A antibodies). After coating the antibody on a 96 well plate for 14-72
hours at 2-8   0C,  the test samples is added and incubated for 90 minutes at 25        0C with gentle shaking. A
secondary antibody (capture antibody conjugated to Biotin molecules) is added and incubated for 60 minutes
at 25  0C  with gentle shaking. After one hour incubation, and several washing steps Streptavidin-HRP
conjugate is added to the plate and incubate for another 60 minutes at 25      0C  with gentle shaking. In the final
step, after a few washing steps, a colorimetric substrate solution (TMB-Substrate) is added and incubate at
room temperature for 5-7 minutes until the assay color is developed. The absorbance at 450 nm is measured
by UV/Visible spectroscopy. The absorbance of the test sample is compared to a standard curve and the
protein concentration is measured.
[0168] Recovery is expressed as a percentage and is calculated by dividing the potency of the Clostridial
toxin active ingredient in the stored reconstitution formulation by the potency of the active Clostridial toxin
ingredient determined prior to its addition into the test solution. Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition
comprising a re-targeted Clostridial toxin could be stabilized when the formulation comprised two or more
non-protein excipients in a manner similar to the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex and the 150 kDa BoNT/A.
[0169] The results showed that a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a sugar and a
surfactant resulted in an effective initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin active ingredient. For
example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose or lactose in combination with
Poloxamer 188 resulted in recovered potency of the re-targeted Clostridial toxin similar to the results
observed with the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex (see Examples 1-3) and the 150 kDa BoNT/A (Example 4).
As another example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose in combination with
Polysorbatew 20 resulted in high recovered potency of the re-targeted Clostridial toxin (Table 8). As yet
another example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising sucrose in combination with
Poloxamer 188 resulted in high recovered potency of the re-targeted Clostridial toxin (Table 8). As still
another example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising trehalose in combination with
Poloxamer 188 resulted in high recovered potency of the re-targeted Clostridial toxin (Table 8). As another
example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising trehalose in combination with PEG 3550
and Polysorbate 20 resulted in high recovered potency of the re-targeted Clostridial toxin (Table 8).
[0170] The results also showed that a Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising a non
protein polymer and a surfactant also resulted in an effective initial recovered potency of the Clostridial toxin
active ingredient. For example, Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical compositions comprising Dextran 40K or
PEG 3550 in combination with Poloxamer 188 resulted in recovered potency of the re-targeted Clostridial
toxin similar to the results observed with the 900-kDa BoNT/A toxin complex (see Examples 1-3) and the 150
kDa BoNT/A (Example 4).
                                                     100

Rimm\nterw, ven\ otb\DC MN! 1001185_ docx-'1. 04.2016
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.            An animal-protein-free Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising
              at least two excipients selected from the following: sugar, amino acid,
              surfactant, polyol, and polymer.
2.            The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1, comprising at least three
              excipients selected from the following: sugar, amino acid, surfactant, polyol,
              and polymer.
3.            The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 1 or 2, comprising a sugar
              and a surfactant.
4.            The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
              comprising an amino acid.
5.            The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
              the composition is a solid-form or aqueous-form composition.
6.            The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein
              the Clostridial toxin is botulinum toxin.
7.            The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein
              the sugar is a monosaccharide selected from trioses, such as glyceraldehyde
              and dihydroxyacetone; tetroses, such as erythrose, erythrulose and threose;
              pentoses, such as arabinose, lyxose, ribose, ribulose, xylose, xylulose;
              hexoses, such as allose, altrose, fructose, fucose, galactose, glucose, gulose,
              idose, mannose, psicose, rhamnose, sorbose, tagatose, talose and trehalose;
              heptoses, such as sedoheptulose and mannoheptulose; octooses, such as
              octulose and 2-keto-3-deoxy-manno-octonate; nonoses such as sialose; and
              decose; or a disaccharide selected from sucrose, lactose, maltose, trehalose,
              cellobiose, gentiobiose, kojibiose, laminaribiose, mannobiose, melibiose,
              nigerose, rutinose, and xylobiose; or a trisaccharide selected from raffinose,
              acarbose, maltotriose, and melezitose.
                                                      101

Rimm\nterw, ven  otb\DC(MN! 1001185_ docx-'1. 04.2016
8.            The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein
              the amino acid is selected from glycine, proline, 4-hydroxyproline, serine,
              glutamate, alanine, lysine, sarcosine, y-aminobutyric acid, cysteine and
              methionine.
9.            The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein
              the surfactant is selected from polysorbate, a poloxamer, a
              polyoxyethyleneglycol dodecyl ether, 2-dodecoxyethanol , polyoxyethylene
              octyl phenyl ether, sodium dodecyl sulfate, 3-[(3
              Cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1 -propanesulfonate, 3-[(3
              Cholamidopropyl) dimethylammonio]-2-hydroxy-1-propanesulfonate, sucrose
              monolaurate; or sodium cholate.
10.           The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein
              the polyol is selected from glycol, glycerol, arabitol, erythritol, xylitol, maltitol,
              sorbitol (gluctiol), mannitol, inositol, lactitol, galactitol (iditol), or isomalt.
11.           The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 10,
              comprising sucrose.
12.           The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 11,
              comprising polysorbate.
13.           The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 12,
              comprising poloxamer.
14.           The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 13,
              comprising an amino acid selected from glycine, cysteine, or methionine.
15.           The pharmaceutical composition according to any one of claims 1 to 14,
              comprising butylated hydroxyanisole or butylated hydroxytoluene.
                                                      102

    WO 2010/090677                                                                  PCT/US2009/067538
What is claimed:
1. An animal-protein free, solid-form Clostridial toxin pharmaceutical composition comprising a Clostridial
    toxin active ingredient, an effective amount of a sugar excipient and an effective amount of surfactant
    excipient.
2.  The composition according to Claim 1, wherein the sugar excipient is a monosaccharide, a disaccharide
    or a trisaccharide.
3.  The composition according to Claim 1, wherein the monosaccharise is sucrose ro trehalose.
4.  The composition according to Claim 1, wherein the surfactant excipient is a poloxamer, a polysorbate, a
    polyoxyethylene glycol dodecyl ether, or a polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether.
5.  The composition according to Claim 1, wherein the Clostridial toxin active ingredient is stable for at least
    one-year when stored at either ambient or below freezing temperatures.
6.  The composition according to Claim 1, wherein the composition is buffered to about pH 5.5 to about pH
    6.5.
7.  The composition according to Claim 6, wherein the composition is buffered using a citrate buffer, a
    phosphate buffer, a histidine buffer, or a histidine phosphate buffer.
8.  The composition according to Claim 1, wherein the composition further comprises an effective amount of
    sodium chloride.
9.  The composition according to Claim 1, wherein the composition further comprises an effective amount of
    a non-protein polymer excipient.
10. The composition according to Claim 9, wherein the non-protein polymer excipient is a dextran, a
    polyethylene glycol, a polyethylene imine, a polyvinyl pyrrolidone, a polyvinyl acetate, an inulin, a starch,
    or a starch derivative.
                                                          103

<removed-date>
                                            <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712><U+2713><U+2712><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716> <U+261E><U+2717><U+2718><U+2712><U+2719>
                    <U+2704><U+271A><U+271B><U+271A><U+271C><U+2715><U+2714><U+2712><U+2722><U+271B><U+271A><U+2716> <U+2723><U+271B><U+2712><U+271B><U+2724><U+2712>
                    <U+2725><U+2715><U+271A><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2712><U+2727><U+2605> <U+2729><U+272A>
                    <U+261B><U+2714><U+2712><U+271B><U+2716> <U+272B><U+272C><U+2717><U+271B><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272A>
                    <U+272E><U+2714><U+2712><U+2713><U+271A><U+272C><U+2722><U+272F><U+2716> <U+2723><U+2719><U+271A><U+2730>
                    <U+2731><U+2712><U+2722><U+272F><U+271A><U+2732><U+2713><U+2717><U+271B><U+2716> <U+2711><U+2717><U+271B>
                    <U+272B><U+272C><U+271B><U+2722><U+2716> <U+261B><U+271A><U+2714><U+2714><U+271A><U+271B><U+2727><U+271A> <U+2726><U+272A>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2733><U+272C><U+2734><U+2712><U+2714><U+2716> <U+272B><U+2712><U+2714><U+2715><U+2713><U+272F> <U+272E><U+272A><U+2731><U+272A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2723><U+271B><U+2715><U+2734><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+271A><U+2715><U+271B><U+2736><U+2737><U+2714><U+271A><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+2712><U+2714><U+2734><U+2712><U+2727><U+271A><U+272C><U+2722><U+2715><U+2727><U+2712><U+2719>
                <U+271F><U+2717><U+2734><U+2718><U+2717><U+2713><U+2715><U+2722><U+2715><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2739><U+273A><U+2739><U+273B><U+2736><U+272E><U+271F><U+261B> <U+273C><U+273D><U+273E><U+261B><U+273F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+273B><U+270D><U+2741><U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2716><U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2740><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E><U+2739><U+2736><U+270D><U+2735><U+2736><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E><U+270F> <U+271D><U+2704> <U+270D><U+2735><U+2741><U+2738><U+2738><U+270D><U+2716><U+2739><U+270D><U+273B>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2740><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E><U+2739><U+2736><U+270D><U+2735><U+2736><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2737><U+2712><U+2713><U+2722><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2743><U+2717><U+2714> <U+2744><U+2715><U+271B><U+2724><U+2717><U+2732><U+2713> <U+2745><U+271A><U+2714><U+2713><U+2715><U+2717><U+271B> <U+273A><U+272A><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+273B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F>   <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2717><U+2722><U+272C><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+2749><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2723>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
               <U+270D>                 <U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                          <U+2735><U+270E>                    <U+2735><U+2740>                    <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                      <U+2738><U+2740>                    <U+273A><U+270E>                    <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                  <U+2740><U+270E>                    <U+2740><U+2740>                    <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2742><U+2740>                    <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                <U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                  <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                                      <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                    <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                          <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                    <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                          <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                    <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                                <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                    <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                                <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                    <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                                <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                            <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                    <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                            <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                            <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                      <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                            <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                      <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                      <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
                                                              <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
<removed-date>
                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                               <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                               <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2735>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2717><U+2722><U+272C><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+2749><U+2718><U+271A> <U+273D>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2735>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
               <U+270D>                      <U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                               <U+2735><U+270E>                      <U+2735><U+2740>                                <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+2738><U+2740>                      <U+273A><U+270E>                              <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                   <U+2740><U+270E>                        <U+2740><U+2740>                              <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                      <U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                      <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                                <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                    <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                      <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                      <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                    <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                      <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                                <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                      <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                    <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                      <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                                      <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>
                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                                      <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                                      <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                      <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                           <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                              <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                        <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                                 <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                               <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2738>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2717><U+2722><U+272C><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+2749><U+2718><U+271A> <U+271F><U+270D>
                                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2738>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
               <U+270D>                       <U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                <U+2735><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+273A><U+270E>                            <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                    <U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+273B><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                                      <U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                      <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                      <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                                <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                          <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                    <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                      <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                          <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                    <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                                      <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                          <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                    <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                          <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                    <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                                      <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                    <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                      <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                      <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                      <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>  <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
<removed-date>
                      <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>  <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                  <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>  <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                  <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>  <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                               <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                           <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                       <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                  <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                  <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                 <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                           <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                       <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                               <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                               <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>              <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                              <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+273A>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+273B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F>   <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2717><U+2722><U+272C><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+2749><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2711>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+273A>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
               <U+270D>                 <U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                          <U+2735><U+270E>                    <U+2735><U+2740>                    <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                      <U+2738><U+2740>                    <U+273A><U+270E>                    <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                  <U+2740><U+270E>                    <U+2740><U+2740>                    <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2742><U+2740>                    <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                                <U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                  <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                      <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                  <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>   <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                          <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                      <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                  <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
<removed-date>
                              <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                      <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                  <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                              <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                      <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                              <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                      <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                  <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                              <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                          <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                      <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                  <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                              <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                          <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                      <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                  <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                              <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                  <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>  <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>  <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                  <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>  <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                  <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>  <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                               <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
<removed-apn>
                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                  <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                      <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                  <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                  <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                               <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                           <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                       <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                  <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                  <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                                <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                 <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                           <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                       <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                               <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
                                                <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                              <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2740>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2735>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F>   <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2717><U+2722><U+272C><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+2749><U+2718><U+271A> <U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2740>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
               <U+270D>                 <U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+2735><U+270E>                    <U+2735><U+2740>                    <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+2738><U+2740>                    <U+273A><U+270E>                    <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                  <U+2740><U+270E>                    <U+2740><U+2740>                    <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2742><U+2740>                    <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                  <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                                <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                          <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                      <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                                <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                          <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                      <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                  <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                  <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                          <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                  <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                                <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                          <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                      <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                          <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                      <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>  <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
<removed-date>
                      <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>  <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                  <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>  <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                  <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>  <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                 <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                    <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                  <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                       <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                  <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                  <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                  <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                               <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                  <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                      <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                  <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                  <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                               <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                  <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                           <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                       <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                  <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                  <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                 <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                           <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                  <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                       <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                              <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+273B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+273A>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F>   <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F>   <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2717><U+2722><U+272C><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+2749><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2737>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+273B>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
               <U+270D>                 <U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+2735><U+270E>                    <U+2735><U+2740>                    <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                      <U+2738><U+2740>                    <U+273A><U+270E>                    <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                  <U+2740><U+270E>                    <U+2740><U+2740>                    <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2742><U+2740>                    <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                <U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                  <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                                <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
<removed-date>
                      <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                  <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                                <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                            <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                      <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                  <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                            <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                      <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                  <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                            <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                      <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                  <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                            <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                            <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                      <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                  <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                    <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>    <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                    <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>    <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                               <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                     <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>    <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                           <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                     <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>    <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                       <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                    <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>    <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>    <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>    <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                               <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                     <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>    <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                     <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>    <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                       <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                    <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>    <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                  <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>    <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>    <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                               <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                     <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>    <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                    <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>    <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                      <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                    <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                    <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>    <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                    <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>    <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                    <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>    <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                               <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                     <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>    <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                           <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                     <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>    <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                       <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>    <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                  <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>    <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>    <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                               <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                     <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>    <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                           <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                     <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>    <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                       <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>    <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>    <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713>
<removed-date>
                                     <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                      <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                     <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                               <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                     <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                               <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2742>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+2742>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2717><U+2722><U+272C><U+2719><U+2715><U+271B><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714><U+2717><U+2722><U+2749><U+2718><U+271A> <U+261E>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2742>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
               <U+270D>                      <U+2740>                          <U+270D><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                               <U+2735><U+270E>                        <U+2735><U+2740>                                <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+2738><U+2740>                        <U+273A><U+270E>                              <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                   <U+2740><U+270E>                          <U+2740><U+2740>                              <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                          <U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                     <U+2739><U+2740>                          <U+2746><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                               <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                  <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                              <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                          <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                  <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>   <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                              <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                          <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                  <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                              <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                          <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                      <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                              <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                          <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                      <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                              <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                          <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                      <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                  <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
<removed-date>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                      <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                                <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                      <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                                <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                      <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                          <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                      <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                    <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                                        <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                    <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                 <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                    <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                           <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                         <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                         <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                         <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                         <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713>
                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                         <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2739>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2722><U+271A><U+2722><U+2712><U+271B><U+2715>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2739>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
               <U+270D>                        <U+2740>                      <U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2740>
                                                        <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
<removed-date>
                                <U+2735><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+273A><U+270E>                            <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                      <U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2740>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                    <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                          <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                    <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                      <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                      <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                          <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                    <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                                      <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                          <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                    <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                                      <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                      <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                          <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                    <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                      <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                      <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                                      <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
<removed-date>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                             <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                       <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                              <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                                 <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                               <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                           <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                              <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                        <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                 <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                               <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                           <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                                 <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>
                                <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+270D><U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2746>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2739>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+2712><U+2714><U+2712><U+2722><U+2715><U+2715>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2746>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
               <U+270D>                       <U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                <U+2735><U+270E>                             <U+2735><U+2740>                             <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                          <U+2738><U+2740>                             <U+273A><U+270E>                             <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                    <U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+2740><U+2740>                             <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+270E>                             <U+2742><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                      <U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                    <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                      <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                                <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                    <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                            <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                       <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                          <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
                                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
<removed-date>
                                      <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                          <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                    <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                                      <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                          <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                    <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                      <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                          <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                    <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                      <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                           <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                    <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                      <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                           <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                      <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                                 <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                               <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                           <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                              <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                             <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                              <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                             <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                       <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                              <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                 <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                            <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                              <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                          <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                              <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                             <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                       <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                              <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>
                                 <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                               <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                           <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                              <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                        <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                 <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                               <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                           <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
                                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
<removed-date>
                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                                <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                          <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+270D><U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2735><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2747><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+2735><U+270D><U+2738><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2719><U+2717><U+2713><U+2722><U+2714><U+2715><U+2724><U+2715><U+272C><U+2734> <U+2748><U+272C><U+2722><U+2749><U+2714><U+2715><U+2727><U+272C><U+2734>
              <U+270C><U+273A><U+270E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
               <U+270D>                       <U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+270E>                              <U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                <U+2735><U+270E>                            <U+2735><U+2740>                               <U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                           <U+2738><U+2740>                           <U+273A><U+270E>                               <U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                    <U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+2740><U+2740>                               <U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+270E>                              <U+2742><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                      <U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+270E>                               <U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>
                                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                          <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>                              <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                    <U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>                             <U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                                      <U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                <U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                              <U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>                              <U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                    <U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                           <U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>                              <U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                             <U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                                                             <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                                <U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2740><U+2740>
<removed-date>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                          <U+2735><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                      <U+2735><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                  <U+2735><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2735><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
              <U+2738><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2738><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                          <U+2738><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+2738><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                  <U+2738><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
              <U+2738><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+2738><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                                <U+273A><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>
                          <U+273A><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                      <U+273A><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                  <U+273A><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+273A><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                                <U+273A><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+270E>                   <U+273A><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                          <U+2740><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+270E><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>   <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719>
                      <U+2740><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>   <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+2740><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>   <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2740><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2740><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749>   <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                <U+2740><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                          <U+2740><U+2739><U+270E>                   <U+2740><U+2739><U+2740>                   <U+2740><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                      <U+2740><U+2746><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B>   <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>
                  <U+273B><U+270D><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+270D><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
              <U+273B><U+2735><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2738><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2738><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>   <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>   <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                <U+273B><U+273A><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2740><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>   <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712>   <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+273B><U+273B><U+270E>                   <U+273B><U+273B><U+2740>                   <U+273B><U+2742><U+270E>
                                              <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
<removed-date>
                           <U+273B><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+273B><U+2739><U+270E>                             <U+273B><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722>
                    <U+273B><U+2746><U+270E>                             <U+273B><U+2746><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
              <U+2742><U+270E><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+270D><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                        <U+2742><U+2735><U+2740>                           <U+2742><U+2738><U+270E>                              <U+2742><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                 <U+2742><U+273A><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+273A><U+2740>                              <U+2742><U+2740><U+270E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                           <U+2742><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+2742><U+273B><U+270E>                             <U+2742><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                    <U+2742><U+2742><U+270E>                             <U+2742><U+2742><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
              <U+2742><U+2739><U+2740>                             <U+2742><U+2746><U+270E>                            <U+2742><U+2746><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
                                       <U+2739><U+270E><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+270D><U+270E>                              <U+2739><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                                 <U+2739><U+2735><U+270E>                            <U+2739><U+2735><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                          <U+2739><U+2738><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+273A><U+270E>                             <U+2739><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                    <U+2739><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+2739><U+2740><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
              <U+2739><U+273B><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2742><U+270E>                            <U+2739><U+2742><U+2740>                             <U+2739><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                       <U+2739><U+2739><U+2740>                            <U+2739><U+2746><U+270E>                              <U+2739><U+2746><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714>
                                 <U+2746><U+270E><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+270E><U+2740>                              <U+2746><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                           <U+2746><U+270D><U+2740>                            <U+2746><U+2735><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2735><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
                    <U+2746><U+2738><U+270E>                             <U+2746><U+2738><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A>
              <U+2746><U+273A><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+2740><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2740><U+2740>                             <U+2746><U+273B><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                                        <U+2746><U+273B><U+2740>                           <U+2746><U+2742><U+270E>                              <U+2746><U+2742><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                                 <U+2746><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+2746><U+2739><U+2740>                              <U+2746><U+2746><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B>
                           <U+2746><U+2746><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713>
                    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+2735><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2738><U+2740>                        <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+270E>
              <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C>
                                       <U+270D><U+270E><U+273A><U+2740>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+270E>                             <U+270D><U+270E><U+2740><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                                 <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+270E>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+273B><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C>
                          <U+270D><U+270E><U+2742><U+2740>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+270E>                            <U+270D><U+270E><U+2739><U+2740>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                                                            <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+270E><U+2746><U+2740>                     <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
<removed-date>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E>                     <U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714>
                               <U+270D><U+270D><U+2735><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+270D><U+2738><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
                            <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+270E>              <U+270D><U+270D><U+273A><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+270E>
              <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+272E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                      <U+270D><U+270D><U+2740><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+270D><U+273B><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+270E>                <U+270D><U+270D><U+2742><U+2740>                     <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271F><U+2749><U+2713> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A>
              <U+270D><U+270D><U+2739><U+2740>                 <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+270E>                     <U+270D><U+270D><U+2746><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+2720><U+271A><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718>
                               <U+270D><U+2735><U+270E><U+2740>                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+270E>                    <U+270D><U+2735><U+270D><U+2740>
              <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2745><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2723><U+2719><U+2712> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2749><U+2714> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+2731><U+271A><U+2722> <U+2723><U+2714><U+272D> <U+2723><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261B><U+272F><U+2714>
                            <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+270E>              <U+270D><U+2735><U+2735><U+2740>                       <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+270E>
              <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718> <U+2723><U+2713><U+271B> <U+272E><U+272F><U+271A> <U+2721><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2704><U+271A><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+272B><U+2715><U+2713> <U+261E><U+2719><U+2749> <U+261B><U+2714><U+2718>
                      <U+270D><U+2735><U+2738><U+2740>                <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+270E>                        <U+270D><U+2735><U+273A><U+2740>
              <U+261E><U+2719><U+271B> <U+261E><U+2719><U+272C> <U+2720><U+2749><U+2713>
                  <U+270D><U+2735><U+2740><U+270E>
                                             <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702>

