USING A DIGITAL VIDEO EFFECT TO GENERATE A VIDEO STREAM
ABSTRACT
A method for use in connection with a television-broadcast system (100) comprising a news
production system (104) and a master control system (108), the method comprising: making a
determination that a stunt switcher (304) of the master control system (108) is scheduled to run a
first DVE to modify a first video stream; responsive to making the determination that the stunt
switcher (304) is scheduled to modify the first video stream, selecting a second DVE to run on a
production switcher of the news production system by using mapping data that maps the first
DVE to the second DVE; and causing the production switcher to run the selected second DVE,
wherein running the selected second DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first
video stream by modifying an input video stream.

                                                  1
USING A DIGITAL VIDEO EFFECT TO GENERATE A VIDEO STREAM
CROSS REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015219040, which
claims priority to (i) U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/941,267, entitled "Using a
Digital Video Effect to Generate a Video Stream," which was filed on 18 February 2014, (ii)
U.S. Patent Application No. 14/329,619, entitled "Using a Digital Video Effect to Generate a
Video Stream," which was filed on 11 July 2014, (iii) U.S. Patent Application No. 14/329,632,
entitled "Using a Digital Video Effect to Generate a Video Stream," which was filed on 11 July
2014, and (iv) U.S. Patent Application No. 14/329,652, entitled "Using a Digital Video Effect to
Generate a Video Stream," which was filed on 11 July 2014, all of which are hereby
incorporated by reference herein.
USAGE AND TERMINOLOGY
[0002] In this disclosure, unless otherwise specified and/or unless the particular context clearly
dictates otherwise, each usage of "a" or "an" means at least one, and each usage of "the" means
the at least one.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0003] This disclosure relates generally to digital video effects and television-broadcasting
systems.
BACKGROUND
[0004] A computing device may perform functions or acts related to digital video effects
(DVE). For example, the computing device may, based on user input, design and/or run a DVE.
As a result of the computing device running a DVE, the computing device may generate a video
stream. As such, the design of a DVE may affect the corresponding generated video stream. In
one example, a DVE may be designed such that the computing device generates the
corresponding video stream by manipulating an input video stream, such as by scaling video
content represented by the input video stream and/or or by overlaying text or other content on
the video content. In one example, this may occur in connection with a television-broadcasting
system.

                                                   2
[0005] Typically, a television-broadcasting system includes a master control system, which
serves as a technical hub of the television-broadcasting system and is the final point before a
video stream is sent to an air-chain system for broadcast. The master control system may include
a computing device known as a stunt switcher that may run a DVE and as a result, may use an
input video stream to generate an output a video stream for broadcast.
[0006] In the context of a television-broadcasting system, an example DVE may be designed
such that the stunt switcher uses an input video stream to generate a video stream by overlaying
school-related alerts (e.g., in the form of rotating text or graphics) on a lower-third portion of
video content represented by the input video stream. This is a common way in which a media
organization affiliated with the television-broadcasting system may provide to its viewers an
indication that certain schools may be closed for the day due to bad weather, for instance.
Depending on the design of the DVE, the stunt switcher may overlay the school-related alerts
for a predetermined duration or until the stunt switcher runs another DVE to "clear" the alerts.
SUMMARY
[0007] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for use in connection with a
television-broadcast system comprising a news production system and a master control system,
the method comprising:
         making a determination that a stunt switcher of the master control system is scheduled to
run a first DVE to modify a first video stream;
         responsive to making the determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to modify the
first video stream, selecting a second DVE to run on a production switcher of the news
production system by using mapping data that maps the first DVE to the second DVE; and
         causing the production switcher to run the selected second DVE, wherein running the
selected second DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first video stream by
modifying an input video stream.
[0008] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer-readable
storage medium having stored thereon program instructions that when executed by a processor
cause performance of a set of acts comprising:
         making a determination that a stunt switcher of a master control system is scheduled to
run a first DVE to modify a first video stream;

                                                   3
         responsive to making the determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to modify the
first video stream, selecting a second DVE to run on a production switcher of a news production
system by using mapping data that maps the first DVE to the second DVE; and
         causing the production switcher to run the selected second DVE, wherein running the
selected second DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first video stream by
modifying an input video stream.
[0009] In a third aspect, the present invention provides a television-broadcast system
comprising:
         a production switcher of a news production system, the production switcher configured
to modify an input video stream to generate a first video stream; and
         a control configured for:
                 making a determination that a stunt switcher of a master control system is
scheduled to run a first DVE to modify the first video stream;
         responsive to making the determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the
first DVE in connection with the first video stream, selecting a second DVE to run on the
production switcher by using mapping data that maps the first DVE to the second DVE; and
                 causing the production switcher to run the selected second DVE, wherein running
the selected second DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first video stream by
modifying the input video stream.
[0010] There is also disclosed herein a method involving (i) accessing data representing a traffic
schedule for a television broadcast; (ii) selecting a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the
record identifies a video source; (iii) determining a type of the identified video source; (iv) using
the determined type of the identified video source as a basis to select a digital video effect
(DVE); and (v) causing a computing device to run the selected DVE, wherein running the
selected DVE causes the computing device to generate a modified version of an input video
stream received from the identified video source.
[0011] There is also disclosed herein a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
having stored thereon program instructions that when executed by a processor, cause
performance of a set of acts including (i) accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a
television broadcast; (ii) selecting a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the record
identifies a video source; (iii) determining a type of the identified video source; (iv) using the

                                                   4
determined type of the identified video source as a basis to select a digital video effect (DVE);
and (v) causing a computing device to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE
causes the computing device to generate a modified version of an input video stream received
from the identified video source.
[0012] There is also disclosed herein a system comprising
        a stunt switcher; and
        an automation system configured for:
                accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast;
                selecting a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies a video
        source;
                determining a type of the identified video source;
                using the determined type of the identified video source as a basis to select a
        digital video effect (DVE); and
                causing the stunt switcher to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected
        DVE causes the stunt switcher to generate a modified version of an input video stream
        received from the identified video source.
[0013] There is also disclosed herein a system including a production switcher and a controller
configured for (i) accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast; (ii)
selecting a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies a video source; (iii)
determining a type of the identified video source; (iv) using the determined type of the identified
video source as a basis to select a digital video effect (DVE); and (v) causing a computing
device to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE causes the computing device
to generate a modified version of an input video stream received from the identified video
source.
[0014] There is also disclosed herein a method comprising:
        accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast;
        selecting a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies video content;
        determining a type of the identified video content;
        using the determined type of the identified video content as a basis to select a digital
video effect (DVE); and

                                                  5
        causing a computing device to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE
causes the computing device to generate a modified version of an input video stream
representing the identified video content.
[0015] There is also disclosed herein a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
having stored thereon program instructions that when executed by a processor cause
performance of a set of acts comprising:
        accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast;
        selecting a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies video content;
        determining a type of the identified video content;
        using the determined type of the identified video content as a basis to select a digital
video effect (DVE); and
        causing a computing device to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE
causes the computing device to generate a modified version of an input video stream
representing the identified video content.
[0016] There is also disclosed a method comprising:
        accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast;
        selecting a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies video content;
        determining a type of a portion of the identified video content;
        using the determined type of the portion of the identified video content as a basis to
select a digital video effect (DVE); and
        causing a computing device to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE
causes the computing device to generate a modified version of an input video stream
representing the portion of the identified video content.
[0017] These, as well as other embodiments and alternatives, will become apparent to those of
ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description, with reference where
appropriate to the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0018] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:

                                                  6
[0019] Figure 1 is a simplified block diagram of an example television-broadcasting system;
[0020] Figure 2 is a simplified block diagram of an example computing device;
[0021] Figure 3 is a simplified block diagram of an example master control system;
[0022] Figure 4 is a flow chart showing acts of an example method;
[0023] Figure 5 is a flow chart showing acts of another example method;
[0024] Figure 6 is a flow chart showing acts of still another example method; and
[0025] Figure 7 is a flow chart showing acts of yet another example method.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
I. Overview
[0026] As described above, in an example television-broadcasting system, a stunt switcher may
run a DVE that causes the stunt switcher to generate an output video stream for broadcast by
overlaying school-related alerts on a lower-third portion of video content represented by an
input video stream. To increase the chance that viewers see these alerts, it may be desired to
broadcast the alerts consistently during a particular time period. As such, in one example, a user
may cause the stunt switcher to run the DVE at 6:00am, and then cause the stunt switcher to run
another DVE at 10:00am to "clear" the alerts.
[0027] However, while this may increase the chance that viewers see the alerts, overlaying
alerts (or other content) in this manner may have some undesired effects. To illustrate this,
assume that from 6:00am to 7:00am, the television-broadcasting system is scheduled to
broadcast a one-hour set of video content that includes a mix of news program segments
(collectively making up a news program) and commercials. This information may be specified
in a traffic schedule (sometimes referred to as a "traffic log"). As such, the traffic schedule may
specify that the one-hour broadcast begins with a six-minute news program segment followed by
a set of eight thirty-second commercials, followed by another six-minute news program
segment, and so forth.

                                                   7
[0028] By using the technique described above, a user may cause the stunt switcher to overlay
the school-related alerts on the entire set of video content as it is being broadcast. But in some
instances, a media organization may find this undesirable as the alerts may obstruct portions of
the commercials (e.g., portions that includes disclaimer text) that the media organization may
seek to keep unobstructed. The media organization may seek to keep these portions
unobstructed for a variety of reasons, such as to adhere to a contractual agreement with a
commercial provider or to adhere to industry regulations, for instance.
[0029] As one approach to addressing this issue, a user may design the DVE in a different
manner so that these obstruction do not occur. For example, the user may design the DVE such
that the stunt switcher generates the corresponding video stream by vertically squeezing and
upwardly shifting the video content represented by the input video stream, thereby creating a bar
of "empty" video content below the "original" video content, and overlaying the alerts on that
empty video content. As a result, the alerts do not obstruct any portions of the commercials (or
any other original video content for that matter). However, in some instances, a media
organization may find this undesirable as running this type of DVE instead causes distortion of
the original video content (i.e., by vertically squeezing the original video content).
[0030] Notably, while a media organization may be willing to tolerate the distortion of some
types of video content, it may be unwilling to tolerate distortion of other types of video content.
For example, while the media organization may be willing to tolerate distortion of a
commercial, it may not be willing to tolerate distortion a news program segment, as the latter
may result in an unflattering depiction of a news anchor or another person affiliated with the
media organization.
[0031] In one aspect of the present disclosure, a television-broadcasting system includes a stunt
switcher and an automation system that accesses data representing a traffic schedule for a
television broadcast and selects a record from the traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies
a video source. The automation system then determines a type of the identified video source,
and uses the determined type of the identified video source as a basis to select a DVE. Then, the
automation system causes the stunt switcher to run the selected DVE, wherein running the
selected DVE causes the stunt switcher to generate a modified version of an input video stream
received from the identified video source. Video content represented by the generated video
stream may then be encoded and broadcast to viewers.

                                                 8
[0032] In one example, the automation system determining the type of the indicated video
source involves the automation system determining that the video source is a news production
system, which in turn may suggest that the input video stream represents a news program
segment. Accordingly, in this example, the automation system may select a DVE that is
designed such that the stunt switcher generates the video stream by overlaying school-related
alerts on the video content represented by the input video stream, but without distorting (e.g., by
vertically squeezing) the video content. Accordingly, the automation system may cause the
school-related alerts to be overlayed on a news program segment without distorting the news
program segment.
[0033] In another aspect of the present disclosure, the automation system may select a record
from the traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies video content. The automation system
then determines a type of the video content, and uses the determined type of video content as a
basis to select a DVE. Then, the automation system causes the stunt switcher to run the selected
DVE, wherein running the selected DVE causes the stunt switcher to generate a modified
version of an input video stream representing the identified video content. The video content
represented by the generated video stream may then be encoded and broadcast to viewers.
[0034] In one example, the automation system determining the type of the identified video
content involves the automation system determining that the video content is a commercial.
Accordingly, in this example, the automation system may select a DVE that is designed such
that the stunt switcher generates the video stream by vertically squeezing and upwardly shifting
the video content, and by overlaying the school-related alerts on the bar of "empty" video
content below the original video content as described above. Accordingly, the automation
system may cause the school-related alerts to be overlayed in connection with a commercial
without actually obstructing the commercial.
[0035] Thus, in some examples, the automation system may ensure that school-related alerts are
presented to viewers consistently over a desired duration, but in different manners depending on
whether the underlying video content is a news program segment or a commercial so as to avoid
the undesired issues discussed above. Also, the automation system may likewise select and
cause the stunt switcher to run different DVEs in connection with other types of video sources
or video content, as desired.

                                                   9
[0036] As noted above, a stunt switcher running a DVE may cause the stunt switcher to
generate a modified version of an input video stream received from a video source. In some
instances though, the input video stream may itself have been generated as a result of a DVE
being run. For example, where the video source is a news production system, a production
switcher in the news production system may run a first DVE that causes the production switcher
to generate a second video stream that is a modified version of the first video stream. And then,
as the second video stream is transmitted through a master control system, a stunt switcher in the
master control system may run a second DVE that causes the stunt switcher to generate a third
video stream that is a modified version of the second video stream.
[0037] In one example, the first DVE may be configured such that, when run, the production
switcher generates the second video stream by overlaying weather information on a first area of
the video content represented by the first video stream. And, the second DVE may be
configured such that, when run, the stunt switcher generates the third video stream by
overlaying school-related alerts on the same first area of the video content. As such, this may
result in the school-related alerts being overlaid on the weather information, which may be
visually unappealing to a viewer.
[0038] Accordingly, in another aspect of the present disclosure, a controller within a news
production system may make a determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the
second DVE in connection with the second video stream, such as by receiving an alert from the
automation system. Then, responsive to the controller making this determination, the controller
may select a third DVE, and may cause the production switcher to run the selected third DVE,
wherein running the selected third DVE causes the production switcher to generate the second
video stream by modifying the first video stream. The video content represented by the
generated third video stream may then be encoded and broadcast to viewers.
[0039] In one example, the selected third DVE is designed such that the production switcher
running the selected third DVE causes the production switcher to overlay weather information
on a second area of video content represented by the first video stream. Further, the automation
system may cause the stunt switcher to run the second DVE, wherein running the second DVE
causes the stunt switcher to generate a modified version of the second video stream by
overlaying the school-related alerts on a second area of the video content, and where that second
area is positioned below the first area. Accordingly, this may allow the television-broadcasting

                                                 10
system to "stack" the weather information on top of the school-related alerts such so as to
provide the news program segment, the weather information, and the school-related alerts to
viewers in a visually appealing manner.
II. Example Television-Broadcasting System
[0040] Figure 1 is a simplified block diagram of an example television-broadcasting system 100
in which aspects of the present disclosure can be implemented. As shown, the
television-broadcasting system 100 incudes a traffic system 102, a news production system 104,
a video server 106, a master control system 108, and an air-chain system 110. Generally, in
accordance with a traffic schedule created via the traffic system 102, video streams may be
transmitted from the news production system 104 and/or the video server 106, through the
master control system 108, and to the air-chain system 110 for television broadcast.
A. Computing Device
[0041] Each of the systems, devices, components or other entities described above, namely the
traffic system 102, the news production system 104, the video server 106, the master control
system 108, and the air-chain system 110 (and each sub-entity included therein) may be
implemented in various ways. For example, one or more of these entities may be implemented
as a computing device.
[0042] Figure 2 shows an example of a computing device 200. The computing device 200 may
take various forms, including for example, a mobile phone, tablet, laptop, or workstation. The
computing device 200 may also include various components, including for example, a user
interface 202, a communication interface 204, a processor 206, and a data storage 208, all of
which may be communicatively connected to each other via a system bus, network, or other
connection mechanism 210.
[0043] The user interface 202 may take a variety of forms and may facilitate interaction
between the computing device 200 and a user of the computing device 200, such as by receiving
input from the user and providing output to the user. Thus, the user interface 202 may include
input components such as a computer mouse, a keyboard, a touch-sensitive panel, or perhaps a
microphone for receiving voice commands. In addition, the user interface 202 may include
output components such as a display screen (which, for example, may be combined with a

                                                    11
touch-sensitive panel) a sound speaker, or a haptic feedback system. Other examples are
possible as well.
[0044] The communication interface 204 may also take a variety of forms and may facilitate
communication of data (e.g., instructions or video streams) between the computing device 200
and one or more other devices according to any number of protocols. In one example, the
communication interface 204 may take the form of a wired interface, such as an Ethernet
interface or a high-definition serial-digital interface (HD-SDI). As another example, the
communication interface 204 may take the form of a wireless interface, such as a WiFi interface.
In either case, the communication interface 204 may include communication input and/or
communication output interfaces each of which may include one or more physical ports. Other
examples are possible as well.
[0045] The processor 206 may also take a variety of forms and may include a general purpose
processor (e.g., a microprocessor) and/or a special purpose processor (e.g., a digital signal
processors (DSP)). Other examples are possible as well.
[0046] The data storage 208 may also take a variety of forms and may include one or more
volatile, non-volatile, removable, and/or non-removable storage components, such as magnetic,
optical, or flash storage, and may be integrated in whole or in part with the processor 206. In
one example, the data storage 208 may take the form of a non-transitory computer-readable
storage medium, having stored thereon program instructions (e.g., compiled or non-compiled
program logic and/or machine code) that, when executed by the processor 206, cause the
computing device 200 or another device to perform one or more functions or acts, such as those
described in this disclosure. As such, the computing device 200 may be configured for
performing such functions or acts. In some instances, the computing device 200 may cause
another device to perform a function or act by transmitting a suitable instruction to that the
device. The computing device 200 may also use the data storage 208 to store or retrieve various
types of data such as the data described in this disclosure.
B. Traffic System
[0047] The traffic system 102 may perform functions or acts related to a traffic schedule for a
television broadcast. For instance, the traffic system 102 may create or edit a traffic schedule,
perhaps based on user input. In addition, the traffic system 102 may store or retrieve data

                                                   12
representing a traffic schedule, or transmit data representing a traffic schedule to another device.
For example, the traffic system 102 may transmit data representing a traffic schedule to an
automation system such that the automation system may perform functions or acts in accordance
with the traffic schedule.
[0048] Two example traffic systems are WO Traffic provided by WideOrbit Inc. of San
Francisco, California, and OSi-TrafficTM provided by Harris Corporation of Melbourne, Florida.
Other examples are possible as well.
[0049] Generally, a traffic schedule specifies an order of events that relate to a television
broadcast for a given station during a given time period. The traffic schedule may include
multiple ordered records, each corresponding to one or more of these events. A record may
include one or more attributes, including for example, a video content identifier (sometimes
referred to as a "house number"), a video source identifier, a duration, a start-time type, and a
start time. Other attributes are possible as well.
[0050] A record may include at least one of either a video content identifier or a video source
identifier. If the record corresponds to an event involving stored video content (e.g., playing a
locally stored commercial), the record may include a video content identifier. A video content
identifier identifies video content. In one example, a video content identifier may be a unique
identifier within a given television-broadcasting system, and may map to a file location in a data
storage where a video file representing the video content is stored. Therefore, based on the
video content identifier, a video server may retrieve the video file, and generate and output a
video stream representing the video content.
[0051] Alternatively, if the record corresponds to a video source, the record may include a video
source identifier. A video source identifier identifies a video source. In one example, a video
source identifier may be a unique identifier within a given television-broadcasting system, and
may map to a video source that outputs video content in the form of a video stream. As such,
whether a record includes a video content identifier or a video source identifier, the record may
correspond to a video stream that represents video content.
[0052] The duration indicates the duration of the corresponding video stream. Further, the
start-time type indicates how and/or when a start time for the corresponding video stream may
be determined. The start-time type may be absolute, calculated, or manual. An absolute

                                                    13
start-time type indicates that the start time is a fixed time that may be determined before any
records in the traffic schedule are processed by an automation system. This is sometimes
referred to as a "hard" start time. A calculated start-time type indicates that the start time is
when the preceding record entry has "completed" (i.e., when the video stream corresponding to
the previous record has played for its duration), and may be determined based on the start time
and duration of the previous record. A manual start-time type indicates that the start time is
when a request is received from a user or device, and therefore it cannot be determined until the
request is received. Finally, the start time indicates the intended start time of the corresponding
video stream.
C. News Production System
[0053] The news production system 104 may perform functions or acts related to producing a
news program, which may involve running DVEs. In this context, the news production system
104 may produce a news program in accordance with a news program schedule (sometimes
called a "rundown"), which specifies an order of events related to the production of the news
program. For instance, a news program schedule may indicate that various video clips are to be
loaded and played out by a video server in a particular order so that the video clips may be
included as part of the news program.
[0054] The news production system 104 may perform functions or acts related to a news
production schedule for a news program. For instance, the news production system 104 may
create or edit a news program schedule, perhaps based on user input. In addition, the news
production system 104 may store or retrieve data representing a news program schedule, or
transmit data representing a news program schedule to another device. For example, the news
production system 104 may transmit data representing a traffic schedule to an automation
system such that the automation system may perform functions or acts based on that data.
[0055] The news production system 104 may also output the news program (perhaps as separate
news program segments), and therefore the news production system 104 may serve as a video
source. The news production system 104 may output the news program in various forms,
including for example, in the form a video stream. Other examples are possible as well.
[0056] In some instances, the news production system may include a production switcher that
may perform functions or acts related to DVEs. For example, the production switcher may

                                                 14
design or run a DVE, perhaps based on input received from a user. In addition, the production
switcher may store or retrieve data (e.g., program instructions) representing a DVE. The
production switcher may perform these or other functions or acts in a same or similar manner to
those described below in connection with the stunt switcher.
[0057] In some instances, the news production system 104 includes a controller that causes the
news production system 104 to perform one or more functions or acts, such as those described
herein. In some instances, the controller may be integrated with another device such as the
production system.
D. Video Server
[0058] Generally, the video server 106 may perform functions or acts related to processing
video files and video streams. For example, the video server 106 may receive a video stream
from a video source, use the video stream to generate a video file, and store the video file. In
addition, the video server 106 may retrieve a video file, use the video file to generate a video
stream, and output the video stream. Accordingly, the video server 106 may also serve as a
video source.
[0059] An example of a video server is the K2 server provided by Grass ValleyTM of San
Francisco, California. Other examples are possible as well.
E. Master Control System
[0060] The master control system 108 is the technical hub of the television-broadcasting system
100 and may perform functions or acts related to routing, switching, and/or manipulating video
streams.
[0061] Figure 3 shows the master control system 108 in greater detail. As shown, the master
control system 108 includes a router 302, a stunt switcher 304, a bypass switcher 306, and an
automation system 308.

                                                 15
1. Router
[0062] The router 302 may perform functions or acts related to mapping input ports to output
ports. For example, the router 302 may map one of its input ports connected to the newsroom
production system 104 via a communication path 112 to one of its output ports connected to an
input port of the stunt switcher 304 via a communication path 312, thereby allowing a video
stream output by the news production system 104 to be transmitted via the communication path
112, the router 302, and the communication path 312, to the stunt switcher 304.
[0063] As another example, the router 302 may map another one of its input ports connected to
the video server 106 via a communication path 114 to another one of its output ports connected
to another input port of the stunt switcher 304 via a communication path 316, thereby allowing a
video stream output by the video server 106 to be transmitted via the communication path 114,
the router 302, and the communication path 316, to the stunt switcher 304.
[0064] Though not shown, typically a router includes more input ports that output ports such
that it can map some number of source devices to a fewer number of destination devices. An
example of a router is the Blackmagic Design Videohub provided by Blackmagic Design Pty.
Ltd. of Fremont, California. Other examples are possible as well.
2. Stunt Switcher
[0065] The stunt switcher 304 may perform functions or acts related to mapping input ports to
output ports and related to DVEs. For example, the stunt switcher 304 may map the one of its
input ports connected to the router 302 via the communication path 312 to one of its output ports
connected to an input port of the bypass switcher 306 via a communication path 318, thereby
allowing a video stream output by the stunt switcher 304 to be transmitted via the
communication path 318 to the bypass switcher 306. As another example, the stunt switcher
304 may map the one of its input ports connected to the router 302 via the communication path
316 to the one of its output ports connected to the input port of the bypass switcher 306 via the
communication path 318.
[0066] As noted above, the stunt switcher 304 may also perform functions or acts related to
DVEs. For example, the stunt switcher 304 may design or run a DVE, perhaps based on input

                                                   16
received from a user. In addition, the stunt switcher 304 may store or retrieve data (e.g.,
program instructions) representing a DVE.
[0067] The stunt switcher 304 may design a DVE by configuring one or more layers known as
"keys." In one example, a DVE may be designed to, when run, use one or more keys to overlay
text, graphics, video, or other content on underlying video content. In some instances, a DVE
may be designed to, when run, reset the keys, thereby "clearing" any previously overlaid
content.
[0068] In one example, the stunt switcher 304 may store data representing a DVE in a particular
DVE register within a data storage. Further, the stunt switcher 304 may store text, graphics, or
other content to be used in connection with the DVE. Therefore, by overwriting the content, the
result of the stunt switcher 304 running the DVE may be altered.
[0069] When running a DVE, the stunt switcher 304 may receive content for use in generating a
video stream in various ways. For example, the stunt switcher 304 may retrieve content from a
particular DVE register indicated in the DVE. Additionally or alternatively, content may be
transmitted to the stunt switcher 304 and received on an input port of the stunt switcher 304 as
indicated in the DVE. As such, a video stream output by a video source, such as the news
production system 104, may be transmitted to the stunt switcher 304 and used by the stunt
switcher 304 to generate a video stream.
[0070] Additionally or alternatively, content output by another source, such as a character
generator, may be transmitted to the stunt switcher 304 and used by the stunt switcher 304 to
generate a video stream. For example, where a DVE is configured to provide school-related
alerts such as those described above, the alerts may include data such as the school's name and
an indication of the school's status, and the stunt switcher 304 may receive this data from a
character generator. Depending on the design of the DVE, the stunt switcher 304 may combine
this data with text, graphics, or other content to generate the alerts such that the stunt switcher
304 may generate a video stream by overlaying the alerts on video content. Since the character
generator may continually provide updated data, the alerts may a "real-time" feel from the
perspective of viewers.
[0071] An example of a stunt switcher is the Miranda NVISION NVS5 1OOMC provided by
NVision, Inc. of Coppell, Texas. Other examples are possible as well.

                                                 17
3. Bypass Switcher
[0072] The bypass switcher 306 may perform functions or acts related to mapping input ports to
output ports. For example, the bypass switcher 306 may map the one of its input ports
connected to the stunt switcher 304 via the communication path 318 to one its output ports
connected to the air-chain system 110 via communication path 116.
[0073] Though now shown, typically another input port of the bypass switcher 306 is connected
to a video source such as a back-up video source. Thus, by altering the input-to-output
mappings of the bypass switcher 306, a video stream may be transmitted from the back-up video
source to the air-chain system 110. This may act as a safeguard if, for e.g., the stunt switcher
304 malfunctions.
[0074] An example of a bypass switcher is the X- 1202H switcher provided by Evertz
Microsystems, Ltd. of Burlington, Ontario, Canada. Other examples are possible as well.
[0075] Accordingly, provided that the router 302, the stunt switcher 304, and the bypass
switcher 306 have the appropriate input-to-output port mapping settings, a video stream output
from the newsroom production system 104 may be transmitted through the master control
system 108 (perhaps being manipulated in accordance with a DVE), and to the air-chain system
110 for broadcast. Likewise, given that these devices have the appropriate input-to-output port
mapping settings, a video stream output from the video server 106 may be transmitted through
the master control system 108 (again perhaps being manipulated in accordance with a DVE) and
to the air-chain system 110 for broadcast.
4. Automation System
[0076] The automation system 308 may perform functions or acts to manage overall
functionality of the television-broadcasting system 100. In one example, this may begin with
the automation system 308 accessing data representing a traffic schedule. In some instances,
this may involve the automation system 308 retrieving the data from the traffic system 102 via a
communication path 120.
[0077] Based on the traffic schedule, the automation system 308 may perform one or more
functions or acts to allow the television-broadcasting system 100 to carry out the events

                                                 18
specified therein. In one example, this may involve the automation system 308 traversing
records of the traffic schedule and performing functions or acts based on those traversed records.
These acts may involve causing one or more entities in the television-broadcasting system 100
to perform a function or act. The automation system 308 may do this by sending instructions to
such entities via one or more communication paths, including for example, communication
paths 118, 320, 322, and 324 with the video server 106, the router 302, the stunt switcher 304,
and the bypass switcher 306, respectively.
[0078] As noted above, the automation system 308 may perform functions or acts based on a
record of a traffic schedule. For example, where the record includes a video source identifier
that identifies the news production system 104, and a start time of 6:00am, at 6:00am, the
automation system 308 may cause the router 302, the stunt switcher 304, and/or the bypass
switcher 306 to use appropriate input-to-output port mappings such that a video stream output
by the newsroom production system 104 is transmitted, though the master control system 108, to
the air-chain system 110 for broadcast. As such, this may allow the television-broadcasting
system 100 to broadcast a news program segment.
[0079] As another example, where a record includes a video content identifier that maps to a
video file representing video content, and a start time of 6:06am, the automation system 308
may cause the video server 106 to retrieve the video file and, at 6:06am, use the video file to
generate and output a video stream. Further, at 6:06am, the automation system 308 may cause
the router 302, the stunt switcher 304, and/or the bypass switcher 306 to use appropriate
input-to-output port mappings such that the video stream output by the video server 106 is
transmitted, though the master control system 108, to the air-chain system 110 for broadcast.
This may allow the television-broadcasting system 100 to broadcast a commercial, for instance.
[0080] In some instances, the automation system 308 may also perform functions or acts based
on data represented in a news program schedule (e.g., based on an indication that the news
production system 104 is scheduled to run a DVE in connection with a video stream
representing particular video content). As such, the automation system 308 may access data
representing a news program schedule. In one example, this may involve the automation system
308 retrieving the data from the news production system 104 via a communication path 122.

                                                    19
F. Air-Chain System
[0081] The air-chain system 308 may perform functions or acts related to processing and
delivering content. The air-chain system 110 may include an encoder and an
outbound-broadcast device.
[0082] The encoder may perform functions or acts related to processing a video stream. For
example, the encoder may receive a video stream output by the bypass switcher 306 via the
communication path 116, and the encoder may encode video content represented by the received
video stream. In one example, the encoder may encode video content based on the HD-SDI
standard to video content based on the MPEG 2 standard.
[0083] An example of an encoder is the NetVX provided by Harris Corporation of Melbourne,
Florida. Other examples are possible as well.
[0084] The outbound-broadcast device may perform functions related to distributing video
content. As such, the outbound-broadcast device may output encoded video content received
from the encoder. The outbound-broadcast device may take a variety of forms, including for
example the form of a transmitter, satellite, or network connection (e.g., for an Internet feed).
Other examples are possible as well.
III. Example Operations
[0085] Figure 4 is a flow chart depicting acts that can be carried out in an example method. At
block 402, the example method involves an automation system (or another computing device)
accessing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast. At block 404, the method involves the
automation system selecting a record from the accessed traffic schedule, wherein the record
identifies a video source. In one example, the record may identify a video source by including a
video source identifier that identifies the video source.
[0086] At block 406, the method involves the automation system determining a type of the
identified video source. In one example, this may involve the automation system determining
that the identified video source is a newsroom production system based on the video source
identifier having a particular characteristic (e.g., a particular prefix) or based on the video source
identifier being a predetermined video source identifier.

                                                  20
[0087] At block 408, the method involves the automation system using the determined type of
the identified video source as a basis to select a DVE. This may involve the automation system
using mapping data to map a determined type of a video source to a particular DVE. For
example, mapping data may map a determined type of newsroom production system to a DVE
that is designed such that, running the selected DVE causes a stunt switcher to generate a
modified version of the input video stream by overlaying content on video content represented
by the input video stream without distorting the video content. In some instances, the
automation system may perform the acts at blocks 506 and 508 together by use mapping data
that maps the video source identifier to a particular DVE.
[0088] At block 410, the method involves the automation system causing a stunt switcher (or
another computing device) to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE causes
the stunt switcher to generate a modified version of an input video stream received from the
identified video source. Accordingly, in one example, the automation system may cause the
school-related alerts to be overlayed on a news program segment without distorting the news
program segment. However, the automation system may select, and cause the stunt switcher to
run, other types of DVEs depending on the determined type of video source.
[0089] In some instances, the automation system may perform the act at block 410 in response
to receiving a request from a user (e.g., a master control operator) via a user interface.
Alternatively, the automation system may perform the act based on a determination that
particular data is included in the traffic schedule, or based on some trigger event.
[0090] Also, in some instances, the automation system may cause the stunt switcher to run the
DVE at or about the time that the corresponding video content is scheduled to be broadcast.
However, in other instances, the automation system may run the DVE some amount of time
before or after that time to provide a more aesthetic transmission from a viewer's perspective.
[0091] At block 412, the method involves an encoder encoding video content represented by the
generated video stream. And at block 414, the method involves an outbound-broadcasting
device broadcasting the encoded video content such that it may be distributed to and seen by
viewers.

                                                    21
[0092] Figure 5 is a flow chart depicting acts that can be carried out in another example method.
At block 502, the example method involves an automation system (or another computing
device) accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast.
[0093] At block 504, the method involves the automation system selecting a record from the
accessed traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies video content. In one example, the
record may identify video content by including a video content identifier that identifies the
video content.
[0094] At block 506, the method involves the automation system determining a type of the
identified video content. In one example, this may involve the automation system determining
that the identified video content is a commercial based on the video content identifier having a
particular characteristic (e.g., a particular prefix) or based on the video content identifier being a
predetermined video content identifier.
[0095] At block 508, the method involves the automation system using the determined type of
the identified video content as a basis to select a DVE. This may involve the automation system
using mapping data to map a determined type of video content to a particular DVE. For
example, mapping data may map a determined type of commercial to a DVE that is designed
such that, running the selected DVE causes a stunt switcher to generate a modified version of an
input video stream by modifying original video content represented by the input video stream
such that the input video steam represents the original video content and empty video content,
and by overlaying content on the empty video content. In some instances, the automation
system may perform the acts at blocks 506 and 508 together by use mapping data that maps the
video content identifier to a particular DVE.
[0096] At block 510, the method involves the automation system causing a stunt switcher (or
another computing device) to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE causes
the stunt switcher to generate a modified version of an input video stream representing the
identified video content. Accordingly, in one example, the automation system may cause the
school-related alerts to be overlayed on empty video content below a commercial (i.e., such that
the alerts are not overlaid on the commercial itself). However, the automation system may
select, and cause the stunt switcher to run, other types of DVEs depending on the determined
type of video content.

                                                   22
[0097] In some instances, the automation system may perform the function at block 510 in
response to receiving a request from a user (e.g., a master control operator) via a user interface.
Alternatively, the automation system may perform the function based on a determination that
particular data is included in the traffic schedule, or based on some trigger event.
[0098] Also, in some instances, the automation system may cause the stunt switcher to run the
DVE at or about the time that the corresponding video content is scheduled to be broadcast, or
perhaps some time before or after that time as discussed above.
[0100] At block 512, the method involves an encoder encoding video content represented by the
generated video stream. And at block 514, the method involves an outbound-broadcasting
device broadcasting the encoded video content such that it may be distributed to and seen by
viewers.
[0101] Figure 6 is a flow chart depicting acts that can be carried out in another example method.
At block 602, the example method involves an automation system (or another computing
device) accessing data representing a traffic schedule for a television broadcast.
[0102] At block 604, the method involves the automation system selecting a record from the
accessed traffic schedule, wherein the record identifies video content. In one example, the
record may identify video content by including a video content identifier that identifies the
video content.
[0103] At block 606, the method involves the automation system determining a type of a
portion of the identified video content. In one example, this may involve the automation system
determining that the portion of identified video content is a commercial based on data that
indicates the same. For instance, such data may provide types of portions of video content
based on starting and ending times (e.g., the data may indicate that for eight minutes of video
content, the first six minutes are a portion of a show, and the last two minutes are commercials).
In one example, a user may generate this data based on an analysis of the video content. In
another example, a computing device may analyze the video content and use these analysis to
automatically generate such data.
[0104] At block 608, the method involves the automation system using the determined type of
the identified video content as a basis to select a DVE. This may involve the automation system

                                                    23
using mapping data to map a determined type of video content to a particular DVE. For
example, mapping data may map a type of commercial to a DVE that is designed such that,
running the selected DVE causes a stunt switcher to generate the modified version of an input
video stream by modifying original video content represented by the input video stream such
that the modified video steam represents the original video content and empty video content, and
by overlaying content on that empty video content. In some instances, the automation system
may perform the acts at blocks 606 and 608 together by use mapping data that maps the video
content identifier to a particular DVE.
[0105] At block 610, the method involves the automation system causing a stunt switcher (or
another computing device) to run the selected DVE, wherein running the selected DVE causes
the stunt switcher to generate a modified version of an input video stream representing the
portion of the identified video content. Accordingly, in one example, the automation system
may cause the school-related alerts to be overlayed on empty video content below a commercial
(i.e., such that the alerts are not overlaid on the commercial itself). However, the automation
system may select, and cause the stunt switcher to run, other types of DVEs depending on the
determined type of the portion of video content.
[0106] In some instances, the automation system may perform the act at block 610 in response
to receiving a request from a user (e.g., a master control operator) via a user interface.
Alternatively, the automation system may perform the act based on a determination that
particular data is included in the traffic schedule, or based on some trigger event.
[0107] Also, in some instances, the automation system may cause the stunt switcher to run the
DVE at or about the time that the corresponding video content is scheduled to be broadcast, or
perhaps some time before or after that time as discussed above.
[0108] At block 612, the method involves an encoder encoding video content represented by the
generated video stream. And at block 614, the method involves an outbound-broadcasting
device broadcasting the encoded video content such that it may be distributed to and seen by
viewers.
[0109] Figure 7 is a flow chart depicting acts that can be carried out in another example method.
At block 702, the example method involves a controller (or another computing device) making a
determination that a stunt switcher (or another computing device) is scheduled to run a first

                                                   24
DVE in connection with a first video stream. In one example, this may involve the controller
receiving an indication that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first DVE in connection
with the first video stream. The controller may receive this indication from the stunt switcher or
from an automation system for example.
[0110] In one example, the first DVE is designed such that the stunt switcher running the first
DVE causes the stunt switcher to generate a modified version of the first video stream by
overlaying first content on a first area of the video content.
[0111] At block 704, the method involves responsive to the controller making the determination
that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first DVE in connection with the first video
stream, selecting a second DVE. In one example, this may involve the controller using mapping
data to map one DVE to another DVE.
[0112] In one example, the selected second DVE is designed such that the production switcher
running the selected second DVE causes the production switcher to overlay second content on a
second area of video content represented by the second video stream, where the first area is
positioned below the second area.
[0113] At block 706, the method involves the controller causing a production switcher (or
another computing device) to run the selected second DVE, wherein running the selected second
DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first video stream by modifying a second
video stream.
[0114] Accordingly, this may allow the first content (e.g., weather information) to be "stacked"
on the second content (e.g., school-related alerts) so as to present the video content (e.g., a news
program segment), the first content, and the second content to viewers in a visually appealing
manner. However, the controller may select, and cause the production switcher to run, other
DVEs depending on, e.g., how the mapping data is configured.
[0115] In some instances, the controller may perform the act at block 706 in response to
receiving a request from a user (e.g., a technical director) via a user interface. Alternatively, the
controller may perform the act based on a determination that particular data is included in a
news program schedule, or based on some trigger event.

                                                   25
[0116] Also, in some instances, the controller and/or the automation system may cause the
production switcher and/or the stunt switcher to run their respective DVEs at or about the time
that the corresponding video content is scheduled to be broadcast, or perhaps some time before
or after that time as discussed above.
[0117] At block 708, the method involves an encoder encoding video content represented by the
generated modified version of the first video stream. And at block 710, the method involves an
outbound-broadcasting device broadcasting the encoded video content such that it may be
distributed to and seen by viewers.
IV. Example Variations
[0118] The variations described in connection with select examples of the disclosed system and
method may be applied to all other examples of the disclosed system and method. Further,
while examples of the disclosed method have been described in connection with an example
television-broadcasting system, the method may be implemented in other systems.
[0119] Also, while one or more functions or acts have been described as being performed by or
otherwise related to certain entities (e.g., the automation system 308), the functions or acts may
be performed by or otherwise related to any entity.
[0120] Further, the functions or acts need not be performed in the disclosed order, although in
some examples, an order may be preferred. Also, not all functions or acts need to be performed
to achieve the desired an advantage of the disclosed system and method, and therefore not all
functions or acts are required.
[0121] While select examples of the disclosed system and method have been described,
alterations and permutations of these examples will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the
art. Other changes, substitutions, and alterations are also possible without departing from the
disclosed system and method in its broader aspects as set forth in the following claims.

                                                   26
CLAIMS
1.     A method for use in connection with a television-broadcast system comprising a news
production system and a master control system, the method comprising:
       making a determination that a stunt switcher of the master control system is scheduled to
run a first DVE to modify a first video stream;
       responsive to making the determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to modify the
first video stream, selecting a second DVE to run on a production switcher of the news
production system by using mapping data that maps the first DVE to the second DVE; and
       causing the production switcher to run the selected second DVE, wherein running the
selected second DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first video stream by
modifying an input video stream.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein making the determination that the stunt switcher is
scheduled to run the first DVE to modify the first video stream comprises receiving an indication
that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first DVE to modify the first video stream.
3.     The method of claim 1, wherein the generated first video stream represents a news
program segment.
4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the selected second DVE is designed such that the
production switcher running the selected second DVE causes the production switcher to overlay
content on an area of video content represented by the input video stream.
5.     The method of claim 4, wherein the content is first content and the area is a first area, the
method further comprising:
       causing the stunt switcher to run the first DVE, wherein running the first DVE causes the
stunt switcher to generate a modified version of the first video stream by overlaying second
content on a second area of the video content.
6.     The method of claim 5, wherein the first area is positioned below the second area.
7.     The method of claim 5, wherein the first content comprises school-related content.

                                                     27
8.     The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the input video stream to be transmitted
to the production switcher.
9.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
       encoding video content represented by the generated modified version of the first video
stream; and
       broadcasting the encoded video content.
10.    A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon program
instructions that when executed by a processor cause performance of a set of acts comprising:
       making a determination that a stunt switcher of a master control system is scheduled to run
a first DVE to modify a first video stream;
       responsive to making the determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to modify the
first video stream, selecting a second DVE to run on a production switcher of a news production
system by using mapping data that maps the first DVE to the second DVE; and
       causing the production switcher to run the selected second DVE, wherein running the
selected second DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first video stream by
modifying an input video stream.
11.    The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein making the
determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first DVE to modify the first video
stream comprises receiving an indication that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first DVE
to modify the first video stream.
12.    The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the selected
second DVE is designed such that the production switcher running the selected second DVE
causes the production switcher to overlay content on an area of video content represented by the
input video stream.
13.    The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the content is
first content and the area is a first area, the set of acts further comprising:
       causing the stunt switcher to run the first DVE, wherein running the first DVE causes the
stunt switcher to generate a modified version of the first video stream by overlaying second
content on a second area of the video content.

                                                  28
14.    The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the first area is
positioned below the second area.
15.    The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the first
content comprises school-related content.
16.    The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the set of acts further
comprising causing the second video stream to be transmitted to the production switcher.
17.    The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, the set of acts further
comprising:
       encoding video content represented by the generated modified version of the first video
stream; and
       broadcasting the encoded video content.
18.    A television-broadcast system comprising:
       a production switcher of a news production system, the production switcher configured to
modify an input video stream to generate a first video stream; and
       a control configured for:
       making a determination that a stunt switcher of a master control system is scheduled to run
a first DVE to modify the first video stream;
       responsive to making the determination that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first
DVE in connection with the first video stream, selecting a second DVE to run on the production
switcher by using mapping data that maps the first DVE to the second DVE; and
       causing the production switcher to run the selected second DVE, wherein running the
selected second DVE causes the production switcher to generate the first video stream by
modifying the input video stream.
19.    The television-broadcast system of claim 18, wherein making the determination that the
stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first DVE to modify the first video stream comprises
receiving an indication that the stunt switcher is scheduled to run the first DVE to modify the
first video stream.

                                                29
20.   The television-broadcast system of claim 18, wherein the selected second DVE is designed
such that the production switcher running the selected second DVE causes the production
switcher to overlay content on an area of video content represented by the input video stream.
                             Tribune Broadcasting Company, LLC
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

